BECKER, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 301, passed 4-21-2026
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   
Appendix:   Notice of code violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Becker,
Minnesota, as presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or
other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in this code may
also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Sherburne County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting the code
of ordinances, all future supplements are adopted as if they had been in
existence at the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention
expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Clerk or City Council shall have the
authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk and any city official or employee designated by this
code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with the
permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident of
a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit, at reasonable times, inspections of or entrance
to the property by the City Clerk or any other authorized city officer or
employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given
to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property,
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or
other person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Clerk to object to the termination before it occurs, subject to
appeal of the Clerk’s decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or
special meeting.
   (E)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable cause
exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting the
inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only to
determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may be in the form established by the city. The resolution may
not proscribe administrative penalties for traffic offenses designated by M.S.
§ 169.999, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk or other person
giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, a written
notice must be provided of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to
the person who is alleged to have violated the code. The person giving notice
may request the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation
directly to the City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. A
sample notice is contained in the Appendix to this chapter. In the sole
discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the time
for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not requested by
the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the administrative
penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to the alleged
violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the
alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the
situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time specified in the
notice, the payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
APPENDIX
NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                 
of the City Code relating
to                                                                                                                                     
.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:                                                               
   (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City Seal
§ 11.01 CITY SEAL.
   All contracts to which the city is a party shall be sealed with the City
Seal. The Seal shall be kept in the custody of the City Administrator or City
Clerk and affixed by him or her. The official City Seal shall be a circular
disc having engraved thereupon “CITY OF BECKER” and such other words, figures
or emblems as the Council may, by resolution, designate.
(Prior Code, § 2.08) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000; Ord. 61, passed 8-25-2001)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   MUNICIPAL POLICIES
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; FEES
      
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   City Council meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Minutes
   
30.04   Order of business
   
30.05   Voting
   
30.06   Ordinance, resolutions, motions, petitions and communications
   
30.07   Suspension or amendment of rules
   
30.08   Compensation of Mayor and Council members
   
30.09   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.10   Quorum for conducting business
   
30.11   Fees and charges
   
30.12   Application of state laws
§ 30.01 CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held
at least once each month, at a date, time and place as established by the City
Council. Any regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next
following business day at the same time and place. All meetings, including
special and adjourned meetings, shall be held in the city hall unless the City
Council decides otherwise at a prior meeting, or meeting in the city hall is
impossible.
   (B)   Public meetings. All City Council meetings, including special,
emergency and adjourned meetings and meetings of City Council committees, as
well as meetings of City Commissions and Boards, shall be conducted in
accordance with the Minnesota Open Meeting Law, M.S. Chapter 13D, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City
Council. In the absence of the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the
absence of both, the City Clerk shall call the meeting to order and shall
preside until the Council members present at the meeting choose one of their
number to act temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce any
rules of procedure adopted by the City Council, and determine without debate,
subject to the final decision of the City Council on appeal, all questions of
procedure and order.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. Any member may appeal to the City Council a ruling
of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once
solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain the
ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion. The
appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present, including the presiding officer.
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Generally. Minutes of each City Council meeting shall be kept by the
City Clerk or, in the City Clerk’s absence, by the Deputy City Clerk. In the
absence of both, the presiding officer shall appoint a secretary pro tem.
Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be recorded in full in the minutes
if they appear in other permanent records of the City Clerk and can be
accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
form, shall be signed by the City Clerk. At the next regular City Council
meeting, approval of the minutes shall be considered by the City Council. The
minutes need not be read aloud, but the presiding officer shall call for any
additions or corrections. If there is an objection, the City Council shall vote
upon the minutes.
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the City Council shall convene at
the time and place appointed therefor. City Council business shall cover the
following items unless varied by the presiding officer or by-laws or other
procedures adopted by Council resolution:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Public hearings;
      (4)   Approval of minutes;
      (5)   Petitions, requests and communications;
      (6)   Ordinances and resolution;
      (7)   Reports of officers, boards and committees;
      (8)   Unfinished business;
      (9)   New business;
      (10)   Miscellaneous; and
      (11)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Petitions and agenda. Petitions and other papers addressed to the City
Council shall be read or copies distributed by the City Clerk upon presentation
of the same to the City Council. All persons desiring to present new business
before the City Council shall inform the City Clerk thereof at least 72 hours
before new business is to be heard. The City Clerk may prepare an agenda of the
new business for submission to the City Council on or before the time of the
next regular meeting.
§ 30.05 VOTING.
   The votes of the Council members on any question may be taken in any manner
which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of the
Council members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each Council member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except
for payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute. If any Council
member is present but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or her name, shall
be marked “Present-Not Voting.”
§ 30.06 ORDINANCE, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the City Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk,
and filed by the City Clerk in the ordinance or resolution book. Proof of
publication of every ordinance shall be attached and filed with the ordinance.
   (B)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give
the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or code number of the
ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. Each ordinance or
resolution amending an existing ordinance or resolution or part thereof shall
set forth in full each amended section or subdivision as it will read with the
amendment.
§ 30.07 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members
present and voting.
§ 30.08 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The compensation of the Mayor and the compensation of each Council member
shall be established from time to time by City Council ordinance pursuant to
M.S. § 415.11, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 30.09 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the city shall be compensated at a rate as
established from time to time by the City Council.
§ 30.10 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire City Council,
including the Mayor. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the City Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the City Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the City Council by
a majority vote of those present.
§ 30.11 FEES AND CHARGES.
   The City Council may enact an ordinance establishing those fees and charges
that are authorized by this code. Until that ordinance becomes effective, all
fees and charges established by ordinance or resolution prior to the adoption
of this code shall remain in effect. All fees and charges established by the
ordinance establishing fees and charges may be amended from time to time by
amendment of that ordinance.
§ 30.12 APPLICATION OF STATE LAWS.
   The provisions of the Government Data Practices Act, M.S. Chapter 13, the
Opening Meeting Law, M.S. Chapter 13D, and the laws relating to Gifts to Local
Officials, M.S. § 471.895, as these laws may be amended from time to time,
apply to the City Council and all boards and commissions of this city and their
members.
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Reference to a public official
   
31.02   City Administrator
   
31.03   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.04   Interim emergency succession
   
31.05   Salaries and compensation
§ 31.01 REFERENCE TO A PUBLIC OFFICIAL.
   Wherever an appointed public official is referred to in the city code, the
reference shall include the public official or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 1.11) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995)
§ 31.02 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Position established. The position of City Administrator is
established.
   (B)   Appointment and removal. The City Administrator shall be appointed by
the Council for an indefinite term. The City Administrator shall not be removed
except by affirmative action taken twice by the Council at two regular meetings
held within 60 days. The action taken at the first meeting shall be an
expression of intent to vote thereon at the second regular meeting not to be
held sooner than ten days thereafter. If, at any time after the City
Administrator has completed six months of continuous service, the Council takes
this action, the City Administrator may within 30 days after written notice of
removal, request a public hearing which the Council must grant and which must
be started within 30 days after the request. The Council shall make a
determination to either affirm or rescind the decision to remove the City
Administrator on or before the thirtieth day following the completion of the
public hearing requested by the City Administrator.
   (C)   Qualifications. The City Administrator shall be selected solely on the
basis of executive and administrative qualifications with special reference
both to experience, formal education, as well as knowledge of accepted
practices pertaining to the duties of the office.
   (D)   Duties. The City Administrator shall be the chief administrative
officer of the city and shall be responsible to the Council for the proper
administration of all affairs of the city and, to that end, shall have the
power and shall be required to:
      (1)   Supervise the administration of all departments, offices and
divisions of the city, except as otherwise provided by law and carry out any
other responsibilities placed under his or her jurisdiction by this chapter or
by subsequent Council action. He or she or his or her delegate shall interview
and screen all prospective city employees as permitted by law and shall make
recommendations for hiring and terminating employees. Periodic reports shall be
submitted to the Council;
      (2)   Develop and issue all administrative rules, regulations and
procedures necessary to ensure the proper functioning of all departments and
offices under his or her jurisdiction as permitted by law;
      (3)   Prepare and submit an annual budget to the Council and keep the
Council advised of the financial condition of the city and make recommendations
as he or she may from time to time determine desirable and necessary;
      (4)   Attend and participate in discussions at all meetings of the
Council and other official bodies as directed by the Council. The City
Administrator shall also represent the city at all official or semi-official
functions as may be directed by the Council and not in conflict with the
prerogatives of the Mayor. He or she shall be entitled to notice of all regular
and special meetings of the Council;
      (5)   See that all laws and provisions of the city code are duly
enforced;
      (6)   Make or let purchases and contracts when the amount thereof does
not exceed $5,000. Make or let purchases and contracts for previously budgeted
items after obtaining two or more quotations when the amount does not exceed
$25,000. Non-budgeted items greater than $5,000 need Council approval. Obtain
Council approval to seek bids/quotes for purchases greater than $25,000. City
Council approves all quotes/bids for contracts greater than $25,000. Obtain
Council approval to seek bids, approve specifications and award contracts or
purchases for all budgeted items above $100,000. Amounts in excess of $100,000
require Council action to award contracts or purchases for expenditures
requiring competitive bids regardless of being a budgeted item or not;
      (7)   Recommend from time to time the adoption of measures as he or she
may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety and welfare of the
community or for the improvement of the administration; and
      (8)   Perform other duties as may be required by the Council and
consistent with state statutes and the city code.
   (E)   Bond required. The City Administrator shall furnish a surety bond to
be approved by the Council, this bond to be conditioned on the faithful
performance of his or her duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the
city.
   (F)   Compensation. The City Administrator shall receive compensation as the
Council shall fix from time to time by resolution or motion.
(Prior Code, § 2.12) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000; Ord. 61, passed 8-27-2001; Ord.
123, passed 12-1-2007; Ord. 160, passed 5-7-2012)
§ 31.03 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Separate offices. The offices of the Clerk and Treasurer which,
pursuant to the provisions of M.S. § 412.591, as it may be amended from time to
time, were heretofore combined by ordinance, are reestablished as separate
offices. Pursuant to the provisions of M.S. § 412.581, as it may be amended
from time to time, applicable to the city operating under Optional Plan A, as
defined in state law, the Clerk and Treasurer shall be appointed by the Council
for indefinite terms.
   (B)   Treasurer general duties. The general duties of the Treasurer shall
include, but not be limited to, the following.
      (1)   He or she shall receive and safely keep all monies belonging to the
city and shall promptly enter into a book provided for the purpose of an
account of all monies received and disbursed by him or her as Treasurer,
showing the source and objects thereof with the date of each transaction.
      (2)   He or she shall pay out money only upon Council approval after
approval by authorized officers of city. The invoices or other documents when
paid shall be retained by him or her as vouchers and shall be given to the
Council as needed.
      (3)   He or she shall deliver to his or her successor all books, papers
and monies belonging to the city.
      (4)   He or she shall, immediately after the close of the calendar year
and completion of the annual audit, present to the City Council and make
available for public inspection the audit for the year.
   (C)   Clerk general duties. The general duties of the Clerk shall include,
but not be limited to, the following.
      (1)   Elections. The Clerk shall give the required notice of each regular
and special election, record the proceedings thereof, notify officials of their
elections or appointments to office and certify to the County Auditor all
appointments and the results of municipal elections.
      (2)   Records. The Clerk shall take minutes and keep a minute book,
noting all proceedings of the Council. Resolutions adopted by Council shall be
kept in a book and maintained for reference. The City Clerk shall maintain all
records of the city.
      (3)   Ordinances. The Clerk shall be responsible for maintaining all
ordinances passed by the city and maintenance of the code of ordinances book.
      (4)   Others. The Clerk shall sign all official papers of the city; the
Clerk shall also post and publish notices, ordinances as may be required; shall
periodically review fees; make certified copies or other official documentation
as required; and perform other duties as are required by law.
(Prior Code, § 2.13) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000)
§ 31.04 INTERIM EMERGENCY SUCCESSION.
   (A)   Purpose. Due to the existing possibility of a nuclear attack or a
natural disaster requiring a declaration of a state of emergency, it is found
urgent and necessary to ensure the continuity of duly elected and lawful
leadership of the city to provide for the continuity of the government and the
emergency interim succession of key governmental officials by providing a
method for temporary emergency appointments to their offices.
   (B)   Succession to local offices. In the event of a nuclear attack upon the
United States or a natural disaster affecting the vicinity of the city, the
Mayor, Council and City Administrator shall be forthwith notified by any one of
these persons and by any means available to gather at the City Hall. In the
event that safety or convenience dictate, an alternative place of meeting may
be designated. Those gathered shall proceed as follows.
      (1)   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number,
they shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary to preside and keep minutes,
respectively.
      (2)   They shall review and record the specific facts relating to the
nuclear attack or natural disaster and injuries to persons or damage to
property already done, or the imminence thereof.
      (3)   They may, based on these facts, declare a state of emergency.
      (4)    By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number,
they shall fill all positions on the Council, (including the office of Mayor)
of those persons upon whom notice could not be served or who are unable to be
present.
      (5)   The interim successors shall serve until such time as the duly
elected official is again available and returns to his or her position, or the
state of emergency has passed and a successor is designated and qualifies as
required by law, whichever shall occur first.
   (C)   Duties of the Interim Emergency Council. The Interim Emergency Council
shall exercise the powers and duties of their offices, and appoint other key
government officials to serve during the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 2.14) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995)
§ 31.05 SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Salaries of Mayor and Council members. Salaries of the Mayor and
Council are established as follows, which amounts are deemed reasonable.
      (1)   The annual salary of the Mayor shall be $5,700, to be paid in
monthly increments of $475.
      (2)   The annual salary of each Council member shall be $4,200, to be
paid in monthly increments of $350.
      (3)   In addition to these annual salaries, the Mayor and each Council
member shall be compensated the following:
         (a)   A meeting stipend in the amount of $150 per month as
compensation for all committee and city designated meetings; and
         (b)   Mileage for City Council approved out of town meetings or
training events shall be reimbursed at the rate established by resolution of
the City Council for mileage reimbursement. OUT OF TOWN MEETINGS OR TRAINING
are events that occur outside the corporate boundaries of the city. Mileage
shall be calculated using City Hall as the beginning and termination point for
all travel.
      (4)   The provisions provided for herein shall be effective January l,
2021 and shall continue in effect until modified.
(Prior Code, § 2.15)
   (B)   Compensation of boards, commissions and committees. Members of boards,
commissions and committees appointed by the Council shall be set from time to
time by resolution of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.16)
   (C)   Workers’ compensation.
      (1)   Contractors. The city shall not enter into any contract for doing
public work before receiving from all other contracting parties acceptable
evidence of compliance with the workers’ compensation insurance coverage
requirement of state statutes.
      (2)   City officers. All officers of the city elected or appointed for a
regular term of office or to complete the unexpired portion of any regular term
shall be included in the definition of “employee”, as defined in state statutes
relating to coverage for purposes of workers’ compensation entitlement.
(Prior Code, § 2.18)
(Ord. passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 168, passed 4-29-2013; Ord. 178, passed 5-26-2015;
Ord. 229, passed 10-26-2020)
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Departments
   
32.01   Departments generally
   
32.02   Public Safety Department
   
32.03   Fire Protection Services
   
32.04   Public Works Department
   
32.05   Parks and Recreation Department
Boards and Commissions
   
32.20   Boards and commissions generally
   
32.21   Planning Commission
   
32.22   Board of Adjustments
   
32.23   Golf Course Committee
   
32.24   Park and Recreation Commission
   
32.25   City Tree Board
   
32.26   Joint Advisory Fire Board
   
32.27   Economic Development Authority
**** DEPARTMENTS ****
§ 32.01 DEPARTMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Control. All departments of the city are under the overall control of
the Council. Heads of all departments are responsible to the Council and
subject to its supervision and direction, except as otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   Appointment. All department heads and employees shall be appointed by
the Council. All appointments shall be for an indeterminate term and subject to
any applicable civil service regulations in effect in the city.
   (C)   Compensation. All wages and salaries shall be fixed and determined by
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.30)
§ 32.02 PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. A Public Safety Department is created for the purpose
of law enforcement.
   (B)   Organization. The Public Safety Department shall be under the direct
supervision and control of the Public Safety Director who, as to all matters
relating thereto, shall be the Chief of Police. The Public Safety Director
shall be assisted by other officers and employees as the Council may deem
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 2.31)
§ 32.03 FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES.
   The city is authorized to enter into an agreement under the Joint Powers
Act, being M.S. § 471.59, as it may be amended from time to time, creating a
Joint Advisory Fire Board to establish and administer a volunteer fire
department. The city is authorized to participate in that arrangement and
cooperate with the Joint Advisory Fire Board by appointing two people to serve
on the Board and contributing to the economic needs of the Board in amounts and
percentages as the Council deems appropriate in light of the fire protection
services received by the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.32)
§ 32.04 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   A Public Works Department is established. The head of the Department shall
be the Superintendent of Public Works. The city water, sewerage systems and
streets shall be under the direct supervision of the Superintendent and he or
she shall be responsible for and have custody of all property of the
Department. The Superintendent shall make and file reports as may be requested
by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.33)
§ 32.05 PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   A Parks and Recreation Department is established. The head of this
Department shall be the Director of Parks and Recreation. The community center
and all park and recreational activities shall be under the direct supervision
of the Director, and he or she shall be responsible for and have custody of all
property of the Department. The Parks and Recreation Department shall take no
action with respect to the City Golf Course, the operation of which is to be
overseen by the Golf Course Committee, as established hereinafter.
(Prior Code, § 2.34) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995)
**** BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS ****
§ 32.20 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS GENERALLY.
   Except as otherwise provided, this section shall apply to all boards and
commissions.
   (A)   Appointment and composition of members. Unless otherwise provided by
other provisions of the city code, all board and commission appointments
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be made by the Mayor or the
Council, as the case may be, prior to the expiration of an existing term. No
more than two Council members may be appointed to any one board or commission.
No appointed board or commission member shall be an employee of the city, but
an ex officio member may be so employed. The City Administrator shall be an ex
officio member of all boards and commissions; provided, that if he or she is
unable to attend a meeting or act in the capacity of the membership, he or she
may be represented by an assistant or some person duly authorized by the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Term. The term of each appointee shall be established and stated at
the time of his or her appointment, and terms of present board and commission
members may be reestablished and changed so as to give effect to this section.
New appointees shall assume office on the first day of the first month
following their appointment and qualification, or on the first day of the first
month following the expiration of the prior term and qualification, whichever
shall occur last. Provided, however, that all appointees to board and
commissions shall hold office until their successor is appointed and qualified.
All vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as for an expired term, but
the appointment shall be effective immediately when made and only for the
unexpired term.
   (C)   Compensation and reimbursement. Board and commission members shall
serve with compensation as shall be determined from time to time by the Council
and shall be reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in the performance
of their duties when the expenses have been authorized by the Council before
they were incurred.
   (D)   Officers; meetings. A chairperson shall be chosen from and by the
board or commission membership annually to serve for one year. Provided,
however, that no chairperson shall be elected who has not completed at least
one year as a member of the board or commission. Each board and commission
shall hold its regular meeting at a time established and approved by each board
and commission.
   (E)   Removal. Any board or commission member may be removed by the Council
for failure to effectively discharge the duties of the member’s particular
office, and his or her position filled as any other vacancy.
      (1)   Failure to attend meetings. It shall be considered grounds
warranting removal for any board or commission member to fail to attend,
without prior notice to the city official assigned to the particular board or
commission, three consecutive meetings, or any four meetings within any 12-
month period. The removal of a member for failure to attend meetings shall be
commenced by the city giving the member notice of its intent to replace the
member, and the giving of the notice shall start the notice period for
removal.   
      (2)   Notice period. The removal of a board or commission member shall
become effective 30 days after the occurrence of the earlier of the following:
         (a)   A statement of the grounds warranting removal is provided to the
affected member; or
         (b)   Commencement of the notice period pursuant to division (E)(1)
above, for failure to attend meetings.
      (3)   Hearing and decision. If no hearing is requested within 30 days,
the decision shall become final. Where a member is removed, the findings of the
Council, together with the record of the appeal hearing, if any, shall be filed
with the Clerk. If a written statement alleging grounds warranting immediate
removal is submitted to the Council against a member, that member may be
temporarily suspended pending the permanent removal procedure set forth above,
but if the Council determines that those allegations have not been
substantiated, the member must be immediately reinstated.
(Prior Code, § 2.40)
§ 32.21 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. A Planning Commission is established.
The Commission shall be composed of five members appointed by the City Council
who shall serve staggered three-year terms. An alternate member may also be
appointed by the City Council. This alternate member shall be entitled to
participate in discussion. The City Attorney, by reason of his or her position,
shall be an ex officio member.
   (B)   Members. The members appointed by the City Council shall each have one
vote on matters before the Commission. The alternate members, if one is
appointed, shall be authorized one vote on matters before the Commission if a
Planning Commission member is absent. Members shall be subject to removal
pursuant to §
32.20(E).
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Commission shall have all the powers and duties
defined or granted in the statutes and the city code relating to planning,
zoning and subdivision regulation and shall act in an advisory capacity to the
Council in all of these areas.
(Prior Code, § 2.41) (Ord. 60, passed 8-11-2002; Ord. 95, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 32.22 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. A Board of Adjustments is established.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the Board are set forth in
the zoning chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.42)
§ 32.23 GOLF COURSE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Establishment. There is created a Golf Course Committee of the City
Council. The Golf Course Committee will be a reporting body on the monthly,
quarterly and annual performance of Pebble Creek Golf Course. The Golf Course
Committee will also act as an advisory board on policy issues.
   (B)   Membership and term. The Golf Course Committee shall consist of the
following members:
      (1)   Two City Council members, who shall be appointed by motion of the
City Council;
      (2)   The head of golf operations; and
      (3)   The City Administrator or his or her representative.
   (C)   Golf Course Task Force and term. During any building, expansion or
special projects at the Golf Course, the Committee may appoint a Golf Course
Task Force to deal with a “project”. The Golf Course Task Force shall be
appointed and activated by the Committee and shall serve for a specified period
of time dealing with the specified project. Once the project is completed to
the satisfaction of the Committee, the Golf Course Task Force shall be
dissolved.
   (D)   Committee officers. The Committee shall elect from its membership a
Chairperson and Acting Chairperson who serve on an annual basis. The secretary
shall be the City Administrator or designated alternate, who may or may not be
a member of the Committee.
   (E)   Meetings. The meetings of the Golf Course Committee shall be held at
the times and places as may be determined by the rules of the Committee. In
addition, the Chairperson may call a meeting upon the concurrence of another
Committee member and upon proper notice being given to all Committee members.
At least one meeting shall be held in each calendar month during the golf
course playing season.
   (F)   Quorum. Three or more Committee members present at a meeting shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (G)   Duties. The Committee shall have the following duties:
      (1)   To study and determine the strategic direction of the golf course;
      (2)   To act as a liaison and make recommendations on policy issues to
the City Council;
      (3)    To submit to the City Council on an annual basis the budget for
revenues and expenditures for the operations of the Golf Course;
      (4)   To plan for and activate the Golf Course Task Force in the event a
need has been determined for a special project as identified in division (C)
above; and
      (5)   Other duties which may be lawfully assigned to the Golf Committee
by the City Council.
   (H)   Compensation and expenses. City Council members assigned to the Golf
Committee are to be paid in the same manner that they are paid for other
meetings Council. The remaining committee members will receive no additional
compensation for meeting attendance. Expenses incurred by members are
reimbursable in accordance with city policy. Golf Course Task Force members
shall be paid in conformance with city policy as it relates to per meeting
compensation for all committee, commission and board members.
(Prior Code, § 2.43) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000; Ord. 61, passed 8-25-2001; Ord.
123, passed 12-1-2007; Ord. 206, passed 11-12-2018)
§ 32.24 PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. An Advisory Park and Recreation
Commission composed of five members is established. Its members shall serve
staggered three-year terms.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Advisory Park and Recreation Commission shall
have the power and duty to advise, adopt and maintain parks and playgrounds and
to recommend expansions and plans for the development of the park system to the
Council. The Commission may enter into necessary contracts subject to Council
approval for the maintenance and care of park property and is authorized to
receive and accept, in the name of the city, gifts or devises of real or
personal property to be used for park purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2.44)
§ 32.25 CITY TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. A City Tree Board composed of the
members of the Park and Recreation Commission, is established, and shall hold
office concurrently with their terms as members of this Commission.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The City Tree Board shall study, investigate,
counsel, develop and administer a written plan for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs, in
parks, along streets and in other public areas. The plan shall be presented to
the Council, and following the review and approval by the Council, shall
constitute the official comprehensive City Tree Plan for the city. The City
Tree Board, when requested by the Council, shall consider, investigate, make
findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or questions coming
within the scope of its work.
   (C)   Officers. The City Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its
own rules and regulations and keep minutes of its proceedings. A majority of
the members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to conflict with M.S. §§ 412.501 to
412.531, as they may be amended from time to time, respecting the operation of
a municipal park board.
(Prior Code, § 2.45)
§ 32.26 JOINT ADVISORY FIRE BOARD.
   The Council shall appoint two members to the Joint Advisory Fire Board
established by the City and the Township of Becker under the Joint Powers Act,
being M.S. § 471.59, as it may be amended from time to time. At least one of
the two members shall be a member of the Council. Joint Advisory Fire Board
members who are Council members shall be appointed to one-year terms, and Joint
Advisory Fire Board members who are not Council members shall be appointed to
three-year terms.
(Prior Code, § 2.46)
§ 32.27 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Establishment of Commission.
      (1)   There is established, pursuant to M.S. Chapter 469, as it may be
amended from time to time, an Economic Development Authority, (hereinafter
referred to as the “Authority”) which shall serve to encourage, attract,
promote and develop economically sound industry and commerce within the city.
      (2)   All modifications to the city resolution establishing this section
must be made by written resolution of the Council after notice is given and a
public hearing conducted.
   (B)   Commissioners. The Authority shall consist of five commissioners, two
of whom must be members of the City Council, and up to one may be a resident of
Becker Township.
      (1)   Appointment and terms. The members shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council. Those initially appointed shall be
appointed for terms of one, two, three, four, five and six years respectively.
Thereafter, all members shall be appointed for six-year terms.
      (2)   Vacancies. A vacancy is created in the membership of the Authority
when a Council member of the Authority ends Council membership. Vacancies and
expired terms shall be filled annually by appointments of the Mayor approved by
the Council. The City Council may set the term of the commissioners who are
members of the City Council to coincide with their term of office as members of
the City Council.
      (3)   Compensation and reimbursement. A commissioner, including the
president, shall be paid for attending each regular or special meeting of the
Authority in an amount determined by the City Council. In addition to receiving
pay for meetings, the commissioners may be reimbursed for actual expenses
incurred in doing official business of the Authority. All money paid for
compensation or reimbursement must be paid from the Authority’s budget.
      (4)   Removal for cause. A commissioner may be removed by the City
Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty or misconduct in office. A
commissioner shall be removed only after a hearing. A copy of the charges must
be given to the commissioner at least ten days before the hearing. The
commissioner must be given an opportunity to be heard in person or by counsel
at the hearing. When written charges have been submitted against a
commissioner, the City Council may temporarily suspend the commissioner. If the
City Council finds that those charges have not been substantiated, the
commissioner shall be immediately reinstated. If a commissioner is removed, a
record of the proceedings, together with the charges and findings, shall be
filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   Officers. The Authority shall elect a president and vice president. A
member may not serve as president and vice president at the same time. The
Authority shall elect the president annually. An appointee of the city shall
act as secretary, and the Treasurer for the city shall perform the duties of
the Treasurer for the Authority.
   (D)   Organizational matters. The Authority shall adopt by-laws and rules to
govern its procedures and for the transaction of its business and shall keep a
record of attendance at its meetings and of resolutions, transactions, findings
and determinations showing the vote of each member on each question requiring a
vote, or if absent or abstaining from voting, indicating this fact. The records
of the Authority shall be a public record, except for those items classified by
law as non-public data. The Authority shall adopt an official seal.
   (E)   Powers. The Authority is a separate, viable entity, vested with the
following powers, each subject to prior approval by the Council.
      (1)   Establishment. The Authority may create and define the boundaries
of economic development districts.
      (2)   Acquire property. The Authority may acquire by lease, purchase,
gift, devise or condemnation proceedings the right, title and interest in
property needed to create economic development districts.
      (3)   Options. The Authority may sign options to purchase, sell or lease
property.
      (4)    Eminent domain. The Authority may exercise the right of eminent
domain under M.S. Chapter 117, as it may be amended from time to time, to
acquire property.
      (5)   Contracts. The Authority may make contracts for the purpose of
economic development, including contracting for services of consultants,
agents, public accountants and other persons needed to perform its duties and
exercise its powers.
      (6)   Limited partner. The Authority may be a limited partner in a
partnership whose purpose is consistent with the Authority’s purpose.
      (7)   Rights and easements. The Authority may acquire rights or an
easement for a term of years or perpetually for development of an economic
development district.
      (8)   Issuance of bonds. The Authority may issue general obligation bonds
and revenue bonds when authorized by the City Council and pledge as security
for the bonds the full faith, credit and resources of the city of the revenues
as may be generated by projects undertaken by the Authority.
      (9)   Supplies, materials and attorney. The City Council shall make
available to the Authority the appropriations as it deems fit for salaries,
fees and expenses necessary in the conduct of its work. The Authority may
purchase the supplies and materials it needs to carry out its duties, and may
use the facilities of the city’s Purchasing Department in connection with
construction work and to purchase equipment, supplies or materials. The
Authority may use the services of the City Attorney for its legal needs.
      (10)   Study needs. An Authority may study and analyze economic
development needs in the city and ways to meet those needs.
      (11)   Other powers granted by statute. The Authority may exercise any
other power enunciated by M.S. Chapter 469, as it may be amended from time to
time, which has not been limited or removed by the Council under this section
as modified from time to time by resolution.
      (12)   Other powers granted by the City Council. The Authority may
exercise any other power granted by the Council under a resolution modifying
this section.
   (F)   Limitations of power. The actions of the Authority is limited as
follows.
      (1)   The Authority may not exercise any specific powers contained in
M.S. §§ 469.001 to 469.047, 469.090 to 469.108, and 469.124 to 469.134, as they
may be amended from time to time, without the prior approval of the City
Council.
       (2)    Except when previously pledged by the Authority, the Council may,
by resolution, require the Authority to transfer any portion of the reserves
generated by its activities that the Council determines are not necessary for
the successful operation of the Authority, to the debt service funds of the
city, to be used solely to reduce tax levies for bonded indebtedness of the
city.
      (3)   The sale of all bonds or obligations issued by the Authority shall
be approved by the Council before issuance.
      (4)   The Authority shall follow the budget process for city departments
as provided by the city and as implemented by the Council and Mayor.
      (5)   All official actions of the Authority must be consistent with the
adopted Comprehensive Plan of the city and any official controls implementing
the Comprehensive Plan.
      (6)   The Authority shall submit all planned activities for influencing
the action of other governmental agencies, subdivisions or bodies to the
Council for approval.
      (7)   The Authority shall submit its administrative structure and
management practices to the Council for approval.
      (8)   The Authority’s powers can be further limited by modifications of
this section through resolutions adopted in accordance with division (A)(1)
above.
   (G)   Cooperation of city, authority’s entrance upon lands and the like. All
city employees shall, upon request and within a reasonable time, furnish to the
Authority or its employees or agents the available records or information as
may be required in its work. The Authority, or its employees or agents, may, in
the performance of official duties, enter upon lands and make examinations or
surveys in the same manner as other authorized city agents or employees, and
shall have other powers as are required for the performance of official
functions in carrying out the purposes of this section.
(Prior Code, § 2.47) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 171, passed 1-27-2014)
CHAPTER 33: MUNICIPAL POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Disposal of abandoned vehicles, unclaimed and excess property
   
33.02   Personnel rules and regulations
   
33.03   Deferment of special assessments
   
33.04   Partial prepayment of special assessments
   
33.05   Franchises
   
33.06   Criminal background investigations
   
33.07   City office elections; absentee ballots
§ 33.01 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES, UNCLAIMED AND EXCESS PROPERTY.
   (A)   Disposal of abandoned motor vehicles.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, as defined in M.S. Chapter
169, as it may be amended from time to time, that has remained for a period of
more than 48 hours on public property illegally or lacking vital component
parts, or has remained for a period of more than 48 hours on private property
without the consent of the person in control of the property, or in an
inoperable condition such that it has no substantial potential further use
consistent with its usual function unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or
storage building. It shall also mean a motor vehicle voluntarily surrendered by
its owner to and accepted by the city. A classic car or pioneer car, as defined
in M.S. § 168.10, as it may be amended from time to time, is not considered an
ABANDONED VEHICLE. The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if
any, of the ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE and to all readily identifiable lien
holders of record. If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty
the identity and address of the registered owner and all lien holders, the
notice shall be published once in the official newspaper. Published notices may
be grouped together for convenience and economy.
      (2)   Right to reclaim.
         (a)   The owner or any lien holder of an abandoned motor vehicle shall
have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the city upon payment of all towing
and storage charges resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15
days after the date of the notice required by this division (A)(2).
         (b)   Nothing in this division (A)(2) shall be construed to impair any
lien of a garage keeper under the laws of this state, or the right of the lien
holder to foreclose. For the purposes of this division (A)(2), GARAGE KEEPER is
an operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle
storage facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair
or maintenance of motor vehicles.
      (3)   Public sale.
         (a)   An abandoned motor vehicle and contents taken into custody and
not reclaimed under division (A)(2) above shall be sold to the highest bidder
at public auction or sale, following one notice published at least seven days
prior to the auction or sale. The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form
prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title
to dispose of the vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to
register the vehicle and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all
liens and claims of ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of
title, it must receive a motor vehicle safety check.
         (b)   From the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle, the
city shall reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and storing the
vehicle, and all administrative, notice and publication costs incurred pursuant
to this division (A)(3). Any remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall be
held for the owner of the vehicle or entitled lien holder for 90 days and then
shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city.
      (4)   Contracts and disposal.
         (a)   The city may contract with any qualified person for collection,
storage, incineration, volume reduction, transportation or other services
necessary to prepare abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal for
recycling or other methods of disposal.
         (b)   Where the city enters into a contract with a person duly
licensed by the State Pollution Control Agency, the Agency shall review the
contract to determine whether it conforms to the Agency’s plan for solid waste
disposal. A contract that does so conform may be approved by the Agency. Where
a contract has been approved, the Agency may reimburse the city for the costs
incurred under the contract which have not been reimbursed.
         (c)   If the city utilizes its own equipment and personnel for
disposal of the abandoned motor vehicle, it shall be entitled to reimbursement
for the cost thereof along with its other costs as herein provided.
   (B)   Disposal of unclaimed property.
      (1)   Definition. The term ABANDONED PROPERTY means tangible or
intangible property that has lawfully come into the possession of the city in
the course of municipal operations, remains unclaimed by the owner and has been
in the possession of the city for at least 60 days and has been declared by a
resolution of the Council.
      (2)   Preliminary notice. If the City Administrator knows the identity
and whereabouts of the owner, he or she shall serve written notice upon him or
her at least 30 days prior to a declaration of abandonment by the Council. If
the city acquired possession from a prior holder, the identity and whereabouts
of whom are known by the City Administrator notice shall also be served upon
him or her. The notice shall describe the property and state that unless it is
claimed and proof of ownership, or entitlement to possession established, the
matter of declaring it abandoned property will be brought to the attention of
the Council after the expiration of 30 days from the date of the notice.
      (3)   Notice and sale. Upon adoption of a resolution declaring certain
property to be abandoned property, the City Administrator shall publish a
notice thereof describing the same, together with the names (if known) and
addresses (if known) of prior owners and holders thereof, and including a brief
description of the property. The text of the notice shall also state the time,
place and manner of sale of all the property, except cash and negotiables. The
notice shall be published once at least three weeks prior to sale. Sale shall
be made to the highest bidder at public auction or sale conducted in the manner
directed by the Council in its resolution declaring property abandoned and
stated in the notice.
      (4)   Fund and claims thereon. All proceeds from the sale shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city and expenses thereof paid therefrom. The
former owner, if he or she makes claim within eight months from the date of
publication of the notice herein provided, and upon application and
satisfactory proof of ownership, may be paid the amount of cash or negotiables
or, in the case of property sold, the amount received therefore, less a pro
rata share of the expenses of storage, publication of notice and sale expenses,
but without interest. The payment shall be also made from the General Fund.
   (C)   Disposal of excess property.
      (1)   Declaration of surplus and authorizing sale of property. The City
Administrator may, from time to time, recommend to the Council that certain
personal property (chattels) owned by the city is no longer needed for a
municipal purpose and should be sold. By action of the Council, this property
shall be declared surplus, the value estimated and the City Administrator
authorized to dispose of this property in the manner stated herein.
      (2)   Surplus property with a total estimated value of less than
$175,000. The City Administrator may sell surplus property with a total value
of less than $175,000 through negotiated sale.
      (3)   Surplus property with a total estimated value of $175,000 or more.
The City Administrator shall offer for public sale, to the highest bidder,
surplus property with a total estimated value of $175,000 or more. Notice of
the public sale shall be given stating time and place of sale and generally
describing property to be sold at least ten days prior to the date of sale by
publication once in the official newspaper. The sale shall be to the person
submitting the highest bid.
      (4)   Receipts from sales of surplus property. All receipts from sales of
surplus property under this section shall be placed in the fund from which it
originated or default to the General Fund.
   (D)   Persons who may not purchase; exception.
      (1)   No employee of the city who is a member of the administrative
staff, department head, a member of the Council or an advisor serving the city
in a professional capacity, may be a purchaser of property under this section.
Other city employees may be purchasers if they are not directly involved in the
sale, if they are the highest responsible bidder and if at least one week’s
published or posted notice of sale is given.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to be a purchaser of property under
this section if the purchase is prohibited by the terms of this section.
(Prior Code, § 2.60) (Ord. 61, passed 8-27-2001; Ord. 234 passed 5-12-2021)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.02 PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Council may, by resolution, establish personnel rules setting forth the
rights, duties and responsibilities of employees. The rules may from time to
time be amended.
(Prior Code, § 2.61)
§ 33.03 DEFERMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   The Council may defer the payment of any special assessment on
homestead property owned by a person who is 65 years of age or older, or who is
retired by virtue of permanent and total disability, and the City Administrator
or City Clerk is authorized to record the deferment of special assessments
where the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The applicant must apply for the deferment not later than 90 days
after the assessment is adopted by the Council.
      (2)   The applicant must be 65 years of age or older or retired by virtue
of permanent and total disability.
      (3)   The applicant must be the owner of the property.
      (4)    The applicant must occupy the property as his or her principal
place of residence.
      (5)   The applicant’s income from all sources shall not exceed the low
income limit as established by the Department of Housing and Urban Development
as used in determining the eligibility for Section VIII housing.
   (B)   The deferment shall be granted for up to 20 years and as long a period
of time as the hardship exists and the conditions as aforementioned have been
met. However, it shall be the duty of the applicant to notify the City
Administrator or City Clerk of any change in his or her status that would
affect eligibility for deferment.
   (C)   The entire amount of deferred special assessments shall be due within
60 days after loss of eligibility by the applicant. If the special assessment
is not paid within 60 days, the City Administrator or City Clerk shall add
thereto interest at 8% per annum from the due date through December 31 of the
following year and the total amount of principal and interest shall be
certified to the County Auditor for collection with taxes the following year.
Should the applicant plead and prove, to the satisfaction of the Council, that
full repayment of the deferred special assessment would cause the applicant
particular undue financial hardship, the Council may order that the applicant
pay within 60 days a sum equal to the number of installments of deferred
special assessments outstanding and unpaid to date (including principal and
interest) with the balance thereafter paid according to the terms and
conditions of the original special assessment.
   (D)   The option to defer the payment of special assessments shall terminate
and all amounts accumulated plus applicable interest shall become due upon the
occurrence of any one of the following:
      (1)   The death of the owner when there is no spouse who is eligible for
deferment;
      (2)   The sale, transfer or subdivision of all or any part of the
property;
      (3)   Loss of homestead status on the property; and/or
      (4)   Determination by the Council for any reason that there would be no
hardship to require immediate or partial payment.
(Prior Code, § 2.62) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000)
§ 33.04 PARTIAL PREPAYMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Partial prepayment of assessments permitted. After the adoption of an
assessment roll pursuant to M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to
time, and before certification of this assessment roll to the County Auditor/
Treasurer, the City Administrator or City Clerk, or other authorized official,
is authorized and directed to accept partial prepayment of this assessment, and
reduce the amount certified to the County Auditor/Treasurer accordingly. As
provided by law, the partial prepayment may be accepted only during the 30-day
period following approval of the assessment roll.
   (B)   Scope. This section shall apply to all assessment rolls which, on the
effective date hereof, have been adopted by the Council but not yet certified
to the County Auditor, and to all assessment rolls subsequently adopted by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.63) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000; Ord. 61, passed 8-25-2001)
§ 33.05 FRANCHISES.
   (A)   Definition. The term FRANCHISE, as used in this section, shall be
construed to mean any special privileges granted to any person in, over, upon
or under any of the streets or public places of the city, whether the privilege
has heretofore been granted by it or by the state, or shall hereafter be
granted by the city or by the state.
   (B)   Franchise ordinances. The Council may grant franchises by ordinance.
Franchise rights shall always be subject to the superior right of the public to
the use of streets and public places. All persons desiring to make any
burdensome use of the streets or public places, inconsistent with the public’s
right in these places, or desiring the privilege of placing in, over, upon or
under any street or public place any permanent or semi permanent fixtures for
the purpose of constructing or operating railways, telegraphing or transmitting
electricity or transporting by pneumatic tubes or for furnishing to the city or
its inhabitants or any portion thereof, transportation facilities, water,
light, heat, power, gas or any other utility, or for any other purpose, shall
be required to obtain a franchise before proceeding to make use of the streets
or public places or before proceeding to place fixtures in these places.
   (C)   Power of regulation reserved. The city shall have the right and power
to regulate and control the exercise by any person, of any franchise however
acquired, and whether the franchise has been heretofore granted by it or by the
state.
   (D)   Conditions in every franchise. All conditions specified in this
section shall be a part of every franchise even though the following may not be
expressly contained in the franchise.
      (1)   The grantee shall be subject to, and will perform on its part, all
the terms of this section and will comply with all pertinent provisions of the
city code, as the same may from time to time be amended.
      (2)   The grantee shall in no case claim or pretend to exercise any power
to fix fares, rates and charges; but that the fares, rates and charges shall at
all times be just, fair and reasonable for the services rendered and shall in
all cases be fixed and from time to time changed, unless regulated by an agency
of the state, in the manner following.
         (a)   A reasonable rate shall be construed to be one which will, with
efficient management, normally yield above all operating expenses and
depreciation, a fair return upon all money invested.
         (b)   If possible, maximum rates and charges shall be arrived at by
direct negotiation with the Council.
         (c)   If direct negotiations fail to produce agreement, the Council
shall, not less than 30 days before the expiration of any existing rate
schedule or agreement, appoint an expert as its representative, the franchisee
shall likewise appoint an expert as its representative and the two of them
shall appoint a third person, preferably an expert, and the three of them shall
constitute a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall report its findings as soon
as possible and the rates and charges it shall agree upon by majority vote
shall be legal and binding, subject only to review by a court of competent
jurisdiction upon application of one of the parties.
      (3)   The Council shall have the right to require reasonable extensions
of any public service system from time to time, and to make rules and
regulations as may be required to secure adequate and proper service and to
provide sufficient accommodations for the public.
      (4)   The grantee shall not issue any capital stock on account of the
franchise or the value thereof, and that the grantee shall have no right to
receive upon condemnation proceedings brought by the city to acquire the public
utility exercising the franchise, any return on account of the franchise or its
value.
      (5)   No sale or lease of this franchise shall be effective until the
assignee or lessee shall have filed with the city an instrument, duly executed,
reciting the facts of the sale or lease, accepting the terms of the franchise,
and agreeing to perform all the conditions required of the grantee thereunder.
      (6)   Every grant of a franchise permitting the erection of poles, masts
or other fixtures in the streets and for the attachment of wires thereto, or
for the laying of tracks in, or of pipes or conduits under the streets or
public places, or for placing in the streets or other public places any
permanent or semi permanent fixtures whatsoever, shall be subject to the
conditions that the Council shall have the power to require alterations
therein, or relocation or rerouting thereof, as the Council may at any time
deem necessary, for the safety, health or convenience of the public.
Particularly, the Council shall have the power to require the removal of poles,
masts and other fixtures bearing wires and placing underground all facilities
for whatsoever purpose used.
      (7)   Every franchise shall contain a provision granting the city the
right to acquire the same in accordance with statute.
      (8)   The franchisee may be obligated by the city to pay the city fees to
raise revenue or defray increased costs accruing as a result of utility
operations, or both, including, but not limited to, a sum of money based upon
gross operating revenues or gross earnings from its operations in the city.
   (E)   Further provisions of franchises. The enumeration and specification of
particular matters which must be included in every franchise or renewal or
extension thereof, shall not be construed as impairing the right of the city to
insert in any franchise or renewal or extension thereof the other and further
conditions and restrictions as the Council may deem proper to protect the
city’s interests, nor shall anything contained in this section limit any right
or power possessed by the city over existing franchises.
(Prior Code, § 2.64) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995)
§ 33.06 CRIMINAL BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Applicants for city employment.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to the state’s computerized
criminal history information for specified non-criminal purposes of employment
background checks for the positions described in division (A)(2)(a) below.
      (2)   Criminal history employment background investigations. The City
Police Department is required, as the exclusive entity within the city, to do a
criminal history background investigation on the applicants for the following
positions within the city, unless the city’s hiring authority concludes that a
background investigation is not needed:
         (a)   Employment positions: all seasonal, regular part-time and full-
time employees and volunteers of the city;
         (b)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen employment applicants, the City Police Department is authorized
to access data maintained in the State Bureau of Criminal Apprehension
Computerized Criminal History information system in accordance with BCA policy.
Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained by the City Police
Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or
his or her designee. A summary of the results of the computerized criminal
history data may be released by the City Police Department to the hiring
authority, including the City Council, the City Administrator or other city
staff or consultants involved in the hiring process; and
         (c)   Before the investigation in undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the City Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the
collection, maintenance and use of the information. Except for the positions
set forth in M.S. § 364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the city
will not reject an applicant for employment on the basis of the applicant’s
prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the position of
employment sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or
misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request
on this basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
            1.   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
            2.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
            3.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment;
and
            4.   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be
considered upon reapplication.
   (B)   Applicants for city licenses/permits.
       (1)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to the state’s computerized
criminal history information for specified non-criminal purposes of licensing
and permit background checks.
      (2)   Criminal history license and permit background investigations. The
City Police Department is hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the
city, to do a criminal history background investigation on the applicants for
the following licenses and/or permits within the city:
         (a)   1.   City license:
               a.   Transient merchant/peddler (
Chapter 113);
               b.   Tobacco sales (
Chapter 112); and
               c.   Sexually oriented business/employer license (
Chapter 114).
            2.   City permit: noise exemption (
Chapter 91).
         (b)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen license or permit applicants, the City Police Department is
authorized to access data maintained in the State Bureau of Criminal
Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information system in accordance
with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at
the City Police Department under the care and custody of the chief law
enforcement official or designee. A summary of the results of the computerized
criminal history data may be released by the Police Department to the licensing
authority, including the City Council, the City Administrator or other city
staff or consultants involved in the license approval process.
         (c)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the City Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the
collection, maintenance and use of the information. Except for the positions
set forth in M.S. § 364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the city
will not reject an applicant for a license on the basis of the applicant’s
prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the license sought and
the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor with a jail
sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this basis, the city
shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
            1.   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
            2.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
            3.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license;
and
            4.   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be
considered upon reapplication.
(Prior Code, § 2.65) (Ord. 167, passed 4-29-2013)
§ 33.07 CITY OFFICE ELECTIONS; ABSENTEE BALLOTS.
   (A)   City office elections.
      (1)   Election years. Regular city elections shall be held biennially on
the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November of each even-numbered
year.
      (2)   Terms of office.
         (a)   Office of Mayor. The term of the office of Mayor shall be for
four years.
         (b)   Council members. Two Council member positions shall be up for
election every biennium. Council members shall serve a term of four years and
shall be up for election to a four-year term at the end of each Council
member’s term.
(Prior Code, § 2.70)
   (B)   Absentee ballots.
      (1)   Authorization of Auditor/Treasurer.
         (a)   The County Auditor/Treasurer is authorized to take applications
and distribute absentee ballots for residents of the city.
         (b)   The County Auditor/Treasurer is authorized to direct that
absentee ballots obtained by residents of the city be returned to the County
Auditor/Treasurer for safe and secure storage until Election Day.
         (c)   The County Auditor/Treasurer shall deliver the absentee ballots
directly to the city election polling site on Election Day.
      (2)   Compensation. The County Auditor/Treasurer will be paid a
reasonable compensation by the County Board for services rendered during each
election. Based on the number of absentee ballots cast, the city will pay a
pro-rated share of the total cost, as billed by the County Auditor/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2.71)
(Ord. passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 16, passed 9-3-1996; Ord. 61, passed 8-25-2001)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE; FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Escrows
   
34.02   Payment into City Treasury of fines and penalties
   
34.03   Police and Fire Department service fees for false alarm response
   
34.04   Fee schedules
   
34.05   Fees for services designated by Building Official
Administrative Citations and Penalties
   
34.15   Notice to offending party
   
34.16   Schedule of penalties
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 34.01 ESCROWS.
   The escrow deposit is applied to consulting, legal, engineering,
professional staff and contracted services. Costs incurred above the escrow
amount will be billed monthly. Remaining balances will be refunded to the party
that posted the escrow.
(Prior Code, § 2.19)
§ 34.02 PAYMENT INTO CITY TREASURY OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   Where not otherwise provided by state statute or Rules of Court, all fines,
forfeitures and penalties recovered for the violation of the city code or of a
rule or regulation of the city shall be paid to the City Treasurer by the Court
or officer thereof receiving such monies. Payment shall be made in the manner,
at the time, and in the proportion provided by state statute or, where not
provided by statute, by this city code.
(Prior Code, § 1.06) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000; Ord. 218, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 34.03 POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICE FEES FOR FALSE ALARM RESPONSE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations for
the billing of fees for a response to a false alarm. The intent is to reduce
the number of false alarms occurring within the city and the resultant waste of
city resources by providing for corrective administrative actions including
fees.
   (B)   Applicability. This code shall include only non-residential
establishments within the city.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALARM DISPATCH REQUEST. Notification to a law enforcement agency or fire
department that an alarm, either manual or automatic, has been activated at a
particular alarm site.
      ALARM SITE. A single fixed premises, building, structure, facility or
location served by an alarm system. Each tenant’s space within a multi-tenant
building or complex, if served by a separate system, shall be considered a
separate ALARM SITE.
      ALARM SYSTEM. Devices including, but not limited to, systems
interconnected with a radio frequency method such as cellular or private radio
signal, arranged to emit or transmit a remote or local audible, visual or
electronic signal indicating an alarm condition to which police or fire
personnel are expected to respond. These may include, but not limited to, fire,
burglary, holdup and panic alarm systems. ALARM SYSTEMS to monitor temperature,
carbon monoxide, humidity, medical emergencies or any other condition not
related to the detection of a fire or criminal intrusion into an alarm site or
an attempted robbery at an alarm site are specifically excluded from the
provisions of this code. ALARM SYSTEMS installed on a vehicle or persons are
also excluded unless the alarm is permanently affixed to a specific location.
Periodic alarm testing is excluded when sufficient notice is given to the
Police or Fire Departments.
      FALSE FIRE ALARM. The activation of any fire alarm system which results
in a dispatch of the Fire Department caused by mechanical failure, malfunction,
improper installation, lack of proper maintenance or any other response for
which the Fire Department personnel are unable to determine the apparent cause
of the alarm activation, or by which negligence or intentional misuse of the
fire alarm system by the owner, its employees, agents or any other activation
of a fire alarm system not caused by heat, smoke or fire. FALSE FIRE ALARMS do
not include alarms caused by climatic conditions such as tornadoes,
thunderstorms, utility line mishaps, violent conditions of nature or any other
conditions which are clearly beyond the control of the alarm manufacturer,
installer or owner.
      FALSE POLICE ALARM. An alarm signal eliciting notification to and a
response by police personnel where the responding police officer, having
completed a timely investigation of the alarm site, is unable to find any
evidence of a crime or attempted crime and which is caused by the activation of
the alarm system through mechanical failure, alarm malfunction, improper
installation or the inadvertence of the owner or lessee of an alarm system, or
of the owner or lessee’s employee’s or agents, or by service technicians. FALSE
POLICE ALARMS do not include alarms caused by climatic conditions such as
tornadoes, thunderstorms, utility line mishaps, violent conditions of nature or
any other conditions which are clearly beyond the control of the alarm
manufacturer, installer or owner.
      NON-RESIDENTIAL. Those establishments not identified under the
residential definition.
      RESIDENTIAL. Single- or multi-family housing units that are used, serve
or are designed as a place of residence.
   (D)   Established fee schedule. A false alarm fee shall be paid by the non-
residential alarm user to the city for each alarm in excess of three within a
12-month period beginning with the first alarm response.
 
Alarm                False Police Alarm Fee False Fire Alarm Fee
1st response         $0                     $0
2nd response         $0                     $0
3rd response         $0                     $0
4th response         $50                    $100
5th response         $100                   $200
6th response or more $200                   $400
 
   (E)   Payment of fees. 
      (1)   Payment of fees provided for herein shall be paid to the city
within 30 days from the date of notice by the city to the alarm user. Failure
to pay the fee within 30 days of notice will cause the alarm user to be
considered delinquent and subject to a late payment penalty equal to 10% of the
false alarm fee.
      (2)   Payments not made within 60 days will be considered delinquent. All
delinquent charges and penalties shall be certified by the City Clerk to the
County Auditor each year providing for assessment of the delinquent amounts
against the property of the delinquent alarm user.
   (F)   Corrective action. After the third police/fire response to a false
alarm, the appropriate agency designee will meet with the alarm user to discuss
the cause for the false alarm and the corrective actions to be taken to help
mitigate the chance for future responses.
   (G)   Response to alarms by both fire and police. The Police Department is
typically dispatched to all alarms, moreso to investigate the cause of
activation of the alarm. At times, both agencies will respond to alarms when
deemed necessary. In the case where both agencies are dispatched and respond to
an alarm, the Fire Department will keep tally for that event and track it as
one of the three allowable responses within the 12-month tally period. In the
case where the Fire Department does not respond, the Police Department will
tally the event in a similar manner.
   (H)   Right to notice and appeal.
      (1)   Notice. Written notice shall be provided to all alarm users
notifying them of all false alarm responses to the premises and their status as
a chargeable fee. The alarm user has the right to request an informal hearing
before the Chief of Police, Fire Chief or their designee to appeal the false
alarm fee. The request must be in writing and filed with the Chief of Police or
Fire Chief within ten days of the false alarm notice.
      (2)   Appeal. Anyone aggrieved by the decision of the Chief of Police,
Fire Chief or their designee to affirm the false alarm fee may appeal the
decision to the City Council by filing a written request for an appeal within
ten days of the date of the decision. The decision of the City Council is
final.
   (I)   Exceptions. 
      (1)   Prior notification of activation of a new system is requested to
both the Fire and Police Departments to receive the exemption. There is a 30-
day grace period for all newly installed alarm systems. All false alarms during
this period shall not be considered part of the three allowable alarms within a
12-month period. The installation date must be verified by a dated sales
receipt for the alarm system, or stated invoice from the installer of the alarm
system.
      (2)   The provisions of this section are not applicable to alarm systems
affixed to automobiles, boat trailers, house trailers and recreational motor
vehicles. Periodic testing is granted with prior notification to the Police and
Fire Departments.
   (J)   Enforcement. Failure or omission to comply with this section shall be
deemed a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10.10) (Ord. 131, passed 9-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.04 FEE SCHEDULES.
   The following fees and charges are established for the year 2026. Fee
schedule rates supersede amounts shown in city ordinances or policies which are
dated prior to the fee schedule.
   (A)   Licensing related fees.
Type of Fee Amount of Fee
Type of Fee                                                              Amount
                                                                         of Fee
3.2% malt liquor off-sale                                                $50
3.2% malt liquor on-sale                                                 $100
Adult entertainment establishment license - new/renewal                  $1,000
                                                                         $35
Animal impoundment                                                       plus
                                                                         tax
Animal license                                                           $10
Background check fee                                                     $75
Brew pub on-sale intoxicating                                            $500
(state issued brewers license required)
Brewer pub off-sale malt (growler)                                       $100
(state issued brewers license required)
Brewer taproom on-sale                                                   $500
(state issued brewers license required)
Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating                                    $25
(state issued brewers license required)
Cannabis registration                                                    See §
                                                                         117.22
Club on-sale intoxicating
   Under 200 members                                                  $100
   201-500 members                                                    $200
   501-1,000 members                                                  $400
   1,001-2,000 members                                                $800
   2,001-4,000 members                                                $1,000
   4,001-6,000 members                                                $2,000
   Over 6,000 members                                                 $3,000
Cocktail room on-sale                                                    $500
(state issued micro distillery license required)
Combination massage establishment business and massage therapist license $250
- new
Combination massage establishment business and massage therapist license $50
- renewal
Commercial noise permit (annual)                                         $100
Community festival                                                       $25
Consumption and display permit (set-up)                                  $100
(in addition to state fee)
Culinary class limited on-sale intoxicating                              $100
Dangerous animal collar                                                  $5
Dangerous animal registration (annual)                                   $150
Dangerous animal warning sign                                            $10
Dangerous/potentially dangerous animal hearing fee                       $250
Duplicate license/permit fee                                             $10
Liquor license comprehensive investigation out of state                  $10,000
Liquor license comprehensive investigation within state                  $500
Liquor license preliminary investigation fee                             $150
Massage establishment business license - new                             $200
Massage establishment business license - renewal                         $25
Massage therapist license - new                                          $50
Massage therapist license - renewal                                      $25
Micro distiller off-sale                                                 $100
(state issued micro distillery license required)
Micro distiller temporary on-sale intoxicating                           $25
(state issued micro distillery license required)
Mobile food unit - annual (8 days or more)                               $100
Mobile food unit - temporary (up to 7 days)                              $25
Noise ordinance exemption                                                $25
Off-sale intoxicating                                                    $200
Off-sale intoxicating
(with proof of compliance with M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 3.c, as it may be $100
amended from time to time)
On-sale intoxicating                                                     $1,850
On-sale wine                                                             $175
On-sale wine/strong beer                                                 $275
One-day consumption and display permit                                   $25
Peddler/transient merchant - 14 consecutive days                         $50
Peddler/transient merchant - annual                                      $150
Potentially dangerous animal registration (annual)                       $25
Recreation motor vehicle permit (per vehicle)                            $25
Small brewer off-sale malt (growler)                                     $100
(state issued brewers license required)
Sports, convention and cultural facility                                 $25
Sunday on-sale intoxicating                                              $150
Temporary 3.2% intoxicating                                              $25
Temporary off-sale wine                                                  $25
Temporary on-sale intoxicating                                           $25
Tobacco license                                                          $100
 
   (B)   Administrative citations; fees.
Offense Description Penalty
Offense Description                       Penalty
For all code violations not mentioned
specifically below
   1st offense                         $50
   2nd offense                         $100
   3rd offense                         $30
   4th offense                         $600
   5th offense and beyond              $1,200
Administrative hearing fee                $750
False alarm
   4th response                        $50 (police)
                                          $100 (fire)
   5th response                        $100 (police)
                                          $200 (fire)
   6th response                        $200 (police)
                                          $400 (fire)
Lawn irrigation ordinance violation       Warning (1st violation)
(resets each season)
                                         $50 (2nd violation)
                                         $100 (3rd and subsequent violations)
Parking in person’s with disability spac$100
Yard waste site violation                 $350
 
   (C)   Miscellaneous fees.
Type of Fee Amount of Fee
Type of Fee                             Amount of Fee
After the fact permit/application       Double the fee amount plus expenses
Assessment searches                     $30
Black/white paper copies of Comp Plan   $75 plus tax
Body camera link request                $30
Breath testing                          $5
Building permit mailings                $5
(9x11 envelope or larger)
Building permit mailings (box)          $10
Certifying unpaid charges to tax roll   $50/each instance
City Hall room rental/holiday           $60 plus $60 damage/cleaning deposit
City Hall room rental/weekday (M-Th)    $30 plus $30 damage/cleaning deposit
City Hall room rental/weekend (F-S)     $60 plus $60 damage/cleaning deposit
Conduit debt fee                        0.25% of issuance amount
Credit card use charge                  Additional 2.5% charged for any value
                                        over $500
                                        Salary and benefit costs of lowest paid
Data retrieval for public data requests employee able to retrieve data (copies
                                        are additional)
Fax (local - per page)                  $1 (tax included)
Fax (long distance - per page)          $1.25 (tax included)
Fingerprinting                          $20
Flash drive, Council meeting (each)     $20 plus tax
Flash drives                            $10 plus tax
                                        $10 per day not to exceed $400 (not
Forfeiture storage fee                  including the day vehicle was seized or
                                        the day of disposal)
Mailings                                At cost
Mileage                                 Current IRS rate
Ordinance amendment not requiring a     $75
public hearing
Paper copies of city code               $150 plus tax
Paper copies of subdivision ordinance   $25 plus tax
Paper copies of zoning ordinance        $50 plus tax
Photocopies (each)                      $0.25 (tax included)
Police reports                          $0.25 per page per statute
Return check fee                        $30
Scanning (larger than 11x17, per page)  $1 (tax included)
Special meetings                        $350
Squad camera video link request         $30
Vehicle impound release fee             $50
Yard waste site cards                   Residential/one per household
   1st card                          Free
   Replacement card                  $10
 
   (D)   Property related fees. Applicants for any commercial/industrial
administrative or building permit will be invoiced for fees, in excess of
$1,000 per permit, charged by outside consulting services, including
engineering and legal fees, for permit and other submittal reviews incurred and
billed back to the city by these consultants. These fees will be invoiced to
the applicant of these projects at the rate the city is billed.
Type of Fee Amount of Fee
Type of Fee                            Amount of Fee
Administrative zoning permit           $25
After the fact administrative zoning   $50
permit
Amendment - ordinance or Comprehensive $350 + $1,000 escrow
Plan
Building permit fees                   See §
                                       35.05
   Using credit card to pay         3% of fee ($2 minimum)
   Using E-check to pay             $3 for fees up to $10,000
                                       $10 for fees over $10,000
Business subsidy application           $250
Concept Plan                           $200 + $1,000 escrow
Conditional use permit (commercial/    $350 + $1,000 escrow
industrial)
Conditional use permit (PUD) (planned  $350 + $3,000 escrow
unit development)
Conditional use permit (residential)   $350 + $1,000 escrow
Environmental review (EAW/AUAR)        $500 + $5,000 escrow
Final plat                             $300
Interim use permit (commercial/        $350 + $1,000 escrow
industrial)
Interim use permit (residential)       $350 + $1,000 escrow
Land use appeals                       $300 plus out of pocket costs for all
                                       consultant and/or attorney time
Mining/excavation/grading-filling      $350 + $50/acre beyond 1 acre + escrow
permit                                 (varies with project)
Minor subdivision                      $500 + $3,000 escrow
Moving permit                          $200 + escrow (varies with project)
New construction
   (Grading escrow)                 $50 + $2,950 escrow
   (Lawn escrow)                    $100 + $1,900 escrow
Outdoor entertainment/special event    $25
permit
Parkland dedication fees               See Unified Development Ordinance
Permanent sign permit (no footings)    $50
Petition for annexation                $400 + state fees
Preliminary plat                       $400 + $20/lot + $5,000 escrow
Recording document fee                 $46
Rezoning of property                   $350 + $1,000 escrow
Right-of-way excavation/obstruction
   Commercial                       $100 + escrow (varies with project)
   Residential
      Concrete or pavement work  $100
      Paver installation         $30
      Sod and rock               No charge
      Sprinkler installation     No charge
Road turn back application             $350 + $5,000 escrow
Road use agreement                     $350 + escrow (varies with project)
Simple lot subdivision/boundary line   $200 + $1,000 escrow
adjustment
Site inspection/investigation          $65/hour (drive time included)
Site plan review                       $350 + $1,000 escrow
                                       $100 (permit fee in addition to
Small cell wireless facility permit    collocation agreement charges, if
                                       applicable)
Special Planning Commission meeting    $350
Subsequent hearings with new notice    $100
Tax abatement application              $500 + $10,000 escrow
TIF application                        $500 + $10,000 escrow
Temporary sign permit                  $25 + $100 deposit
Temporary use permit                   $50
Vacation petition                      $350 + $1,000 escrow
Variance                               $350 + $1,000 escrow
Wetland application                    $500 + $350 escrow
Zoning text amendments                 $350
Zoning use study fee                   $350
Zoning verification letter             $50
 
   (E)   Public, commercial, industrial plumbing fees. Plumbing system plans
and specifications that are submitted to the city for review shall be
accompanied by the appropriate plan examination fees, and shall be paid prior
to plan approval. The city adopts the State Department of Labor and Industry
Plumbing Plan Review Fee Schedule by reference and will charge fees for all
plan reviews and audits of plumbing installations for public, commercial and
industrial buildings at the rates set in this fee schedule, as amended. All
permits must be completed prior to beginning work.
   (F)   Utility related fees.
Type of Fee Amount of Fee Comments
Type of Fee                 Amount of Fee             Comments
After hours water or sewer  $200 up to 2 hours,
emergency call-out          additional hours extra
After hours water or sewer  $200 up to 2 hours,
installation inspection     additional hours extra
Disconnection fee -         $100
involuntary
Disconnect fee - voluntary  $50
Hydrant meter 3/4" or       $10 plus $100 deposit
smaller - deposit
Hydrant meter rental -      $40 plus $50 deposit
(week minimum)
Hydrant/water fill station  $30
hook up
Meter 3/4"                  $520
Meter 5/8"                  $420
Meter 1"                    $685
Meter 1-1/2"                Current cost of meter and
                            connection
Meter 2"                    Current cost of meter and
                            connection
Meter 3"                    Current cost of meter and
                            connections
Meter 4"                    Current cost of meter and
                            connections
Meter 6"                    Current cost of meter and
                            connections
Meter 8"                    Current cost of meter and
                            connections
Reconnection fee            $50
Sanitary sewer trunk charge $3,322 per acre
Sewer availability charge   All other $4,000
(SAC)
Sewer availability charge
(SAC) single-family, quad   $3,200                    Effective 7/5/22-12/31/26
homes, townhomes and duplex
unit
Sewer availability charge
(SAC) apartment buildings   $1,400                    Effective 7/5/22-12/31/26
per unit
Sewer tap permit            $100
Storm sewer connection      $100 plus escrow
permit
Storm sewer trunk charge 1- $5,183 per acre
3 unit/acre
Storm sewer trunk charge >3 $6,339 per acre
unit/acre
Storm sewer trunk charge    $9,895 per acre
comm/ind
Water and sewer             $150
installation inspection
Water availability charge   All other $2,977
(WAC)
Water availability charge
(WAC) apartment buildings   $1,041.95                 Effective 7/5/22-12/31/26
per unit
Water availability charge
(WAC) single-family, quad   $2,381.60                 Effective 7/5/22-12/31/26
homes, townhomes and duplex
unit
Water flow/pressure test    $100 per hydrant
Water line wet tap permit   $100
Water trunk charge          $2,746 per acre
 
   (G)   Charges for services.
Type of Fee Amount of Fee
Type of Fee                                              Amount of Fee
Domestic sewer
   Sewer up to 2,000 gallons                          $13.46 minimum charge
   Sewer 2,001 gallons and above                      $9.31 (per 1,000 gal. of
                                                         water used)
Utility bill charges
   Late fee - delinquent accounts (in excess of $5)   $10 per billing period +
                                                         15%
Water
   Bulk water fill charge                             $3 per 1,000 gallons of
                                                         water
   Commercial/industrial (per 1,000 gallons)
      0-25,000                                     $2.97
      25,001-50,000                                $3.42
      50,001-100,000                               $3.92
      100,001 and above                            $4.89
   Final water meter read/monthly re-read             $25
   Monthly service charge for 5/8" meter              $5
   Monthly service charge for 3/4" meter              $5.28
   Monthly service charge for 1" meter                $5.77
   Monthly service charge for 1-1/2" meter            $11.34
   Monthly service charge for 2" meter                $12.72
   Monthly service charge for 3" meter                $28.35
   Monthly service charge for 4" meter                $35.66
   Monthly service charge for 6" meter                $52.74
   Monthly service charge for 8" meter                $103.96
   Residential/multi res. (per 1,000 gallons)
      0 - 6,000 gallons                            $2.97
      6,001 - 12,000 gallons                       $3.42
      12,001 and above                             $3.92
   Testing fee
      State water service connection fee (January- $1.27 per month
November)
      State water service connection fee (December)$1.25 per month
Other charges for services
   *1-ton dump truck/snow plow                        $100 per hour plus tax
   *Bobcat/toolcat                                    $75 per hour plus tax
   *Bobcat/toolcat - attachments/broom                $25 per hour plus tax
   *Bucket truck                                      $100 per hour plus tax
   *Chipper                                           $75 per hour plus tax
   *Dump truck/snow plow                              $150 per hour plus tax
   *Generator
                                                         $500 per day, minimum,
      Daily                                        plus tax and truck
                                                         rental
      Weekly                                       $2,000 per week plus tax
                                                         and truck rental
   Grass cutting fee
      Commercial                                   $350
      Contracted out                               Contractor rate + $25
                                                         administrative fee
      Residential                                  $150
   *Jet/vac truck                                     $200 per hour plus tax
                                                         (2-hour minimum)
                                                         15% per annum accrued
   Late charge on invoiced amounts                    monthly on unpaid
                                                         balances
   *Loader/snow plow                                  $150 per hour plus tax
   *Pickup truck                                      $50 per hour plus tax
   *Pickup snow plow                                  $100 per hour plus tax
   Public works labor rate                            $70 per hour plus tax
   Right-of-way tree trimming
      First half hour - minimum charge             $125
      Each 15-minute interval after first half hour$52.50
   *Salt                                              $92 per ton plus tax
   *Salt/sand                                         $116 per ton plus tax
   *Sanding, charge by yards used                     $65 per yard plus tax
                                                         and truck rental
   Sidewalk snow removal
      Commercial                                   $150
      Contracted out                               Contractor rate + $25
                                                         administrative fee
      Residential                                  $150
   *Snowblower for loader                             $150 per hour plus tax
   *Sweeper                                           $150 per hour plus tax
   *Tractor/loader/mower                              $100 per hour plus tax
   *Water line thawing machine                        $150 per hour plus tax
   (only available M-F, 8:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m.)          (2-hour minimum)
Note to Table:
   *When renting any of the above equipment, a public works operator(s) may be
required as well at the above labor rate.
 
(Prior Code, § 2.19) (Ord. 184, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 186, passed 1-23-2017;
Ord. 196, passed 12-26-2018; Ord. 199, passed 2-26-2018; Ord. 207, passed 12-
24-2018; Ord. 211, passed 2-11-2019; Ord. 219, passed 12-23-2019; Ord. 226,
passed 7-27-2020; Ord. 230, passed 12-21-2020; Ord. 236, passed 6-21-2021; Ord.
239, passed 7-12-2021; Ord. 241, passed 7-26-2021; Ord. 243, passed 10-13-2021;
Ord. 249, passed 1-3-2022; Ord. 252, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 261, passed 10-24-
2022; Ord. 265, passed 12-27-2022; Ord. 278, passed 1-1-2024; Ord. 291, passed
1-1-2025; Ord. 299, passed 1-10-2026; Ord. 301, passed 4-21-2026) Penalty, see
§
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fees for services designated by Building Official, see §
34.05
§ 34.05 FEES FOR SERVICES DESIGNATED BY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The administration and issuance of permits, along with the collection of
fees and services administered by the Building Official shall be conducted in
accordance with this code of ordinances, the state statutes and Administrative
Rules, and as provided by in this section. Fees are to be commensurate with the
service provided. Permit fees not specifically identified within this section
are based on valuation determined in division (H) below.
   (A)   Fee multiplier table. The following table establishes permit and
inspection fees for all projects that require plan review or are not otherwise
specifically identified within this fee schedule, including non-residential and
multi-family mechanical permits. The minimum fee for these permits is $125. The
cost of plan review is separate, if applicable.
Valuation Permit Fee
Valuation              Permit Fee
$1 to $4,000           $125
                       $125 for the first $4,000 plus $16.55 for each
$4,001 to $25,000      additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $25,000
                       $464.15 for the first $25,000 plus $12 for each
$25,001 to $50,000     additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $50,000
                       $764.15 for the first $50,000 plus $8.45 for each
$50,001 to $100,000    additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $100,000
                       $1,186.65 for the first $100,000 plus $6.75 for each
$100,001 to $500,000   additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $500,000
                       $3,886.65 for the first $500,000 plus $5.50 for each
$501,000 to $1,000,000 additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $1,000,000
$1,000,001 and up      $6,636.65 for the first $1,000,000 plus $4.50 for each
                       additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
 
   (B)   Plumbing permit fees for non-residential or multi-family structures
regulated under the State Building Code and Minn. Rules, Chapter 1305. The
following permit fee table is based upon the construction valuation of the
plumbing system. The cost of plan review is separate, if applicable.
Valuation/Project Details Permit Fee
Valuation/Project Details            Permit Fee
$0 to $1,500                         $135
                                     $135 for the first $1,500, plus $43 for
$1,501 to $2,500                     each additional $500 or fraction thereof,
                                     to and including $2,500
                                     $221 for the first $2,500, plus $28 for
$2,501 to $5,000                     each additional $500 or fraction thereof,
                                     to and including $5,000
                                     $361 for the first $5,000, plus $53 for
$5,001 to $25,000                    each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                     thereof, to and including $25,000
                                     $1,421 for the first $25,000, plus $51 for
$25,001 to $50,000                   each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                     thereof, to and including $50,000
                                     $2,696 for the first $50,000, plus $47 for
$50,001 to $500,000                  each additional $10,000 or fraction
                                     thereof, to and including $500,000
                                     $4,811 for the first $500,000, plus $61
$500,001 to $3,000,000               for each additional $50,000 or fraction
                                     thereof, to and including $3,000,000
                                     $7,861 for the first $3,000,000, plus $51
$3,000,001 and over                  for each additional $100,000 or fraction
                                     thereof
Manufactured home park or campground $25 for each site, minimum charge of $135
Single fixture permit                $210
 
   (C)   Plumbing permit fees for structures regulated under the State
Residential Code. The following table establishes plumbing permit fees for one
and two-family residential structures.
 
Type of Plumbing Permit                Permit Fee per Dwelling Unit
2 or more improvements installed and
inspected at the same time: water
heater, conditioning system, sewer or  $185
water connection, irrigation, backflow
prevention or other miscellaneous
plumbing improvements
Addition, alteration, remodel or       $125
replacement
                                       Included with building permit; provided
Basement finish - owner-occupied or    inspections are performed together
non-rental (owner performed work)      (e.g., framing, rough-in plumbing and
                                       mechanical)
Basement finish - rental property and/ $125
or contractor-performed work
New construction                       $150
Water heater, conditioning system,
sewer or water connection, irrigation, $125 each
backflow prevention or miscellaneous
plumbing improvement
 
   (D)   Mechanical permit fees for structures regulated under the State
Residential Code. The following table establishes mechanical permit fees for
one- and two-family residential structures.
 
Type of Mechanical Permit               Permit Fee per Dwelling Unit
2 or more improvements installed and
inspected at the same time: furnace,
fireplace, air conditioner, garage      $185
heater, gas lines, miscellaneous
appliance and other miscellaneous HVAC
improvement
Addition, alteration, remodel or        $125
replacement
                                        Included with building permit; provided
Basement finish - owner-occupied, non-  inspections are performed together
rental (owner performed work)           (e.g., framing, rough-in plumbing and
                                        mechanical)
Basement finish - rental property and/  $125
or contractor-performed work
Furnace, fireplace, air conditioner,
garage heater, gas lines, miscellaneous $125 each
appliance and miscellaneous HVAC
improvement
New construction (HVAC, mechanical      $150
ventilation system and gas lines)
 
   (E)   Fire protection system permits. The following table establishes permit
and inspection fees for administration of fire protection permits as regulated
according to §§ 105.7.1 through 105.7.25 of the Minnesota State Fire Code. The
cost of plan review is separate, if applicable.
Valuation/Project Details Permit Fee
Valuation/      Permit Fee
Project Details
$0 to $1,500    $135
$1,501 to       $135 for the first $1,500, plus $43 for each additional $500 or
$2,500          fraction thereof, to and including $2,500
$2,501 to       $221 for the first $2,500, plus $28 for each additional $500 or
$5,000          fraction thereof, to and including $5,000
$5,001 to       $361 for the first $5,000, plus $53 for each additional $1,000
$25,000         or fraction thereof, to and including $25,000
$25,001 to      $1,421 for the first $25,000, plus $51 for each additional
$50,000         $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including $50,000
$50,001 to      $2,696 for the first $50,000, plus $47 for each additional
$500,000        $10,000 or fraction thereof, to and including $500,000
$500,001 to     $4,811 for the first $500,000, plus $61 for each additional
$3,000,000      $50,000 or fraction thereof, to and including $3,000,000
$3,000,001 and  $7,861 for the first $3,000,000, plus $51 for each additional
over            $100,000 or fraction thereof
Minor fire      $265, includes plan review and shall apply:
protection         Relocation or installation of 20 sprinkler heads or fewer
(sprinkler/fire    Modification or replacement of a fire alarm control panel
alarm)
Operational     $350, duration of permit determined by the Fire Code Official
permits         or designee
 
   (F)   Plan review fees. The following fees apply when an administrative or
technical plan review is completed for all projects that are not otherwise
specifically identified within this fee schedule. Plan review is determined by
the designated Building Official or their designee. A permit applicant will be
assessed 100% of the plan review fee, for plan review and processing services,
whether or not a permit is issued.
      (1)   Building and mechanical permit plan review.
         (a)   Sixty-five percent of the permit fee as calculated in the fee
multiplier table in division (A) above.
         (b)   Plan review fees for similar plans are set forth in Minn. Rules
1300.0160, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (c)   Where a plan review fee is performed and charged for
residential, the minimum fee for plan review is $81.25.
         (d)   Where a plan review fee is performed and charged for non-
residential and multi-family, the minimum fee is $150.
      (2)   Plan revisions. Applicant-submitted changes or incomplete plans for
all projects.
         (a)   Review of plans for which the designated Building Official or
designee has issued two or more requests for additional information: $95 per
hour with a minimum of one-half hour.
         (b)   Additional plan review required for changes, additions or
revisions to previously approved plans: $95 per hour with a minimum of one-half
hour.
         (c)   Applicant-requested revision with an increase in project scope,
$50 plus the difference between the original project fee and the revised
project fee.
      (3)   Abandoned permit applications. If an application requiring plan
review is submitted, and the applicant elects not to proceed following
completion of the plan review or the contractor deems the application abandoned
pursuant to Minn. Rules 1300.0120, subp. 9, as it may be amended from time to
time, plan review services rendered shall be billed in accordance with this fee
schedule.
      (4)   Non-residential or multi-family plumbing and fire construction
permit plan review. The following table establishes plan review and audit fees,
unless otherwise indicated. These fees are based on the construction valuation
of the performed work. This does not include the cost of the permit.
Valuation/Project Details Plan Review Fee
Valuation/Project Details             Plan Review Fee
$0 to $1,500                          $135
                                      $135 for the first $1,500, plus $28 for
$1,501 to $2,500                      each additional $500 or fraction thereof,
                                      to and including $2,500
                                      $191 for the first $2,500, plus $25 for
$2,501 to $5,000                      each additional $500 or fraction thereof,
                                      to and including $5,000
                                      $316 for the first $5,000, plus $33 for
$5,001 to $25,000                     each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                      thereof, to and including $25,000
                                      $976 for the first $25,000, plus $31 for
$25,001 to $50,000                    each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                      thereof, to and including $50,000
                                      $1,751 for the first $50,000, plus $23
$50,001 to $500,000                   for each additional $10,000 or fraction
                                      thereof, to and including $500,000
                                      $2,786 for the first $500,000, plus $41
$500,001 to $3,000,000                for each additional $100,000 or fraction
                                      thereof, to and including $3,000,000
                                      $3,811 for the first $3,000,000, plus $33
$3,000,001 and over                   for each additional $100,000 or fraction
                                      thereof
                                      1 to 25 sites   $300
Manufactured home park or campground  26 to 50 sites   $350
(plumbing only)                       51 to 125 sites   $400
                                      125 or more sites   $500
 
   (G)   Industrialized modular or prefabricated buildings. The following fees
apply to plan review and inspections for industrialized or modular buildings as
defined in M.S. § 326B.103, subd. 8a, as it may be amended from time to time,
and prefabricated buildings as defined in M.S. § 326B.103, subd. 10a, as it may
be amended from time to time.
      (1)   Inspections and audit fees. Inspection and audits for
industrialized modular or prefabricated buildings shall be billed at $125 per
hour, with a one-hour minimum per inspection or audit.
      (2)   Plan review fees. Plan review of building plans, specifications,
installation instructions, quality-control manuals, systems manuals and other
documents reasonably necessary for review shall be billed at $125 per hour,
with a one-hour minimum per review.
   (H)   Project/construction valuation determination. Valuation shall be
assessed in accordance with Minn. Rules 1300.0160, as it may be amended from
time to time. Valuation is determined using information published by the state,
the International Code Council and as outlined in the following building
valuation data (BVD) table based on regional market conditions.
Description Value per Square Foot
Description                              Value per Square Foot
Above-ground pool                        $15
Attached garage                          $75
Basement finish (existing home)          $25
Basement finish (new home)               $56.50
Carport or gazebo                        $50
Crawl space                              $22
Deck                                     $45
Detached garage (slab on grade or frost  $60
protected footings)
Garage conversion to living space        $75
In-ground pool                           $40
Lean-to                                  $25
Main/first floor area (new home or       $150
addition)
Porch, 3-season                          $130
Porch, 3-season on existing deck         $100
Porch, open                              $55
Porch, screened or breezeway, non-       $90
conditioned area
Post and beam accessory structure,       $60
interior finished
Post and beam accessory structure,       $25
unfinished shell
Remodel, repair, alteration, other       Depends on the scope of work and
                                         required plan review and inspections
Roof over existing deck                  $50
Second floor area (new home or addition) $125
Slab on grade                            $17
Unfinished basement (new home or         $31.50
addition)
 
   (I)   Other permits and fees. The following table identifies costs for
permits or fees associated with administration of either the State Building
Code or the city code. The minimum fee for the following permits is $125. Plan
review is charged according to division (F) above, unless otherwise identified.
Description Cost (FMT = Fee Multiplier Table)
Description                             Cost (FMT = Fee Multiplier Table)
Accessory structure building permit,    See division (A) of this section
residential                             Maximum fee: $850, includes plan review
Addition, alteration, remodel or repair See division (A) of this section
building permit
Agriculture permit exemption            $250, includes preliminary site plan
administrative application              review
Basement finish building permit         See division (A) of this section
                                        Maximum fee: $500, includes plan review
Change of use/occupancy                 See division (A) of this section
                                        Minimum fee: $300
                                        If the actual cost to the city for
                                        service provided by a contracted
Consultants, cost for service           consultant is greater than indicated by
                                        this fee schedule, the greater rate
                                        shall be paid by the applicant
                                        See division (A) of this section
Deck building permit                    Maximum fee: $675, includes plan review
                                        (pertains only if a residential deck is
                                        attached to the primary dwelling)
Demolition building permit,             $300, includes 2 site inspections and
residential, non-residential or multi-  administrative plan review
family
Fence building permit, over 7 feet high See division (A) of this section
Inspection, no fee specifically         $95 per hour, 1-hour minimum
indicated
Inspection, outside normal business     $150 per hour, 2-hour minimum
hours
Inspection, reinspection                $95 per hour, 1-hour minimum
Investigation                           In addition to, but not to exceed, the
                                        original permit fee
Manufactured home set-up building       $375, includes mechanical and plumbing
permit                                  inspections and plan review
Mechanical single appliance permit,     $210
non-residential or multi-family
Mechanical temporary heating equipment, $210
non-residential or multi-family
Miscellaneous building permit, no fee   See division (A) of this section
specifically indicated
                                        $250 if the structure being moved is
                                        within the city corporate boundary
Moved-in structure building permit,     limits; or $250 plus $95/hour plus
residential                             mileage at the current IRS standard
                                        rate if the structure is located
                                        outside the city corporate boundary
                                        limits
                                        See division (A) of this section and
Reissuance or renewal of a permit       determined based on the remaining work
                                        to be completed Minimum fee: $50
Roof building permit, 1- and 2-family   $125
residential
Siding building permit, 1- and 2-family $125
residential
Solar/photovoltaic system building
permit, 1- and 2-family residential up  $175
to 3.5 kW
Solar/photovoltaic system building      See division (A) of this section
permit, non-residential or multi-family
Solar/photovoltaic system building
permit, 1- and 2-family residential     See division (A) of this section
over 3.5 kW
Technology service charge (includes     $10 per permit
contractor license verification)
Window same size replacement building   $125 per dwelling unit
permit, 1- and 2-family residential
 
   (J)   State surcharge. In accordance with M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be
amended from time to time, a state surcharge shall be charged on all permits,
if applicable.
   (K)   Refunds. The designated Building Official may authorize refunds of up
to 80% of the issued permit fee when no work has commenced and no inspections
have been performed.
      (1)   (a)   Requests must be submitted in writing by the permit applicant
within 180 days of permit issuance.
         (b)   Within ten business days of receipt, the designated Building
Official or their designee shall review the request and determine the amount to
be refunded or provide written justification if the request is denied.
      (2)   Fees retained shall cover expenses incurred for services rendered
by the city and/or its consultant(s).
      (3)   Refunds shall only be issued to the original payee.
      (4)   No refunds shall be granted for the following:
         (a)   Plan review fees;
         (b)   Re-inspection fees;
         (c)   State surcharge fees;
         (d)   Fraudulent applications;
         (e)   Expired, revoked, suspended or invalid permits;
         (f)   Technology service charge, unless canceled within the same
business day; or
         (g)   Contractor license verification.
   (L)   Work without a permit. If work requiring a permit under state law,
rule or the city’s code has commenced without first obtaining a permit, an
investigation shall be conducted before a permit may be issued. Investigation
fees are identified in division (J) above. This fee is in addition to the
permit fee and is due whether or not a permit is ultimately issued.
   (M)   Abandonment, expiration, revocation/suspension or validity. The
validity, expiration, suspension and revocation of permits shall be governed by
Minn. Rules. 1300.0120, as it may be amended from time to time, and the
following:
      (1)   An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be
considered abandoned 180 days after the date of filing, except in the following
cases:
         (a)   The application has been actively pursued in good faith by the
applicant, as determined by the designated Building Official or their designee;
and
         (b)   A written request for an extension, not to exceed 180 days, has
been submitted with justifiable cause demonstrated, and the extension has been
approved by the designated Building Official or their designee.
      (2)   Every permit issued shall expire unless the authorized work is
commenced within 180 days of issuance. The designated Building Official or
their designee may grant written extensions of time, not to exceed 180 days, if
the applicant demonstrates justifiable cause.
      (3)   The designated Building Official or their designee may suspend or
revoke a permit if it was issued in error, if the application contained
incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete information, or if there is a violation of
any state law, rule or ordinance.
      (4)   The issuance of a permit, or the approval of plans, specifications
or computations, shall not be construed as authorization for any violation of
this code or any other ordinance of the city. Any permit purporting to
authorize work in violation of the code or other ordinances shall be invalid. A
permit also becomes invalid if the authorized work is suspended or abandoned
for more than 180 days, commencing on the first day the work was suspended or
abandoned.
(Ord. 301, passed 4-21-2026)
**** ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS AND PENALTIES ****
§ 34.15 NOTICE TO OFFENDING PARTY.
   Any sworn member of the Police Department or any other person designated by
the City Council to enforce this subchapter shall, upon determining there has
been a violation of an offense set out in this subchapter, provide a written
notice to the offending party. In the event the violation is in the nature of a
parking violation and the owner or operator of the offending vehicle is not
present, the officer or other designated employee of the city, shall attach
notice of the violation to the windshield wiper or door handle of the vehicle
that indicates an administrative citation will be mailed to the registered
owner of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10.09) (Ord. 251, passed 4-25-2022)
§ 34.16 SCHEDULE OF PENALTIES.
   The offenses that are included in this subchapter and the penalties for
violation thereof are set out below. The Council shall from time to time, by
resolution, set the amount of the penalty associated with the offense.
Offense Description Penalty
Offense Description                               Penalty
Cannabinoid possession under 21                   $50
Curfew - 15 years of age or younger: 10:00 p.m.   $50
Curfew - 16 and 17 years of age: 12:00 a.m.       $50
Curfew - parents allow                            $50
Disorderly conduct                                $50
Disorderly conduct at school                      $50
Dog barking                                       $25
Dog license required                              $25
Dog running at large                              $25
False alarm (4th response)                        $50 (police)
                                                  $100 (fire)
False alarm (5th response)                        $100 (police)
                                                  $200 (fire)
False alarm (6th response)                        $200 (police)
                                                  $400 (fire)
Illegal dumping                                   $100
Junk storage                                      $50
Noise violation                                   $50
Odd/even watering - 1st violation                 Warning
Odd/even watering - 2nd violation                 $50
Odd/even watering - 3rd and subsequent violations $100
Parking beyond 24 hours in city lot               $25
Parking in front of driveway                      $25
Parking in handicap space                         $100
Parking in no parking zone                        $25
Parking in yard                                   $20
Parking on posted fire lane                       $25
Parking on sidewalk                               $25
Parking on street in winter                       $25
Parking when snow in street                       $25
Parking within 10 feet of hydrant                 $25
Parking wrong way                                 $25
Prohibited burning                                $25
Public nuisance                                   $50
Refuse storage                                    $50
Specialty vehicles - equipment violation          $50
Specialty vehicles - no permit                    $75
Specialty vehicles - use in city park             $50
Temporary sign violation                          $50
Tobacco possession by minor                       $50
Uncut grass or weeds                              $50
 
(Prior Code, § 10.09) (Ord. 137, passed 4-27-2009; Ord. 140, passed 9-21-2009;
Ord. 145, passed 2-1-2010; Ord. 185, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 208, passed 12-24-
2018; Ord. 238, passed 7-12-2021; Ord. 251, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 262, passed
10-24-2022)
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
35.01   Policy and purpose
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
35.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
35.05   Local emergencies
   
35.06   Emergency regulations
   
35.07   Emergency management a government function
   
35.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Due to the possibility of the occurrence of disasters of unprecedented size
and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado, blizzard, destructive
winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile action or from
hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in order to ensure that
preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with those disasters, and
generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the public peace,
health and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the people of this
city, it is found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city- level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 35.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council. The emergency management organization shall conform
to and be consistent with, where applicable, all state and federal
requirements, including the National Incident Management System framework found
at 44 C.F.R. part 201, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 35.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to the
maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city departments
and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and
extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management organization
and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or agency in
cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning and
programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization of
the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 35.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk. A copy shall be
kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours. Notice
of the existence of these regulations and their availability for inspection at
the City Clerk’s Office shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the city
hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected area
as the Council shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the Council
may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are declared
to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not affect
the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would otherwise
be entitled under this resolution or under the worker’s compensation law, or
under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 35.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER SERVICE
      
52.   SEWERAGE SERVICE
      
53.   GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Fixing rates and charges for municipal utilities
   
50.03   Contractual contents
   
50.04   Rules and regulations relating to municipal utilities
   
50.05   Abandoned services
   
50.06   Establishing water and sewer connections
   
50.07   Water and sewer availability charges
   
50.08   Trunk water, sewer and storm sewer charges
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPANY, GRANTEE and FRANCHISEE. Any public utility system to which a
franchise has been granted by the city.
    CONSUMER and CUSTOMER. Any user of a utility.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY. Any city owned utility system, including, but not limited
to, water, sewerage and recycling service.
   SERVICE. Providing a particular utility to a customer or consumer.
   UTILITY. All utility services, whether the same be public city owned
facilities or furnished by public utility companies.
(Prior Code, § 3.01)
§ 50.02 FIXING RATES AND CHARGES FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   All rates and charges for municipal utilities, including, but not limited
to, rates for service, permit fees, deposit, connection and meter testing fees,
disconnection fees, reconnection fees including penalties for nonpayment if
any, shall be fixed, determined and amended by the Council and adopted by
resolution. This resolution, containing the effective date thereof, shall be
kept on file and open to inspection in the office of the City Administrator or
City Clerk and shall be uniformly enforced. For the purpose of fixing the rates
and charges, the Council may categorize and classify under the various types of
service, provided, that the categorization and classification shall be included
in the resolution authorized by this section.
(Prior Code, § 3.02) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000)
§ 50.03 CONTRACTUAL CONTENTS.
   Provisions of this chapter relating to municipal utilities shall constitute
portions of the contract between the city and all consumers of municipal
utility services, and every consumer shall be deemed to assent to the same.
(Prior Code, § 3.03)
§ 50.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   (A)   Billing, payment and delinquency.
      (1)   All municipal utilities shall be billed at least quarterly and a
utilities statement or statements shall be mailed to each consumer. All
utilities charges shall be delinquent if they are unpaid within 20 days after
the date of the bill. Payments received by mail postmarked on or before the 20-
day period shall be deemed paid within this period. A penalty of 15% of the
unpaid balance of utilities charges shall be added to, and become part of, all
delinquent utility bills. An additional late fee will be added to the utility
bill for each billing period that a balance in excess of $5 remains unpaid.
      (2)   If service is suspended due to delinquency, it shall not be
restored at that location until the disconnection and reconnection charges have
been paid for each utility reconnected in addition to amounts owed for service,
late fees and penalties.
   (B)   Application, connection and sale of service. Application for municipal
utility services shall be made upon forms supplied by the city, and strictly in
accordance therewith. No connection shall be made until consent has been
received from the city to make the same. All municipal utilities shall be sold
and delivered to consumers under the then applicable rate applied to the amount
of the utilities taken by each consumer.
   (C)   Discontinuance of service. All municipal utilities may be shut off or
discontinued by the city or its authorized representatives or agents where the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   One or more of the following events has occurred:
         (a)   The owner or occupant of the premises served, or any person
working on any connection to the municipal utility systems, has violated any
requirement of the city code relative thereto, or any connection therewith;
         (b)   Any charge for a municipal utility service, or any other
financial obligation imposed on the present owner or occupant of the premises
served, is unpaid after being delinquent for 60 days and after due notice
thereof;
         (c)   The premises has been vacated; or
         (d)   There is fraud or misrepresentation by the owner or occupant in
connection with any application for service or delivery or charges therefore.
      (2)   All delinquent accounts in excess $50 that are 60 days or more past
due shall be certified to the City Administrator, who shall prepare an
assessment roll providing for assessment of the delinquent amounts against the
respective properties served. To each delinquent account shall be added an
administrative fee as set by the City Council to defray the cost of preparation
and certification of the assessment roll. Upon adoption by the City Council,
the Administrator shall certify the assessment roll to the County Auditor for
collection along with property taxes.
      (3)   When a utility account remains unpaid in accordance with division
(C)(1)(b) above, notice shall be served to the owner (and renter if applicable)
that all bills are due and to be paid within 20 days of the postmark of the
notice. No water will be shut off until the owner and/or tenant shall be given
notice and a chance to be heard. No water shall be shut off from October 15
until April 15 if the primary heat source is dependant on water to address the
Cold Weather Rules in M.S. Chapter 216B, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Cold Weather Rules provision only applies to residential customers.
The customer shall be given the opportunity to discuss with utility personnel
the bill towards resolution of the problem of nonpayment. If the customer does
not get resolution, he or she may request to be heard by the City Council. This
request must be made prior to the deadline for shut off. If the Council finds
the amount claimed is owed and there is no legal reason why the water should
remain in the service, the water supply for the customer may be shut off. If
payment is not paid in full or arrangements made for payment, the water may be
shut off.
   (D)   Ownership of municipal utilities. Ownership of all municipal
utilities, plants, lines, mains, extensions and appurtenances thereto, shall be
and remain in the city and no person shall own any part or portion thereof.
Provided, however, that private facilities and appurtenances constructed on
private property are not intended to be included in municipal ownership.
   (E)   Right of entry. By applying for, or receiving, a municipal utility
service, a customer irrevocably consents and agrees that any city employee
acting within the course and scope of his or her employment may enter into and
upon the private property of the customer, including dwellings and other
buildings, at all reasonable times under the circumstances, in or upon which
private property a municipal utility, or connection therewith, is installed,
for the purpose of inspecting, repairing, reading meters, connecting or
disconnecting the municipal utility service.
   (F)   Meter test. Whenever a consumer shall request the city to test any
utility meter in use by him or her, this request shall be accompanied by a cash
deposit for each meter to be tested. If any meter is found to be inaccurate,
the same shall be replaced with an accurate meter and the deposit thereon
refunded. If the meter shall be found to be accurate in its recordings or
calculations, it shall be reinstalled and the deposit shall be retained by the
city to defray the cost of the test.
   (G)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, mar, deface, disturb or in any way interfere with any buildings,
attachments, machinery, apparatus, equipment, fixture or appurtenance of any
municipal utility or municipal utility system, or commit any act tending to
obstruct or impair the use of any municipal utility.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with, opening
into, use or alter in any way any municipal utility system without first having
applied for and received written permission to do so from the city.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to turn on or connect a utility when
the same has been turned off or disconnected by the city for nonpayment of a
bill, or for any other reason, without first having obtained a permit to do so
from the city.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to “jumper” or by any means or device
fully or partially circumvent a municipal utility meter, or to knowingly use or
consume unmetered utilities or use the services of any utility system, the use
of which the proper billing authorities have no knowledge.
   (H)   Municipal utility services and charges a lien.
      (1)   Payment for all municipal utility (as that term is defined in §
50.01) service and charges shall be the primary responsibility of the fee owner
of the premises served and shall be billed to the owner unless otherwise
contracted for and authorized in writing by the fee owner and any other person
(such as a tenant, contract purchaser, manager and the like), as agent for the
fee owner, and consented to by the city. The city may collect the same in a
civil action or, at the option of the city, as otherwise provided in this
division (H).
      (2)   Each account is made a lien upon the premises served by the
municipal utility. All accounts which are more than 45 days delinquent may,
when authorized by resolution of the Council, be certified by the City Clerk to
the County Auditor, and the City Clerk in so certifying shall specify the
amount thereof, the description of the premises served, and the name of the
owner thereof. The amount so certified shall be extended by the Auditor on the
tax rolls against the premises in the same manner as other taxes, and collected
by the County Treasurer, and paid to the city along with other taxes.
(Prior Code, § 3.04) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000; Ord. 61, passed 8-25-2001; Ord.
106, passed 9-10-2005; Ord. 197, passed 12-26-2017; Ord. 201, passed 3-26-2018)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 ABANDONED SERVICES.
   All service installations connected to the water and sewerage system that
have been abandoned or, for any reason, have become useless for further service
shall be forthwith disconnected at the main. The owner of the premises served
shall pay all costs of excavation, capping, main and street restoration. The
city shall perform the actual disconnection and all pipe and appurtenances
removed from the street right-of-way shall become the property of the city. It
is unlawful for any person to cause or allow any service pipe to be hammered or
squeezed together at the ends to stop the flow of water, or to save expense in
improperly removing the pipe from the main. Also, the improper disposition
thereof shall be corrected by the city and the cost incurred shall be borne by
the person causing or allowing the work to be performed. If any property owner
shall fail to pay the costs incident to services performed under this section,
the city may collect payment therefor as any other utility charge.
(Prior Code, § 3.05) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 ESTABLISHING WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permits for water and sewer connections. Water and sewer connections
permits are required and shall be taken out at the time a building permit is
obtained. These connection permits provide for the installation of individual
water and sewer connections to service lines for each parcel of property.
   (B)   Fee. Connection permit fees shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the City Council. This fee shall take into consideration the time
needed to provide for the inspection of connections of the services.
   (C)   Notice. Before connection to a water and sewer service is commenced,
notice must be given by the property owner or his or her agent to the City
Public Works Department. This notice must be at least 24 hours prior to the
proposed installation of connections to service lines to serve the property.
This is to ensure that a public works employee will be available to inspect the
installation and connection.
   (D)   Scheduling. All excavations for service connections shall be scheduled
to be completed by 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday only unless authorized with
an additional fee as provided. No excavation shall be started after 12:00 p.m.
to assure the connection is made prior to the 4:00 p.m. deadline.
   (E)   Additional fee. Any excavation for service installation and connection
which commences after 12:00 p.m. and is not completed by 4:00 p.m. that day
shall be subject to an additional fee of $100. Any excavation for service
installation and connection that occurs after 4:00 p.m. on weekdays or at any
time on weekend days shall be subject to an additional fee of $100. The
additional fee shall be adjusted from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
   (F)   Time of payment and collection. If it is known that the installation
and connection is to be accomplished outside of ordinary business hours and an
additional fee shall be incurred, the contractor must pay the fee prior to
excavation. In the event an additional fee is imposed, that was not expected,
he or she shall be billed for this cost. In the event the fee is not paid to
the city prior to any additional permits being taken out by the building
contractor, he or she shall be assessed the cost on the next permit. The person
in whose name the building permit is issued for the building where the services
in question are involved shall ultimately be responsible for any fees incurred
under this section.
   (G)   Performance and inspection. Both service lines shall be buried at
sufficient depths to prevent freezing. Any copper water line or sewer line that
comes into contact with cement or concrete must be protected from rupture or
freezing. The trench shall remain open exposing both the water and sewer lines
until the lines have been tested and inspected by a representative of the
Public Works Department to assure compliance.
(Prior Code, § 3.19)
§ 50.07 WATER AND SEWER AVAILABILITY CHARGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SEWER AVAILABILITY CHARGE. A special connection charge, required before
connection of a new service line to the sewer main. The Sewer Availability
Charge Fund (“SAC Fund”) provides for the users share of the capital costs of
wastewater treatment.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT. The processing of the sanitary sewer waste stream
for disposal.
      WATER AVAILABILITY CHARGE. A special connection charge, required before
connection of a new service line to the water main. The Water Availability
Charge Fund (“WAC Fund”) provides for the portion of the trunk facilities such
as but not limited to waste treatment facilities, wells, over sizing and
pumping facilities in accordance with the City Assessment Policy.
   (B)   Sewer and water availability charges.
      (1)   The SAC Fund shall be established to provide funds for wastewater
treatment.
      (2)   The WAC Fund shall be established to provide funds for the costs
associated with the water trunk facilities, in accordance with the City
Assessment Policy.
   (C)   No premises shall be connected with the municipal water or sewer
without first paying the water and sewer availability charge (WAC and SAC)
based on a SAC and WAC rate times the number of SAC and WAC units. Any unit
connecting without a permit for connection shall pay a double SAC and WAC fee.
   (D)   The SAC and WAC rates shall be determined and set periodically by
resolution of the Council.
   (E)   The number of WAC units shall be the same as the number of SAC units.
The number of SAC units shall be computed as follows.
      (1)   Single-family houses, townhouses and duplex units shall each
comprise one unit.
      (2)   Apartments shall each comprise 80% of one unit.
      (3)   The WAC and SAC fees for all industrial, commercial and quasi-
judicial building units to be connected to the municipal water and sanitary
sewer systems will be determined by multiplying the base rates (as shown in §
34.04) by the applicable meter-and-service ratio (as shown in the table in
division (F) below.
      (4)   The computation for new building units shall include a deduction
for demotion of an existing building unit if applicable.
      (5)   If a building permit is required for remodeling for changes in use
in existing structures, a SAC and WAC fee will be imposed to the greater use
giving credit for past use as part of the SAC and WAC fee.
   (F)   Sewer/water availability charge (SAC/WAC) is as follows.
Table 1 - Equivalent Meter-and-Service Ratio*
Meter Size Meter-and-Service Ratio
Table 1 - Equivalent Meter-and-Service Ratio*
Meter Size     Meter-and-Service Ratio
3/4-inch       1.0
1-inch         1.4
1 and 1/2-inch 1.8
2-inch         2.9
3-inch         11.0
4-inch         14.0
5-inch         21.0
8-inch         29.0
Note to Table:
   *Other sizes to be determined by the Public Services Director, or other
staff as assigned by this Director, based on the flow capacity of the of the
water meter(s) to be installed
 
   (G)   The WAC and SAC fees shall be imposed on new construction and
renovation or redevelopment of an existing commercial or industrial structure
resulting in a greater total SAC/WAC unit calculation than the previous use as
stated earlier in this section. The fee shall be collected along with and at
the time of the building permit issuance.
   (H)   A water availability charge (WAC) funds shall be deposited into the
Water Trunk Fund of the city. The Sewer Availability Charge (SAC) Fund will be
maintained as the wastewater treatment fund of the city. Disbursements will be
made from time to time to construction accounts to offset costs associated with
trunk facilities.
(Prior Code, § 3.35) (Ord. 93-9, passed 1-1-1994; Ord. 70, passed 5-11-2002;
Ord. 195, passed 12-26-2017; Ord. 266, passed 12-27-2022)
§ 50.08 TRUNK WATER, SEWER AND STORM SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   Purpose. In furthering the fiscal management strategies of the city
and in an effort to have growth pay its own share, the establishment of trunk
facility charges reduces the charges places the burden of the costs of growth
on those who wish to use city utilities.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LEAP FROG or LEAPFROGGING. A term used to describe the jumping over of
one property to get to the next parcel. Used in the context of this section, a
developer may intend on LEAPFROGGING over a parcel to develop a parcel not
immediately abutting a parcel already served by municipal utilities.
      SEWER TRUNK FACILITIES. Those facilities that are considered necessary
for the proper operation of a sewer system but having a significant role in
serving the system as opposed to a sewer main serving individuals’ properties.
For purposes of this section, SEWER TRUNK FACILITIES include; lift stations,
force mains, larger pipes than needed for the development itself generally
considered sewer mains which exceed eight inches, extra depth of sewer lines
generally considered in excess of 20 feet, jacked or bored highway or railroad
crossings, river crossings, laterals without services, and land and easements
costs for utilities.
      STORM SEWER TRUNK FACILITIES. Those facilities that are necessary for
proper drainage, which are beyond the need for individual areas. These systems
typically link drainage areas (conveyance) or to provide storage, treatment, or
disposal of storm drainage. For purposes of this section, these systems
include; detention and retention ponds, sedimentation basins, pond liners,
storm sewer piping in excess of that needed to serve the development in which
they are installed, and land and easement costs for utilities.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT. The processing of the sanitary sewer waste stream
for disposal and shall include all portions of the system not identified as
trunk facilities defined in this section.
      WATER TRUNK FACILITIES. Those facilities that are considered necessary
for the proper operation of a water system but having significant role in
serving the system as opposed to a water main serving individual properties.
For purposes of this section, WATER TRUNK FACILITIES include; wells and pump
houses required as a result of new development, water towers, booster pump
stations, larger pipes than needed for the development itself, generally
considered water mains which exceed eight inches, jacked or bored highway or
railroad crossings, laterals without services and land and easement costs for
utilities.
   (C)   Basis for trunk charges. Trunk charges will be charged on all
properties based on a per acre charge. This charge shall be on a gross acre
basis for water and sewer and on a net acre basis for storm sewer. In
calculating the net cost for the storm sewer, property acreage for parkland,
streets, storm sewer basins and wetlands will be deducted to determine a net
acreage amount.
   (D)   Areas to be charged trunk charges. All areas within city limits or
brought into the city must pay trunk charges at the current rate at the time
the land is served.
   (E)   Charges. A trunk facilities charge shall be made for each of the
following utilities: water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer. The charges shall
be established and adjusted by resolution. Charges shall be adjusted on an
annual basis for inflation and actual growth conditions experienced by the
city. The amount of the charge shall be set from time to time by resolution of
the Council.
   (F)   Trunk funds. A separate fund shall be established as a revolving Trunk
Facilities Fund in each of the categories described.
      (1)   Sanitary Sewer Revolving Trunk Fund. Funds will be used to pay for
trunk system expansions and improvements, as described in definitions above.
      (2)   Water Revolving Trunk Fund. Funds will be used to pay for trunk
system improvements as described above.
      (3)   Storm Sewer Revolving Trunk Fund. Funds to be used to pay for trunk
conveyance systems, storage and treatment of storm drainage.
   (G)   Payment. Payment of the trunk charges for residential developments
shall be negotiated at the time of a development agreement. Payment for
commercial and industrial development shall be paid at the time of the building
permit issuance. Commercial and industrial development shall pay the charge
based on the amount of property actually to be developed, including appropriate
green space and setbacks. As the property develops with subsequent
improvements, charges will then be incurred for the additional space developed
and payment shall be made at the time of subsequent building permits. When the
property develops up to or exceeds 85% of the total parcel acreage the payment
for trunk facilities shall be paid in full.
   (H)   Orderly development. Development shall occur in an orderly fashion.
Properties that abut parcels served by municipal utilities will be considered
as the next feasible property for development. Given the high costs of trunk
facilities the city may limit development activities to selected areas.
Petitions to expand in areas not already under development will be considered
but a decision to expand utilities rests with the city. Factors that will be
considered include, among other things, capacity in the wastewater treatment
facility, well capacity, number of developments under construction and capacity
of staff to deal with the requested development.
   (I)   Leapfrogging. Any developer who wishes to develop a parcel that would
require a leapfrog of a property would be subject to all costs associated with
that leapfrog. Costs would include, but are not limited to, all piping,
including trunk and easements to get to the property to be served for the
development. The developer shall be afforded no credit or reimbursements for
these costs. The property that was jumped over will be required to pay for all
trunk charges for the property regardless of the facilities installed when
developed.
   (J)   Credits against trunk facilities charges. The developer shall be given
a credit for any trunk facility installed within their development. The credit
shall be for the cost of the trunk facility as determined by the City Engineer.
In the event of over sizing or extra depth, a cost differential shall be used
to determine the credit. Bid pricing shall not be the sole determinate in
defining a developer credit. The City Engineer shall be the sole determine any
credit for a given project.
   (K)   Onsite storm sewer systems. Systems installed to provide for site
coverage of impervious surfaces in excess of 50% in commercial and industrial
properties shall not be used as credit in any way. The use of these additional
facilities is for the sole benefit of the property owner.
   (L)   Feasibility studies. Any developer who requests extensions of trunk
facilities, that are not part of their development, shall be required to pay
for the feasibility study determine extent, options and costs of proposed trunk
facilities to serve the development.
(Prior Code, § 3.36) (Ord. 70, passed 5-11-2002; Ord. 254, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   A person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when that person performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, and upon conviction thereof, the violation shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 3.99) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SERVICE
Section
   
51.01   Deficiency of water and shutting off water
   
51.02   Repair of leaks
   
51.03   Increasing size of water service
   
51.04   Service pipes
   
51.05   Private water supplies
   
51.06   Prohibited uses or restricted hours
   
51.07   Private fire hose connections
   
51.08   Opening hydrants
   
51.09   Unmetered service
   
51.10   Water meters
   
51.11   Code requirement
   
51.12   Water service pipe responsibilities
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFICIENCY OF WATER AND SHUTTING OFF WATER.
   The city is not liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of water
to customers whether occasioned by shutting the water off for the purpose of
making repairs or connections or by any other cause whatsoever. In case of
fire, or alarm of fire, water may be shut off to ensure a supply for fire
fighting. In making repairs or construction of new works, water may be shut off
at any time and kept off so long as may be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.02 REPAIR OF LEAKS.
   It is the responsibility of the consumer or owner to maintain the water
service from the curb stop into the house or other building. In case of failure
upon the part of any consumer or owner to repair any leak occurring in his or
her water service within 24 hours after oral or written notice has been given
the owner or occupant of the premises, the water may be shut off and will not
be turned on until a reconnection charge has been paid and the water service
has been repaired. When the waste of water is great or when damage is likely to
result from the leak, the water will be turned off if the repair is not
proceeded with immediately.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.03 INCREASING SIZE OF WATER SERVICE.
   When it is desired to increase the size of water service from the main, a
new permit shall be taken out and the regular tapping charge shall be made as
if this were a new service.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.04 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe must be laid in a manner so as to prevent rupture by
settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less than seven feet below the
surface in all cases so arranged as to prevent rupture and stoppage by freezing
or inadvertent damage. Frozen or damaged service pipes between the curb stop
and the building shall be the responsibility of the owner. Service pipes must
extend from the curb stops to the inside of the building; or if not taken into
the building then to the hydrant or other fixtures that they are intended to
supply. A valve, the same size as the service pipe, shall be placed close to
the inside wall of the building, ahead of the meter and well protected from
freezing. Joints on copper tubing shall be flared and kept to a minimum. No
joints will be allowed in services less than 100 feet in length. All joints
shall be left uncovered until inspected. Minimum size connection with the water
mains shall be one inch in diameter. All services of greater than one inch
shall be constructed of material as approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.20) (Ord. 47, passed 7-15-2000) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES.
   No water pipe of the city water system shall be connected with any pump,
well, pipe, tank or any device that is connected with any other source of water
supply and when these are found, the city shall notify the owner or occupant to
disconnect the same and, if not immediately done, the city water shall be
turned off. Before any new connections to the city system are permitted, the
city shall ascertain that no cross connections will exist when the new
connection is made. When a building is connected to “city water”, the private
water supply may be used only for the purposes as the city may allow.
(Prior Code, § 3.20) (Ord. 149, passed 6-28-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 PROHIBITED USES OR RESTRICTED HOURS.
   (A)   Whenever the city shall determine that a shortage of water threatens
the city, it may entirely prohibit water use or limit the times and hours
during which water may be used from the city’s water supply system for lawn and
garden sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air conditioning, swimming pools
and other uses. It is unlawful for any water consumer to cause or permit water
to be used in violation of the determination after public announcement thereof
has been made through the news media specifically indicating the restrictions
thereof.
   (B)   To conserve water resources, prevent the wasteful and harmful effects
of lawn sprinkling and irrigation during mid-day hours and allow the city’s
water system adequate opportunity to replenish the water supply in the storage
tanks, certain limitations must be placed on the use of the city’s water
supply. During the period of Memorial Day to Labor Day of any year, a person
may only sprinkle or irrigate lawns within the city:
      (1)   Before 10:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m.;
      (2)   Residents with an address ending with an odd number such as one,
three, five and so on shall sprinkle or irrigate lawns when necessary only on
odd-numbered calendar days, and those with addresses ending with an even number
such as zero, two, four, six and so on shall sprinkle or irrigate lawns on
even-numbered calendar days; and
      (3)   The restrictions established in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above
do not apply to the use of water:
         (a)   From a hose that a person holds by hand;
         (b)   For recently established lawns. Those lawns may be watered daily
for up to one month after installation, but only during the hours listed above;
         (c)   From a source of water other than the city’s water system if the
water user has registered the other source with the Water Department, obtained
a water appropriation permit if required under M.S. § 103B.211, subd. 4, as it
may be amended from time to time, and posted a sign provided by the Water
Department that clearly informs the public of the alternative water source; and
         (d)   If a person claims the privilege of an exception, a
representative of the city may inspect the person’s property during reasonable
times to ensure that there is compliance with this provision.
   (C)   Property owners who have been notified of the watering restrictions
and subsequently violate these restrictions shall be fined in accordance with §
90.55 to 90.60. Fine amounts shall be set by the City Council annually as part
of the city’s administrative citation fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3.20) (Ord. 145, passed 1-20-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 PRIVATE FIRE HOSE CONNECTIONS.
   Owners of structures with self contained fire protection systems may apply
for and obtain permission to connect the street mains with hydrants, large
pipes and hose couplings, for use in case of fire only, at their own
installation expense and at the rates as the Council may adopt by resolution as
herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.08 OPENING HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, other than members of the Fire Department or
other person duly authorized by the city, in pursuance of lawful purpose, to
open any fire hydrant or attempt to draw water from the same or in any manner
interfere therewith. It is also unlawful for any person so authorized to
deliver or suffer to be delivered to any other person any hydrant key or
wrench, except for the purposes strictly pertaining to their lawful use.
(Prior Code, § 3.20) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 UNMETERED SERVICE.
   Unmetered service may be provided for construction, flooding skating rinks
and any other purpose. The service shall be at a duly adopted rate. Where it is
difficult or impossible to accurately measure the amount of water taken,
unmetered service may be provided and the unmetered rate applied; provided,
however, that by acceptance thereof, the consumer agrees to have the city
estimate the water used. In so estimating, the city shall consider the use to
which the water is put and the length of time of unmetered service.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.10 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Purchase and ownership. The property owner when establishing a
facility shall pay for their respective water meter. The city shall retain
control and possession of all water meters installed within the city.
    (B)   Maintenance. All water meters one inch or larger shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to maintain. Meters under one inch in size
shall be maintained by the city. All repairs required as a result of damage or
abuse, as determined by the city, shall be the responsibility of the property
owner to repair or replace.
   (C)   Installation and replacement. It is the responsibility of the property
owner to install all new installations of water meters. All water meters being
replaced shall be installed and controlled by the city however, some
installations of replacement water meters may require plumbing upgrades. The
upgrades shall be the responsibility of the property owner. The city shall
furnish any remote type of meter, in need of replacement through normal usage.
   (D)   Installation location and multiple meters. Water meters shall be
installed as close as practical to the location where the water line enters the
building. Meters shall installed between 18 inches and three feet of the floor
elevation. One water meter shall be installed in commercial buildings with
multiple tenants. The property owner of building shall be responsible to the
city for all water charges within the building. Additional water meters
installed within a building will be the responsibility of the property owner
for purchase, installation, reading, billing and maintenance. The city shall
read and bill from only the meter identified as the main meter.
(Prior Code, § 3.20) (Ord. 54, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 51.11 CODE REQUIREMENT.
   All piping, connections and appurtenances shall be installed and performed
strictly in accordance with the State Plumbing Code, being Minn. Rules part
4714.0050 et seq., as they may be amended from time to time. Failure to install
or maintain the same in accordance therewith, or failure to have or permit
required inspections shall, upon discovery by the city, be an additional ground
for termination of water service to any consumer.
(Prior Code, § 3.20) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 WATER SERVICE PIPE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It is the primary responsibility of any owner/occupant of any building to
maintain the water connection from the building to the curb stop, typically at
the property line. The property owner shall be responsible for all blockages,
leaks or damage done to the water line from the curb stop to the building. The
city shall be responsible only for defects in installation from the curb stop
to the water main. Damage done to water service lines from the curb stop to the
main shall be the responsibility of the person(s) responsible for the damage.
(Prior Code, § 3.20) (Ord. 47, passed 7-15-2000)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   A person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when that person performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, and upon conviction thereof, the violation shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 3.99) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERAGE SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of municipal sewer system
   
52.03   Metered water not discharged
   
52.04   Classification of industrial wastes
   
52.05   Deleterious substances
   
52.06   Unlawful discharge
   
52.07   Unmetered water supply
   
52.08   Size, kind and depth of pipe
   
52.09   Sewer service pipe responsibilities
   
52.10   Maintenance of individual sewerage systems
Sewage System Damage or Obstructions
   
52.25   Purpose
   
52.26   Definitions
   
52.27   Prohibited acts
   
52.28   Enforcement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, gaseous or solid waste substance resulting
from any process of industry, manufacturing, trade or business, or from
development of any natural resources.
   SEWAGE. Water carried waste products from residences, public buildings,
institutions or other buildings or premises, including the excrement or other
discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals, together with the ground
water infiltration and surface water as may be present.
   SEWERAGE SERVICE. The use of and benefit from the sewerage system, including
the collection, transportation, pumping, treatment and final disposal of
sewage.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. Includes all street lateral, main and intersecting sewers
and structures by which sewage or industrial wastes are collected, transported,
treated and disposed of; provided that this shall not include plumbing inside
or a part of a building or premises served, or service sewers from a building
to the street lateral.
(Prior Code, § 3.30)
§ 52.02 USE OF MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, septic tank,
cesspool or the facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage on private
property, unless there is no public sanitary sewer service main within 100 feet
of the private property line.
(Prior Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 METERED WATER NOT DISCHARGED.
   If a portion of the water furnished to any premises is not directly or
indirectly discharged into the sewerage system, the quantity of the water shall
be deducted in computing the sewerage service charge or rental, provided a
separate meter shall be installed and operated to register the quantity so not
discharged into the sewerage system. Provided also, that where it is not
practicable to meter the portion of the water not discharged into the sewerage
system, the adjustment may be made as shall be fair and equitable in order to
determine the amount of the service charge or rental; but until the adjustment
shall be effected that water consumption basis hereinbefore prescribed shall
remain in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 3.30)
§ 52.04 CLASSIFICATION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   The city shall have the power to classify the industrial wastes from any
lot, parcel of land, building or premises discharged therefrom into the
sewerage system of the city, taking into consideration the quantity of sewage
produced and its concentration, strength of pollution qualities in general and
of any other factors impacting upon the cost of its disposal, for the purpose
of fixing and prescribing a distinct rate of rental or use charge, should it be
found that as to the sewer uses the water basis consumption does not provide a
practicable method in the premises. However, until so determined and the
distinct rate fixed, the water consumption basis hereinbefore prescribed shall
remain in full force and effect as to the commercial or industrial users. The
city may require and prescribe pretreatment of sewage on the consumer’s
premises.
(Prior Code, § 3.30)
§ 52.05 DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   No sewage, including industrial wastes, shall contain any substance which is
deemed deleterious by the city to the operation of the sewerage system or to
any plant or facilities used in the treatment or disposal of the sewage. If a
user of the sewerage system discharges excessive loads or any deleterious
substances therein which are likely to retard or injuriously affect sewerage
operations, he or she shall discontinue the practice and the practice is
declared to be a violation of this section. Each day of violation continuing
after having been notified in writing by the City Clerk to discontinue the
practice shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 3.30) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE.
   It is unlawful to discharge any of the following described wastes into the
sewerage system:
   (A)   Liquids having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (B)   Water or waste which contains more than 100 ppm by weight of fat, oil
or grease;
   (C)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
   (D)   Garbage, except such as has been properly shredded;
   (E)   Ashes, cinders, shavings, feathers, tar or other liquid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewerage system or
other interference with the proper operation of the system;
   (F)   Noxious or malodorous substances capable of creating a public
nuisance; and/or
   (G)   Roof water, ground water or any other natural precipitation.
(Prior Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 UNMETERED WATER SUPPLY.
   If any premises discharges normal sewage or industrial waste into the
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, obtains part or all of
the water used thereon from sources other than the city, and the water so
obtained is not measured by a meter of equivalent specifications to the meters
used by the city, then in this case the city shall permit the discharge of
normal sewage or industrial waste into its sanitary sewerage system only when
the owner of the premises or some other interested party shall, at his or her
own expense, install and maintain, for the purpose of metering the water
supply, a water meter of equivalent specifications to those installed by the
city in connection with the city water system. Each water meter shall be
installed to measure all water received on the premises and the above charges
and rates shall be applied to the quantity of water received as measured by the
meter. If, because of the nature of the source of the water supply, the city
deems it impracticable to thus meter the water on any premises, the Council may
by resolution establish a flat charge per month in accordance with the
estimated use of water on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 3.30)
§ 52.08 SIZE, KIND AND DEPTH OF PIPE.
   The city may prescribe the size, kind and depth of sewerage service pipe and
connections. The minimum size when placed underground shall be four inches in
diameter
(Prior Code, § 3.30)
§ 52.09 SEWER SERVICE PIPE RESPONSIBILITIES.
    It is the primary responsibility of any owner/occupant of any building to
maintain the sewer connection from the building to the property line. The
property owner shall be responsible for blockages, leaks or damage done to the
sewer service line from the building to the property line. The city shall be
responsible only for defects in installation from the property line to the
sewer main. Blockages, which are the result of occupant misuse or misconduct,
shall be the responsibility of the owner/occupant from the building to the
sewer main. Damage done to sewer service lines from the property line to the
main shall be the responsibility of the person(s) responsible for the damage. A
clean out shall be provided one foot from the exterior wall of the building on
all sewer service lines.
(Prior Code, § 3.30) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 47, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty,
see §
52.99
§ 52.10 MAINTENANCE OF INDIVIDUAL SEWERAGE SYSTEMS.
   It is unlawful for the owner or tenant of any premises to permit an
individual sewage disposal system to overflow, or expose the contents thereof
above ground.
(Prior Code, § 10.23) Penalty, see §
52.99
**** SEWAGE SYSTEM DAMAGE OR OBSTRUCTIONS ****
§ 52.25 PURPOSE.
   It is the intention of the Council to prohibit damage to or interference
with public and private drainage systems within the city for the purpose of
promoting the public health, safety, welfare and aesthetics of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.24)
§ 52.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAMAGE. Any act which interferes with or reduces the hydraulic capacity of
any drainage system.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Any gutters, ditches, storm sewers, drains, grating, pipes
or culverts.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any material which interferes with or reduces the hydraulic
capacity of any drainage system, including, but not limited to, leaves, snow,
fill, building materials, debris and garbage.
(Prior Code, § 10.24)
§ 52.27 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or damage any private or
public drainage system or component.
(Prior Code, § 10.24) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Administrator or City Clerk and any duly authorized city, county or
state officer or employee may enforce the provisions of this section. The City
Attorney may, in addition to other remedies, institute appropriate actions or
proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate the violations or threatened
violations. If obstruction or damage occurs on private property, the property
owner shall be responsible for the damage unless the owner can prove the
obstruction or damage was caused by another person.
(Prior Code, § 10.24) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   A person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when that person performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, and upon conviction thereof, the violation shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 3.99) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
Section
Recyclable Collection
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Collection and transportation of recyclables
Yard Waste Site
   
53.15   Purpose
   
53.16   Definitions
   
53.17   Acceptable and unacceptable materials
 
   
53.99   Penalty
**** RECYCLABLE COLLECTION ****
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECYCLABLES. Items of newspaper, glass, metal cans and plastic.
   RECYCLING. Any process by which materials which would otherwise become solid
waste are collected, separated or processed and returned to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw materials or products.
(Prior Code, § 3.40)
§ 53.02 COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION OF RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   All commercial solid waste haulers providing curbside service to
residential, commercial or industrial customers in the city shall provide
recycling services to all residential, commercial and industrial customers in
the city.
   (B)   At a minimum, the following materials shall be collected: aluminum and
steel cans, newspaper, clear, brown and green glass, plastics, corrugated
cardboard and office paper. All recyclable materials must be collected on a
regular basis.
   (C)    It is the responsibility of the hauler to notify resident customers
of the pick up schedule. It is also the responsibility of the hauler to
determine, and provide if needed, if the resident customer requires a recycling
bin.
(Prior Code, § 3.40) (Ord. 117, passed 11-25-2006)
**** YARD WASTE SITE ****
§ 53.15 PURPOSE.
   The city owns and operates a yard waste facility that is open to residents
for the purpose of disposing of yard waste materials as defined in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.50)
§ 53.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished or coated
with a similar material, has not been pressure treated with preservatives and
does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products. Dimensional lumber is not considered CLEAN WOOD.
   ILLEGAL DUMPING. Dumping or disposing of any unacceptable materials, as
defined in code, at the city’s yard waste site.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass, grass clippings, garden debris and clippings from
bushes and shrubs. This term does not include stumps, roots or shrubs with
intact root balls.
(Prior Code, § 10.50)
§ 53.17 ACCEPTABLE AND UNACCEPTABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Acceptable materials:
      (1)   Grass and grass clippings;
      (2)   Clean wood;
      (3)   Leaves;
      (4)   Yard waste;
      (5)   Compostable/organic garden debris; and
      (6)   Tree debris less than 20 inches in diameter.
   (B)   Unacceptable materials:
      (1)   Stumps;
      (2)   Root balls;
      (3)   Tree debris greater than 20 inches in diameter;
      (4)   Dimensional lumber;
      (5)   Materials from outside of the county; and
      (6)   Non-organic materials including, but not limited to, rocks,
concrete, plastics or trash.
(Prior Code, § 10.50)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when that person performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, and upon conviction thereof, the violation shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
   (B)   Any person or party that violates §§
53.15 through
53.17 by dumping unacceptable materials at the yard waste site will be subject
to the following penalties:
      (1)   A fine for illegal dumping at the yard waste site, as defined in
the city fee schedule;
      (2)   Revocation of his, her or their yard waste site access card for a
period of one-year; and/or
      (3)   Issuance of a notice of trespass.
         (a)   Any person found in the yard waste site during the one-year
period following the notice of trespass will be issued a citation for
trespassing on public property.
         (b)   In addition, trespassing in the yard waste site during the one-
year revocation period will result in the extension of the revocation for a
year from the trespassing citation.
(Prior Code, § 10.50) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 290, passed 11-25-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Highway Traffic Regulation Act adopted by reference
   
70.02   Trucks operating on residential streets
   
70.03   U-turns
   
70.04   Exhibition driving
   
70.05   Electric-assisted bicycles
   
70.06   Driving through private property to avoid traffic signal
   
70.07   One-way streets
   
70.08   Emergency vehicles
§ 70.01 HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATION ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, or elsewhere in this code,
M.S. Chapter 169, as amended from time to time, is incorporated herein and
adopted by reference, including the penalty provisions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.01)
§ 70.02 TRUCKS OPERATING ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firms or corporations to
operate a commercial truck on residential streets except those trucks that are
actually engaged in making deliveries or pick-ups at residential dwellings.
Further, they shall utilize county roadways or collector streets as their
primary routes. Trucks making deliveries or pick-ups on residential streets
shall abide by the provisions of this chapter. Commercial trucks shall be any
trucks, other than pick-ups or vans, used for business purposes such as
deliveries or hauling cargo for profit.
(Prior Code, § 8.02) (Ord. 237, passed 7-26-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle by turning so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any street except at a street
intersection, and then only if the street intersection is not sign posted
prohibiting a U-turn or otherwise controlled by a traffic signal; provided,
that any person making a permitted U-turn shall yield the right-of-way to all
other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 8.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   (A)   Prima facie evidence. It shall be prima facie evidence of exhibition
driving when a motor vehicle stops, starts, accelerates, decelerates or turns
at an unnecessary rate of speed so as to cause tires to squeal, gears to grind,
soil to be thrown, engine backfire, fishtailing or skidding, or, as to two-
wheeled or three-wheeled motor vehicles, the front wheel to lose contact with
the ground or roadway surface.
   (B)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful for any person to do any exhibition
driving on any street, parking lot or other public or private property, except
when an emergency creates necessity for the operation to prevent injury to
persons or damage to property; provided, that this section shall not apply to
driving on a racetrack. For purposes of this section, RACETRACK shall mean a
facility specifically designed for the holding of motor vehicle race events.
(Prior Code, § 8.05) (Ord. 297, passed 10-11-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 ELECTRIC-ASSISTED BICYCLES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ELECTRIC-ASSISTED BICYCLE. Electric bicycles, which are commonly referred
to as e-bikes, include Class 1 electric-assisted bicycles, Class 2 electric-
assisted bicycles and Class 3 electric-assisted bicycles as defined in M.S. §
169.011, sub. 15a, 15b, and 15c, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Riding rules.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every person
operating an electric-assisted bicycle shall have all rights and duties
applicable to the rider of a bicycle under this chapter and M.S. Chapter 169,
as it may be amended from time to time, as they relate to bicycles and
electric-assisted bicycles.
      (2)   The rider of an electric-assisted bicycle must slow their speed at
any sidewalk intersection with a driveway or parking lot and use due care while
crossing.
      (3)   Any person under the age of 18 operating an electric-assisted
bicycle shall wear a helmet or other headgear approved for bicycle riding by
the United States Department of Transportation or the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI).
   (C)   Prohibited operation. It is unlawful to operate an electric-assisted
bicycle:
      (1)   On natural or artificial turf, playfield, playground, court, ice
rink, natural area or structure located in a designated public park; or
      (2)   At a speed greater than 15 mph when not riding in a bike lane or
legally riding on a roadway.
(Ord. 297, passed 10-11-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 DRIVING THROUGH PRIVATE PROPERTY TO AVOID TRAFFIC SIGNAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to avoid obedience to any traffic control
device by driving upon or through any private property.
(Prior Code, § 8.07) (Ord. 297, passed 10-11-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Council may, by resolution, designate streets as one-way streets.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to travel upon any one-way street
in a direction opposite the designated direction duly sign posted.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) (Ord. 297, passed 10-11-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to vehicles when operated
with due regard for safety, under the direction of police officers in the chase
or apprehension of violators of the law or of persons charged with or suspected
of any violation, nor to Fire Department or fire patrol vehicles when traveling
in response to a fire alarm, nor to public ambulances when traveling in
emergencies. This exemption shall not, however, protect the driver of any
vehicle from liability arising out of a reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
(Prior Code, § 8.09) (Ord. 297, passed 10-11-2025)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Regulation of recreational vehicles
   
71.02   Regulation of specialty vehicles
Bicycles
   
71.15   Traffic rules apply
   
71.16   Right-of-way; sidewalks
   
71.17   Carrying articles
Snowmobiles
   
71.30   Definitions
   
71.31   Scope of application
   
71.32   Special orders
   
71.33   Direct crossings
   
71.34   Yielding the right-of-way
   
71.35   Persons under 18
   
71.36   Equipment
   
71.37   Locking vehicles
   
71.38   Emergencies
   
71.39   Animals
   
71.40   Signal from officer to stop
   
71.41   Certain statutes adopted
In-Line Skates, Roller Skates and Skate Boards
   
71.55   Definitions
   
71.56   Prohibitions
   
71.57   Yielding right-of-way
   
71.58   Attaching to vehicles
   
71.59   Operation
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 71.01 REGULATION OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to provide
reasonable regulations for the use of specialty and recreational motor vehicles
on public and private property in the city. This section is not intended to
allow what the state statutes prohibit or to prohibit what the state statutes
expressly allow. It is intended to ensure the public safety and prevent a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle
propelled or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes
including, but not limited to trail bike, off-highway motorcycle, as defined by
M.S. § 84.787, subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time, or other all-
terrain vehicle as defined by M.S. § 84.90 and M.S. § 84.92, subd. 8-10, as it
may be amended from time to time, or motorized go-carts, hovercraft or motor
vehicle licensed for highway operation, which is being used for off-road
recreational purposes, but not including motorized golf carts, personal
electric mobility devices, motorized foot scooters, neighborhood electric
vehicles, medium-speed electric vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (C)   Recreational vehicle operation requirements. It is unlawful for any
person to operate a recreational motor vehicle as listed below:
      (1)   No person shall enter on any land not owned by the person for the
purpose of operating a recreational motor vehicle without specific written or
oral permission from the owner, or person with lawful control of the property;
      (2)   On publicly owned land, including schools, city streets,
boulevards, park property, playgrounds, recreation areas, golf courses and
greenways, except where permitted by this section, and as permitted by M.S. §
84.90, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (a)   An all-terrain vehicle, as defined by M.S. § 84.92, subd. 8, as
it may be amended from time to time, Class 1 ATV, as defined by M.S. § 84.92
subd. 9, as it may be amended from time to time, and Class 2 ATV, as defined by
M.S. § 84.92, subd. 10, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be
permitted to operate on a city street, or other city roadway and parking lot
designed for vehicular traffic in accordance with this title.
         (b)   A snowmobile, as defined under M.S. § 84.81, as it may be
amended from time to time, may be operated on a city street for the exclusive
purpose of traveling the most direct route to, and from a place designated or
permissible for operation. A snowmobile must be operated as far to the right of
the roadway nearest the curb as practical.
      (3)   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise
that disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons;
      (4)   On a public sidewalk, walkway, walking path or bike trail provided
or used for pedestrian or bicycle travel;
      (5)   At a place while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
narcotics or habit-forming drugs;
      (6)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the
surrounding circumstances;
      (7)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property or to cause injury or
damage thereto;
      (8)   On any public street, highway or right-of-way unless registered
pursuant to state law;
      (9)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal, wild or
domestic.
      (10)   By halting any recreational motor vehicle carelessly or heedlessly
in disregard of the rights or the safety of others or in a manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property;
      (11)   Without a functioning headlight, taillight and stoplight;
      (12)   Without a brake operational by either hand or foot;
      (13)   On residential lots less than two and one-half acres in size
unless the purpose is for maintenance, plowing or other work-related
activities;
      (14)   Helmet and seatbelts requirements shall be regulated in accordance
with M.S. § 84.9256, subd. 2, Helmet and Seatbelts Required, as it may be
amended from time to time; and
      (15)   All-terrain vehicles and passengers.
         (a)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate a Class 1 all-
terrain vehicle while carrying a passenger except for a parent or lawful
guardian. For the purposes of this section, a CLASS 1 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE means
an all-terrain vehicle that has a total dry weight of less than 900 pounds.
         (b)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate a Class 2 all-
terrain vehicle while carrying a passenger except for a parent or lawful
guardian. For the purposes of this section, a CLASS 2 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE means
an all-terrain vehicle that has a total dry weight of 1,000 to 1,800 pounds.
   (D)   Street crossings.
      (1)   No person under 12 years of age operating the vehicles regulated
herein shall make a direct crossing of any street, highway or public right-of-
way; or operate a vehicle regulated herein on a public street, highway or road
right-of-way; or operate a vehicle regulated herein on public lands or waters,
except that a person at least ten years of age but under 12 years of age may
operate an all-terrain vehicle with an engine capacity up to 90cc on public
lands or waters if accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle may make a direct crossing of a public road
right-of-way; provided:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the road and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the road;
         (c)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard;
         (d)   In crossing a divided road, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of the road with another public road; and
         (e)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
   (E)   Hours of operation. Hours for use are sunrise to sunset.
   (F)   Minimum equipment requirements.
      (1)   Standard mufflers shall be properly attached and in constant
operation to reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum
necessary for operation. No person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass,
straight pipe or similar device on a recreational motor vehicle motor. The
exhaust system shall not emit or produce a sharp popping or crackling sound, or
emit in excess of 99 db from a distance of 20 inches.
      (2)   Brakes shall be adequate to control the movement of and to stop and
hold under any conditions of operation.
      (3)   At least one clear lamp shall be attached to the front with
sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least
100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric
conditions. The head lamp shall be so that glaring rays are not projected into
the eyes of an oncoming vehicle operator. It shall also be equipped with at
least one red tail lamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to
exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. This
equipment shall be required and shall be in operating condition when the
vehicle is operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset and one-
half hour before sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility.
   (G)   Designation of public areas for use.
      (1)   The Council may designate areas and exclusive city streets for use
of recreational motor vehicles by ordinance approval by a majority of the
members of the City Council. The areas designated may be changed from time to
time by the City Council. Any area designated shall be published in the
official newspaper of the city. If an area is changed, the change shall be
published in like manner in the official newspaper of the city. An up-to-date
map of any designated park areas open for recreational motor vehicle use shall
be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk, who shall provide on request a
copy of the map together with the applicable rules, regulations and this
section to each person requesting the information from the city.
      (2)   Unless designated by the City Council as an area for recreational
motor vehicles, the use on city park property and city streets shall be
unlawful. Further, the use of city parks designated by the City Council shall
be in accordance with all of the applicable provisions of this section.
   (H)   Public safety usage. Notwithstanding the prohibitions in this section,
a recreational vehicle may be operated in a time, a place deemed appropriate by
an official public safety entity in accordance with their lawful duties.
   (I)   Penalty. All violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor
offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.11) (Ord. 237, passed 7-26-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 REGULATION OF SPECIALTY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DRIVER. The person driving and having physical control over the motorized
golf cart, utility task vehicle, all-terrain vehicle or mini-truck and being
the licensee.
      MINI-TRUCK. As defined in M.S. § 169.011, subd. 40(a), as it may be
amended from time to time, a motor vehicle that has four wheels; is propelled
by an electric motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal
combustion engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters
or less; has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds; contains an enclosed
cabin and a seat for a vehicle operator; commonly resembles a pick-up truck or
van, including a cargo area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle; and was
not originally manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards
required of motor vehicles in 49 C.F.R. §§ 571.101 to 571.404, and successor
requirements. A MINI-TRUCK does not include: a neighborhood electric vehicle or
a medium-speed electric vehicle; or a motor vehicle that meets or exceeds the
regulations in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500, as it may be amended from time to time.
      MOTORIZED GOLF CART. Any passenger conveyance being driven with four
wheels with four low-pressure tires that is limited in engine displacement of
less than 800 cubic centimeters and total dry weight of less than 800 pounds.
      UTILITY TASK VEHICLE. As defined by M.S. § 169.045, subd. 1(3), as it may
be amended from time to time. A side-by-side, four-wheel drive, off-road
vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an internal combustion engine
with a piston displacement capacity of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less and has
a total dry weight of 1,800 but less than 2,600 pounds.
   (B)   Permit required for operation of specialty vehicles. No person shall
operate a motorized golf cart, utility task vehicle, all-terrain vehicle or
mini-truck on streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public property without
obtaining a permit as provided herein.
      (1)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by
the city and shall contain all of the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Nature of the applicant’s physical handicap, if any;
         (c)   Model name, make and year and number of the motorized golf cart,
all-terrain vehicle or mini-truck;
         (d)   Current driver’s license or reason for not having a current
license; and
         (e)   Other information as the city may require.
      (2)   Any applicable permit fees shall be as set forth in the adopted
city’s fee schedule.
      (3)   Permits shall be granted for a period of up to three years and may
be renewed.
      (4)   No permit shall be granted or renewed unless the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   The applicant must demonstrate that he or she currently holds or
has held a valid state driver’s license to operate a mini-truck;
         (b)   The applicant may be required to submit a certificate signed by
a physician that the applicant is able to safely operate a utility task vehicle
or all-terrain vehicle on the roadways designated;
         (c)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance
with the provisions of state statutes concerning insurance coverage for the
motorized golf cart, utility task vehicle, all-terrain vehicle or mini-truck;
and
         (d)   The applicant has not had his or her driver’s license revoked as
the result of criminal proceedings.
      (5)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles, all-terrain vehicles
and mini-trucks are permitted to operate only on city streets, not state or
federal highways, except to cross at designated intersections.
      (6)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles and all-terrain
vehicles may only be operated on designated roadways from sunrise to sunset
only. They shall not be operated in inclement weather conditions or at any time
when there is insufficient light to clearly see person and vehicles at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (7)   Motorized golf carts shall visibly display the slow-moving vehicle
emblem provided for in M.S. § 169.045, as it may be amended from time to time,
when operated on designated roadways.
      (8)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles, all-terrain vehicles
and mini-trucks shall be equipped with a rear-view mirror to provide the driver
with adequate vision from behind as required by M.S. § 169.70, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (9)   The operator of a motorized golf cart, utility task vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle or mini-truck may cross any street or highway intersecting a
designated roadway.
      (10)   The Chief of Police may suspend or revoke a permit granted
hereunder upon a finding that the holder thereof if there is evidence that the
permit holder cannot safely operate the motorized golf cart, utility task
vehicle, all-terrain vehicle or mini-truck on the designated roadways. The
applicant reserves the right to appeal this suspension or revocation to the
City Council. Penalties may include the following:
         (a)   All driving offenses are subject to the provisions of the M.S.
Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to time, and drivers may be subject
to an appearance in District Court. Citable offenses may result in a revocation
of the permit. Vehicles found without a permit or in violation of equipment
requirements may be cited administratively and under the provisions of the city
fee schedule.
         (b)   Revocations are subject to the severity of the offense alleged
or observed and investigated by the Police Department. The permit holder is
subject to the provisions of this chapter in which the following may occur:
            1.   First offense: revocation of permit for one year from the date
of the offense, $75 administrative fine;
            2.   Second offense: revocation of permit for three years from the
date of the offense, $150 administrative fine; and
            3.   Third offense: revocation of permit is indefinite, $300
administrative fine.
         (c)   Reinstatement of a permit requires a new permit registration to
be completed and submitted.
      (11)   The number of occupants on the motorized golf cart, utility task
vehicle, all-terrain vehicle or mini-truck may not exceed the design occupant
load.
      (12)   Every person operating a motorized golf cart, utility task
vehicle, an all-terrain vehicle or mini-truck, under permit on designated
roadways has all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any other
vehicle under the provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from
time to time, except when these provisions cannot reasonably be applied to
motorized golf carts or mini-trucks and except as otherwise specifically
provided in M.S. § 169.045, subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (13)   Operation of a motorized golf cart for access for use at Pebble
Creek Golf Course will require a separate permit from Pebble Creek Golf Course.
This permit will require an inspection prior to use on the golf course and
payment of a fee as designated in the city fee schedule.
      (14)   Any person driving a motorized golf cart must have a valid
driver’s license and be in compliance with M.S. Chapter 171, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   Authorized operators. Authorized city staff may operate city owned
motorized golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, utility task vehicles and mini-
trucks without obtaining a permit within the city on city streets, sidewalks,
trails, rights-of-way and public property when conducting official city
business.
   (D)   Mini-truck equipment requirements.
      (1)   A mini-truck may be operated under permit on designated roadways if
it is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   At least two headlamps;
         (b)   At least two tail lamps;
         (c)   Front and rear turn-signal lamps;
         (d)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the vehicle
and either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger’s side of the vehicle or
an interior mirror;
         (e)   A windshield;
         (f)   A seat belt for the driver and front passenger; and
         (g)   A parking brake.
      (2)   All violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor offense.
   (E)   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices.
      (1)   An ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE is a self-balancing
device with two non-tandem wheels, designed to transport not more than one
person, and operated by an electric propulsion system that limits the maximum
speed of the device to 15 mph.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a person operating an electric
personal assistive mobility device has the rights and responsibilities of a
pedestrian.
      (3)   (a)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may be
operated on a bicycle path.
         (b)   No person may operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device on a roadway, sidewalk or bicycle path at a rate of speed that is not
reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Every person operating an electric
personal assistive mobility device on a roadway, sidewalk or bicycle path is
responsible for becoming and remaining aware of the actual and potential
hazards then existing on the roadway or sidewalk and must use due care in
operating the device.
         (c)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated
on a roadway only under the following circumstances:
            1.   While making a direct crossing of a roadway in a marked or
unmarked crosswalk;
            2.   Where no sidewalk is available;
            3.   Where a sidewalk is so obstructed as to prevent safe use;
            4.   When so directed by a traffic control device or by a peace
officer; and/or
            5.   Temporarily in order to gain access to a motor vehicle.
         (d)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be
operated at any time on a roadway with a speed limit of more than 35 mph except
to make a direct crossing of the roadway in a marked crosswalk.
         (e)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be
operated at any time while carrying more than one person.
         (f)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate exclusive city
streets within its jurisdiction where the operation of electric personal
assistive mobility devices is not permitted, provided that any street so
designated has a speed limit of more than 35 mph.
         (g)   A person operating an electric personal assistive mobility
device on a sidewalk must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians at all times. A
person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device on a bicycle
path must yield the right-of-way to bicycles at all times.
         (h)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be
operated unless the device bears reflectorized material on the front, back and
wheels, visible at night from 600 feet when illuminated by the lower beams of
headlamps of a motor vehicle.
      (4)   All violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor offense.
   (F)   Motorized foot scooters.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (F), the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTER. A device with handlebars designed to be stood
or sat upon by the operator, and powered by an internal combustion engine or
electric motor that is capable of propelling the device with or without human
propulsion, and that has no more than two 12-inch or smaller diameter wheels
and has an engine or motor that is capable of a maximum speed of 15 mph on a
flat surface with not more than 1% grade in any direction when the motor is
engaged. An electric personal assistive mobility device, a motorized bicycle,
an electric-assisted bicycle or a motorcycle is not a MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTER.
      (2)   (a)   Operation of a motorized foot scooter on city bicycle paths,
bicycle lanes, bicycle trails or bikeways is prohibited except as provided in
this section. The City Council may, by resolution, designate specific bicycle
paths, bicycle lanes, bicycle trails or bikeways as available for use by
motorized foot scooters.
         (b)   Every person operating a motorized foot scooter shall have all
rights and duties applicable to the operator of a bicycle, except in respect to
those provisions relating expressly to motorized foot scooters and in respect
to those provisions of law that by their nature cannot reasonably be applied to
motorized foot scooters.
         (c)   No person may operate a motorized foot scooter upon a sidewalk,
except when necessary to enter or leave adjacent property. No person may
operate a motorized foot scooter that is carrying any person other than the
operator.
         (d)   No person under the age of 12 years may operate a motorized foot
scooter.
         (e)   No person under the age of 18 years may operate a motorized foot
scooter without wearing properly fitted and fastened protective headgear that
complies with standards established by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
         (f)   A motorized foot scooter must be equipped with a headlight and a
taillight that comply with standards established by the Commissioner of Public
Safety if the vehicle is operated under conditions when vehicle lights are
required by law.
         (g)   A person operating a motorized foot scooter on a roadway shall
ride as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway,
except in the following situations:
            1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
            2.   When preparing for a left turn, in which case the operator
shall stop and dismount at the right hand curb or right edge of the roadway,
and shall complete the turn by crossing the roadway on foot, subject to
restrictions placed by law on pedestrians; and
            3.   When reasonably necessary to avoid impediments or conditions
that make it unsafe to continue along the right hand curb or edge, including,
but not limited to, fixed or moving objects, vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals, surface hazards or narrow lanes.
      (3)   All violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor offense.
   (G)   Medium-speed electric vehicles and neighborhood electric vehicles.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (G), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         MEDIUM SPEED ELECTRIC VEHICLE. An electrically powered four-wheeled
motor vehicle, equipped with a roll cage or crushproof body design, that can
attain a maximum speed of 35 mph on a paved level surface, is fully enclosed
and has at least one door for entry, has a wheelbase of 40 inches or greater
and a wheel diameter of ten inches or greater, and except with respect to
maximum speed, otherwise meets or exceeds regulations in the 49 C.F.R. §
571.500, and successor requirements.
         NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLE. An electrically powered motor vehicle
that has three or four wheels and has a speed attainable in one mile of at
least 20 mph, but not more than 25 mph on a paved level surface.
      (2)   Operation.
         (a)   Operation of neighborhood electric vehicles on city streets is
prohibited.
         (b)   Use on designated exclusive city streets. The City Council may,
by ordinance, designate exclusive city streets within its jurisdiction where
the operation of neighborhood electric vehicles or medium-speed electric
vehicles is permissible, provided that no street so designated has a speed
limit of more than 35 mph.
         (c)   A neighborhood electric vehicle or a medium-speed electric
vehicle may be operated on public streets and highways only if it meets all
equipment and vehicle safety requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (3)   Authorized operators. Authorized city staff may operate city owned
neighborhood electric vehicles and medium-speed electric vehicles within the
city on city streets, sidewalks, trails, rights-of-way and public property when
conducting city business.
      (4)   Penalty. All violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor
offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.11) (Ord. 237, passed 7-26-2021; Ord. 260, passed 8-22-2022)
Penalty, see §
10.99
**** BICYCLES ****
§ 71.15 TRAFFIC RULES APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this
chapter, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to
those provisions of this chapter which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 8.03)
§ 71.16 RIGHT-OF-WAY; SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before
overtaking and passing the pedestrian. Provided, that it is unlawful for any
person to ride a bicycle on a sidewalk contrary to sign posted prohibitions.
(Prior Code, § 8.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.17 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry any package,
bundle or article which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon
the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 8.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** SNOWMOBILES ****
§ 71.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEADMAN THROTTLE or SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which, when pressure is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be
disengaged from the driving mechanism.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder having a property interest in or
title to a snowmobile, or a person entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
steered by skis or runners.
(Prior Code, § 8.10)
§ 71.31 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   Notwithstanding provisions of this subchapter to the contrary, this section
shall apply to control of traffic and regulation of that certain class of
vehicles falling within the definition of snowmobiles as to matters set forth
herein. All provisions of this subchapter, not relating to matters herein
stated, apply as equally to snowmobiles as other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 8.10)
§ 71.32 SPECIAL ORDERS.
   It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile on any public place where prohibited
by order of the city. The City Administrator shall have the power, by written
order, to prohibit the operation whenever in his or her discretion the same
would be likely to produce damage to property or endanger the safety or repose
of other persons. These areas shall be appropriately sign posted before the
order shall become effective.
(Prior Code, § 8.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.33 DIRECT CROSSINGS.
   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway, except an
interstate highway or freeway, provided:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way;
   (C)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on coming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of the street or highway with another public street or highway;
   (E)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on; and
   (F)   A snowmobile may be operated upon a bridge, other than a bridge that
is part of the main traveled lanes of an interstate highway, when required for
the purpose of avoiding obstructions to travel when no other method of
avoidance is possible; provided the snowmobile is operated in the extreme right
hand lane, the entrance to the roadway is made within 100 feet of the bridge
and the crossing is made without undue delay.
(Prior Code, § 8.10)
§ 71.34 YIELDING THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It is unlawful for any person operating a snowmobile to enter any
intersection without yielding the right-of-way to any vehicles or pedestrians
at the intersection, or so close to the intersection as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
(Prior Code, § 8.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.35 PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 14 years to operate a
snowmobile on streets, in city parks or other public land, or the roadway
surface of highways, or make a direct crossing of a trunk, county state aid or
county highway as the operator of a snowmobile. A person 14 years of age or
older, but less than 18 years of age, may operate a snowmobile as permitted
under this section, only if he or she has in his or her possession, a safety
certificate issued by the Commissioner, as provided by M.S. § 84.872, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile
to be operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.36 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within the
city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cut out, by pass, straight pipe or similar device on
a snowmobile;
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation;
   (C)   A safety or so called “deadman” throttle in operating condition;
   (D)   When operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one-
half hour before sunrise or at a time of reduced visibility, at least one clear
lamp attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and
vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness
and under normal atmospheric conditions. The head lamp shall be so aimed that
glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile
operator. It shall also be equipped with at least one red tail lamp having a
minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during the hours of darkness
under normal atmospheric conditions; and
   (E)   Reflective material at least 16 inches on each side, forward of the
handlebars or steering device of a snowmobile and at the highest practical
point on any towed object, as to reflect light at a 90 degree angle.
(Prior Code, § 8.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.37 LOCKING VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to leave a snowmobile on a public place unless
he or she shall lock the ignition, remove the key and take the same with him or
her.
(Prior Code, § 8.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.38 EMERGENCIES.
   Notwithstanding the prohibition of operating a snowmobile upon a roadway to
the contrary, a snowmobile may be operated on a public thoroughfare in an
emergency during the period of time when, at locations where, snow upon the
roadway renders travel by automobile impractical.
(Prior Code, § 8.10)
§ 71.39 ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal
with a snowmobile.
(Prior Code, § 8.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.40 SIGNAL FROM OFFICER TO STOP.
   It is unlawful for a snowmobile operator, after having received a visible or
audible signal from any law enforcement officer to come to a stop, to:
   (A)   Operate a snowmobile in willful or wanton disregard of the signal;
   (B)   Interfere with or endanger the law enforcement officer or any other
person or vehicle; or
   (C)   Increase his or her speed or attempt to flee or elude the officer.
(Prior Code, § 8.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.41 CERTAIN STATUTES ADOPTED.
   M.S. §§ 84.81 through 84.911, inclusive, as amended from time to time,
together with rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, are adopted by
reference, incorporated herein and made a part hereof, except as otherwise
provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 8.10)
**** IN-LINE SKATES, ROLLER SKATES AND SKATE BOARDS ****
§ 71.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IN-LINE SKATES/ROLLER SKATES. A shoe with wheels attach or a device with
wheels which is designed to be attached to a shoe.
   OPERATE. To ride on or upon or control the operation of in-line skates,
roller skates or a skateboard.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of in-
line skates, roller skates or a skateboard.
   SKATEBOARDS. A device for riding upon, usually while standing, consisting of
an oblong piece of wood, or of other composition, mounted on skate wheels.
(Prior Code, § 7.14)
§ 71.56 PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate in-line skates, roller skates or a
skateboard under the circumstances set forth hereafter:
   (A)   On private property of another without the express permission to do so
by the owner or occupant of this property; and/or
   (B)   In any careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to cause or likely
cause:
      (1)   Nuisance;
      (2)   Endanger the safety of the actor or the safety of another person or
property; or harass another person; or
      (3)   Damage property of any person or business entity.
(Prior Code, § 7.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.57 YIELDING RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Any person operating in-line skates, roller skates or a skateboard shall
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and all vehicles at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.58 ATTACHING TO VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person operating in-line skates, roller skates or a
skateboard to attach the same, or the person of the operator, to any vehicles
upon the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.59 OPERATION.
   Every person operating in-line skates, roller skates or a skateboard upon a
roadway shall ride as close as possible to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7.14)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Presumption
   
72.02   General parking prohibitions
   
72.03   Winter parking
   
72.04   Parking in regard to snow plowing
   
72.05   Recreational camping vehicle parking
   
72.06   Unauthorized removal
   
72.07   Direction to proceed
   
72.08   Parallel parking
   
72.09   Angle parking
   
72.10   Streets without curb
   
72.11   Parking hours
   
72.12   Snow emergency
   
72.13   Truck parking
   
72.14   Parking rules in city parking lots and ramps
   
72.15   Impounding and removing vehicles
   
72.16   Loading zones
   
72.17   Unattended vehicle
   
72.18   Vehicle repair on street
   
72.19   Parking for the purpose of advertising or selling
   
72.20   Person’s with a disability parking
   
72.21   Parking on private property without consent
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PRESUMPTION.
   As to any vehicle parking in violation of this title when the driver thereof
is not present, it shall be presumed that the owner or lessee of the vehicle
parked the same, or that the driver was acting as the agent of the owner or
lessee.
(Prior Code, § 9.01)
§ 72.02 GENERAL PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
specific directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following places within the city:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at any intersection;
   (G)   In a sign posted fire lane;
   (H)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
this entrance when properly sign posted;
   (K)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (L)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (M)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street;
   (N)   At any place where official signs prohibit or restrict stopping,
parking or both;
   (O)   In any alley, except for loading or unloading and then only so long as
reasonably necessary for the loading and unloading to or from adjacent
premises; or
   (P)   On any boulevard which has been curbed.
(Prior Code, § 9.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 WINTER PARKING.
   No vehicle shall park on any street or roadway between the hours of 12:01
a.m. and 8:00 a.m. from November 1 through April 15, except emergency vehicles,
on any city street.
(Prior Code, § 9.03) (Ord. 38, passed 2-6-1999; Ord. 244, passed 10-13-2021)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING IN REGARD TO SNOW PLOWING.
   After a snowfall of two inches or more, all streets in the city shall be
cleared of all motor vehicles and parts thereof, for the purpose of snowplowing
and/or removal, until the streets are plowed. Any motor vehicle or parts
thereof left on any street or boulevard in the city in a way so as to impede
their performance of the city, county and/or state snowplows shall be dealt
with under the penalty provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.03) (Ord. 38, passed 2-6-1999) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE PARKING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE. Any of the following:
         CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure, mounted on wheels and designed
for travel, recreation and vacation uses.
         MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary building to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
         PICK UP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis
for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
         TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses, permanently identified TRAVEL TRAILER by the manufacturer of the
trailer.
   (B)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful for any person to leave or park a
recreational camping vehicle on or within the limits of any street or public
right-of-way for a continuous period in excess of 72 hours, except where signs
are erected designating the place as a campsite or in a mobile home park.
Provided, however, that during the 72-hour period, the vehicle shall not be
occupied as living quarters.
(Prior Code, § 9.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to move a vehicle not owned, leased or under
the control of the person into any prohibited area or away from a curb such
distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 9.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 DIRECTION TO PROCEED.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop or park a vehicle on a street when
directed or ordered to proceed by any police officer invested by law with
authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 9.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Except where angle parking is specifically allowed and indicated by curb or
street marking or sign posting, any vehicle stopped or parked upon a two-way
road where there is an adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right
hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with, and within 12 inches of, the right
hand curb, and, where painted markings appear on the curb or the street, the
vehicle shall be within the markings, front and rear; provided that upon a one-
way roadway all vehicles shall be so parked, except that the left hand wheels
of the vehicle may be parallel with and within 12 inches from the left hand
curb, but the front of the vehicle shall face in the direction of the flow of
traffic upon the one-way street.
(Prior Code, § 9.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 ANGLE PARKING.
   Where angle parking has been established by Council resolution, and is
allowed, as shown by curb or street marking or sign posting, any vehicle
stopped or parked shall be at an angle of approximately 45 to 60 degrees with
the front wheel touching the curb and within any parking lines painted on the
curb or street.
(Prior Code, § 9.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 STREETS WITHOUT CURB.
   Upon streets not having a curb each vehicle shall be stopped or parked
parallel and to the right of the paved, improved or main traveled part of the
street.
(Prior Code, § 9.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 PARKING HOURS.
   Parking on streets shall be limited as follows.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing any
vehicle upon any street for a continuous period in excess of 72 hours.
   (B)   The City Administrator may, when authorized by resolution of the
Council, designate certain streets, blocks or portions of streets or blocks as
prohibited parking zones, or five-minute, ten-minute, 15-minute, 30-minute,
one-hour, two-hour, four-hour, six-hour, eight-hour or morning or afternoon
rush hour limited parking zones and shall designate by appropriate signs any
zones so established. The zones shall be established whenever necessary for the
convenience of the public or to minimize traffic hazards and preserve a free
flow of traffic. It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle in a prohibited parking zone, for a period of time in excess of the
sign posted limitation, or during sign posted hours of prohibited parking.
   (C)   For the purpose of enforcement of this section, any vehicle moved less
than one block in a limited time parking zone shall be deemed to have remained
stationary.
(Prior Code, § 9.10) (Ord. 244, passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Application. Notwithstanding any other provision of the city code,
this section shall apply to all snow emergencies and snow emergency routes.
   (B)   Declaration of emergency. The city may declare a snow emergency, as
determined by the City Council designee. The declaration of a snow emergency
shall be communicated to local news media. Failure to communicate with the news
media shall not invalidate this declaration.
   (C)   Emergency in effect; expiration and extension.
      (1)   Four hours after a snow emergency has been declared, it shall be in
effect.
      (2)   Twenty-four hours after a snow emergency has been declared, it
shall expire, unless at least two hours before the expiration of the initial
snow emergency or any extension thereof, a declaration of extension is made by
communicating the same to the news media, the snow emergency shall be extended
for an additional 24-hour period. Failure to communicate with the news media
shall not invalidate the extension.
   (D)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful to park or leave standing any motor
vehicle in a sign posted snow emergency route during a declared snow emergency.
(Prior Code, § 9.11) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 124, passed 12-1-2007)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park a detached semi-trailer upon any street, city
owned parking lot or other public property except where parking is specifically
allowed by sign posted notice.
   (B)   It is unlawful to park a truck of more than 12,000 pounds gross
vehicle weight, a truck trailer, tractor trailer or truck tractor within an
area zoned as a residential district except for the purpose of loading or
unloading the same, and then only during the time as is reasonably necessary
for the activity.
   (C)   It is unlawful to park a commercial vehicle of more than 12,000 pounds
gross vehicle weight upon any street in the business district except streets as
specifically designated by the Council by resolution and sign posted, but
parking of the vehicle for a period of not more than 20 minutes shall be
permitted in the space for the purpose of necessary access to abutting property
while actively loading or unloading when the access cannot reasonably be
secured from an alley or from an adjacent street where truck parking is not so
restricted.
   (D)   It is unlawful to park a vehicle equipped with a trailer or extended
body or other extension or projection beyond the original length of the
vehicle, or any passenger bus, diagonally along any street except for a time
sufficient to load or unload, and in this case, only parallel parking shall be
permitted. Provided, however, that a truck may be parked perpendicular to the
curb if the weight or bulk of the load makes parallel parking impracticable,
but then only for a period of time sufficient to load or unload.
   (E)   Parking of commercial vehicles is permitted in duly designated and
sign posted loading zones, and in alleys, for a period of up to 20 minutes for
the purpose of access to abutting or adjacent property while actively loading
or unloading; provided that the alley parking does not prevent the flow of
traffic therein.
(Prior Code, § 9.20) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 PARKING RULES IN CITY PARKING LOTS AND RAMPS.
   (A)   In city owned parking lots and ramps, the Council may limit the sizes
and types of motor vehicles to be parked thereon, hours of parking, and
prescribed method of parking, provided that the limitations and restrictions
are marked or sign posted thereon. It is unlawful to drive in a direction
opposite the direction designated by signs or arrows, or to park any vehicle in
any city owned parking lot or ramp contrary to the restrictions or limitations
marked or sign posted therein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to use any parking area owned by the city for the
purposes of sales of equipment or motor vehicles, except for the occasional
parking of vehicles with for sale or other signs parked for a limited duration.
In no instance shall vehicles with signs offering sales be allowed within city
parking areas for a duration exceeding 12 hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.21) (Ord. 38, passed 2-6-1999; Ord. 244, passed 10-13-2021)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 IMPOUNDING AND REMOVING VEHICLES.
   When any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or city owned
parking lot in violation of any parking regulation, the officer is authorized
to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to remove the
same to a position in compliance with this chapter. When any police officer
finds a vehicle unattended upon any street or city owned parking lot in
violation of any parking regulation, the officer is authorized to impound the
unlawfully parked vehicle and to provide for the removal thereof and to remove
the same to a convenient garage or other facility or place of safety; provided,
that if any charge shall be placed against the vehicle for cost of removal or
storage, or both, by anyone called upon to assist therewith the same shall be
paid prior to removal from the place of storage or safekeeping.
(Prior Code, § 9.22)
§ 72.16 LOADING ZONES.
   The Council may, by resolution, establish loading zones to be used for the
specific purpose of loading or unloading merchandise from a commercial vehicle
or vehicle temporarily being utilized in the transport of merchandise. The
loading zones shall be installed by order of the city where, in the judgment of
the Council, a commercial loading zone is justified, and is duly sign posted.
(Prior Code, § 9.23)
§ 72.17 UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to leave a motor vehicle unattended
while the engine is running.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave a motor vehicle unattended with
the key in the ignition.
(Prior Code, § 9.24) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 VEHICLE REPAIR ON STREET.
   It is unlawful for any person to service, repair, assemble or dismantle any
vehicle parked upon a street, or attempt to do so, except to service the
vehicle with gasoline or oil or to provide emergency repairs thereon, but in no
event for more than four hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 PARKING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING OR SELLING.
   It is unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on any street for the
purpose of advertising the vehicle for sale, for the purpose of advertising for
sale or selling merchandise thereon or therein, or advertising any merchandise
for sale or a forthcoming event.
(Prior Code, § 9.26) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 PERSON’S WITH A DISABILITY PARKING.
   (A)   Statutory parking privileges for person’s with a disability shall be
strictly observed and enforced. Police officers are authorized to tag vehicles
on either private or public property in violation of the statutory privileges.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, whether or not a person with a
disability, to stop, park or leave standing, a motor vehicle:
      (1)   In a sign posted fire lane at any time; or
      (2)   In lanes where, and during such hours as, parking is prohibited to
accommodate heavy traffic during morning and afternoon rush hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.27) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT CONSENT.
   It is a misdemeanor to park or abandon a motor vehicle on the property of
another, or upon an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without
the consent of the owner, lessee or person in charge of any such property or
facility.
(Prior Code, § 9.28) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   A person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when that person performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, and upon conviction thereof, the violation shall be punishable as
follows.
   (A)   Where the specific section, division, paragraph or provision
specifically makes the violation thereof a misdemeanor, the violation shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or
under circumstances so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property, the violation shall be punishable as a misdemeanor; where the
violation constitutes the third or greater violation, exclusive of parking
violations, committed within a 12-month period, the violation shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any violation not punishable as a misdemeanor under the provisions of
division (A) above, shall be punishable as a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.99) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
      
II.   Restricted parking
      
III.   Truck parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
specific directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following designated areas within the city:
Street Side Location
Street    Side  Location
Birch     Both  Beginning at Pine View Drive and extending to Bank Street
Street    sides
Bradley   South Beginning at 3rd Street East and extending to Sherburne Avenue
Boulevard side
Edgewood  Both  From Sherburne Avenue to the Frontage Road
Street    sides
                From Edgewood Street extending to Pine Street
First           Exceptions:
Street    Both     a. 15-minute parking starting at 40 feet northwest of Pine Street
(Frontage sides intersection going northwesterly 170 feet thereafter
Road)              b. Parallel parking starting at 20 feet northwest of Rye Street
                intersection going northwesterly 130 feet thereafter
Hancock   East  Starting at the southeast curb line of the intersection of Rye and
Street    side  Hancock 419 feet southeast
Hancock   West  Starting a the northeast curb line of the entrance to the elementary
Street    side  school parking lot 90 feet northeast
Hancock   West  Starting at a point on the of 419 feet northwest of the curb corner of
Street    side  the intersection with Hancock to the southwest corner of the entrance
                to the elementary school parking lot
Pine View Both  Beginning at Oak View Drive and extending to Birch Street
Drive     sides
River     South Beginning at Bank Street and extending to the end of River Street
Street    side
Rye       East  Starting at the northeast curb line of Rye and Hancock to a point 65
Street    side  feet south
Rye       West  Starting at the northwest curb line of Rye and Hancock to a point 100
Street    side  feet south
 
(Prior Code, § 9.03) (Ord. 30, passed 6-23-1998; Ord. 47, passed 7-17-2000)
Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   Two-hour parking shall be designated for the following areas:
 
Street         Side       Location
Central Avenue North side From Hancock to 65 feet west
Central Avenue North side From Hancock to 250 feet east
Central Avenue South side From Hancock to 75 feet west
Central Avenue South side From Hancock to 300 feet east
Hancock Street Both sides From First Street to Central Avenue
Hancock Street            From the corner of 3rd Street north 419 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 9.03) (Ord. 5, passed 10-8-1995; Ord. 84, passed 4-17-2004)
Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE III. NO TRUCK PARKING.
   Truck parking is prohibited in the following areas:
 
Street      Side       Location
Bank Street South side East from Sherburne Avenue to the west edge of Oakview
                       Avenue
 
(Prior Code, § 9.03) (Ord. 26, passed 3-21-1998) Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
Dog Licensing and Regulation
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Running at large prohibited
   
90.03   License required and number of dogs restricted
   
90.04   License issuance, term and renewal
   
90.05   Adoption of fees
   
90.06   Tag required
   
90.07   Dog pound
   
90.08   Notice of impounding
   
90.09   Release from dog pound
   
90.10   Seizure by a citizen
   
90.11   Immobilization of dogs
   
90.12   Other unlawful acts
   
90.13   Summary destruction
   
90.14   Rabies control generally
   
90.15   Reports of bite cases
   
90.16   Responsibility of veterinarians
   
90.17   Police dogs; seeing-eye dogs
   
90.18   Dogs in heat
   
90.19   Animal defecation prohibited
   
90.20   Accumulation of feces prohibited
Dangerous Dogs and Potentially Dangerous Dogs
   
90.35   Purpose and intent
   
90.36   Definitions
   
90.37   Law enforcement exemption
   
90.38   Dangerous dogs designation
   
90.39   Potentially dangerous dogs designation
   
90.40   Potentially dangerous dogs requirements
Animals and Fowl Regulations
   
90.55   Definitions
   
90.56   Keeping
   
90.57   Animals in transit
   
90.58   Housing
   
90.59   Trespass
**** DOG LICENSING AND REGULATION ****
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has:
      (1)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human
being on public or private property;
      (2)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the owner’s
property; or
      (3)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
   DOG. Both male and female and includes any animal of the canine species.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing,
harboring, keeping, having an interest in or having care, custody or control of
a dog.
   POUNDMASTER. Any person or entity appointed by the Council to discharge the
duties provided for under this section.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 90.02 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat of any person who owns, harbors or
keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A person, who owns, harbors or keeps a dog
or cat which runs at large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a
leash and accompanied by a responsible person or accompanied by and under the
control and direction of a responsible person, so as to be effectively
restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in streets or on public
land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats
Prohibited”.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 LICENSE REQUIRED AND NUMBER OF DOGS RESTRICTED.
   It is a petty misdemeanor for any owner of a dog over six months of age, to
fail to obtain a proper city license therefor. The number of dogs permitted
shall not exceed three per dwelling unit, or four per multi-dwelling structure,
whichever is the lesser. Provided, that this section shall not apply to a
kennel licensed under the city code.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 LICENSE ISSUANCE, TERM AND RENEWAL.
   All dog licenses shall be issued only upon presentation of a certificate
issued by a veterinarian, licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the
state, showing rabies immunization of the dog for at least the term of the
license. All dog licenses shall be without limitation as to term, but must be
renewed upon expiration of the immunization period stated in the veterinarian’s
certificate originally presented by presentation of a new certificate.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 90.05 ADOPTION OF FEES.
   All fees for the licensing, impounding and maintenance of dogs, including
penalties for late application, may be fixed and determined by the Council,
adopted by resolution, and uniformly enforced. The fees may from time to time
be amended by the Council by resolution. A copy of the resolution setting forth
currently effective fees shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Administrator or City Clerk and open to inspection during regular business
hours.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000)
§ 90.06 TAG REQUIRED.
   All licensed dogs shall wear a collar and have a tag firmly affixed thereto
evidencing a current license. A duplicate for a lost tag may be issued by the
city upon presentation of the receipt showing the payment of the license fee.
The fee for a duplicate license shall be established by resolution of the City
Council. Tags shall not be transferable, and no refund shall be made on any
license fee because of leaving the city or death of the dog before the
expiration of the license.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) (Ord. 61, passed 8-25-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 DOG POUND.
   (A)   Any dog found in the city without a license tag, running at large or
otherwise in violation of this subchapter, shall be placed in the dog pound,
and an accurate record of the time of the placement shall be kept on each dog.
   (B)   Every dog so placed in the dog pound shall be held for redemption by
the owner for at least five regular business days. A REGULAR BUSINESS DAY is
one during which the pound is open for business to the public for at least four
hours between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (C)   Impoundment records shall be preserved for at least six months and
shall show:
      (1)   The description of the dog by specie, breed, sex, approximate age
and other distinguishing traits;
      (2)   The location at which the dog was seized;
      (3)   The date of seizure;
      (4)   The name and address of the person from whom any dog three months
of age or over was received; and
       (5)   The name and address of the person to whom any dog three months of
age or over was transferred.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 90.08 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDING.
   Upon the impounding of any dog, the owner shall be notified by the most
expedient means, or if the owner is unknown, written notice shall be posted for
five days at the City Hall describing the dog and the place and time of taking.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 90.09 RELEASE FROM DOG POUND.
   Dogs shall be released to their owners, as follows.
   (A)   If the dog is owned by a resident of the city, after purchase of a
license, if unlicensed, and payment of the impounding fee, maintenance and
immunization fee.
   (B)   If the dog is owned by a person not a resident of the city, after
immunization of any dog for rabies, and payment of the impounding fee and
maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 90.10 SEIZURE BY A CITIZEN.
   It is lawful for any person to seize and impound a dog so found running at
large and shall within six hours thereafter, notify the poundmaster of this
seizure. It shall be the duty of the poundmaster to place the dog in the city
pound. If the name of the owner of the dog so seized is known to the person who
first takes the dog into custody, he or she shall inform the poundmaster of the
name of the owner, and the address if known.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 90.11 IMMOBILIZATION OF DOGS.
   For the purpose of enforcement of this section any peace officer, or person
whose duty is dog control, may use a tranquilizer gun or other instrument for
the purpose of immobilizing and catching a dog.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 90.12 OTHER UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is a petty misdemeanor for the owner of any dog to:
   (A)   Fail to have the license tag issued by the city firmly attached to a
collar worn at all times by the licensed dog;
   (B)   Own a dangerous dog;
   (C)   Interfere with any police officer or other city employee in the
performance of his or her duty to enforce this section; or
   (D)   Fail to keep the owner’s dog from excessively barking, howling or
whining.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.13 SUMMARY DESTRUCTION.
   If a dog is diseased, vicious, dangerous, rabid or exposed to rabies and the
dog cannot be impounded after a reasonable effort or cannot be impounded
without serious risk to the person attempting to impound, the dog may be
destroyed in a humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 90.14 RABIES CONTROL GENERALLY.
   (A)   Every dog which bites a person shall be promptly reported to the Chief
of Police or poundmaster and shall, thereupon, be securely quarantined at the
direction of the Chief of Police or poundmaster for a period of ten days, and
shall not be released from the quarantine except by written permission of the
city. In the discretion of the Chief of Police, the quarantine may be on the
premises of the owner or at the veterinary hospital of his or her choice. If
the dog is quarantined on the premises of the owner, the city shall have access
to the dog at any reasonable time for study and observation of rabies symptoms.
In the case of a stray dog or in the case of a dog whose ownership is not
known, the quarantine shall be at the dog pound, or at the discretion of the
Chief of Police, the dog may be confined in a veterinary hospital designated by
him or her.
   (B)   The owners, upon demand made by the poundmaster or by any other city
employee empowered by the Council to enforce this section, shall forthwith
surrender any dog which has bitten a human, or which is suspected as having
been exposed to rabies, for the purpose of supervised quarantine. The expenses
of the quarantine shall be borne by the owner, and the dog may be reclaimed by
the owner only if adjudged free of rabies and after payment of fees as
authorized by this section and upon compliance with licensing provisions set
forth in this section.
   (C)   When any dog under quarantine and diagnosed as being rabid or
suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid dies or is killed, the city
shall immediately send the head of the dog and a rabies data report to the
State Health Department for pathological examination and shall notify all
persons concerned of the results of the examination.
   (D)   The city shall issue the proclamation and take the action when rabies
is suspected or exists as is required by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) (Ord. 190, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 90.15 REPORTS OF BITE CASES.
   It is the duty of every physician and health practitioner practicing within
the city to report to the Chief of Police the names and addresses of persons
treated for bites inflicted by dogs, together with the other information as
will be helpful in rabies control.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 90.16 RESPONSIBILITY OF VETERINARIANS.
   It is the duty of every veterinarian practicing within the city to report to
the Chief of Police any dog observed by the veterinarian and believed by the
veterinarian to have rabies.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 90.17 POLICE DOGS; SEEING-EYE DOGS.
   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the ownership or use of
seeing eye dogs by blind persons, or dogs used in police activities of the
city, such as canine corps or tracking dogs used by or with the permission of
the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 90.18 DOGS IN HEAT.
   Except for controlled breeding purposes, every female dog in heat shall be
kept confined in a building or secure enclosure, or in a veterinary hospital or
boarding kennel, in a manner that the female dog cannot come in contact with
other dogs.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.19 ANIMAL DEFECATION PROHIBITED.
   Any person being the owner of or having charge of any animal not confined to
that person’s property shall immediately remove any feces deposited on public
or private property. Any such person shall have in their possession a means to
collect and dispose of all fecal matter in a proper manner.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.20 ACCUMULATION OF FECES PROHIBITED.
   A person being the owner of or having charge of any animal shall keep their
premises free from an unreasonable accumulation of fecal matter.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) (Ord. 24, passed 8-9-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** DANGEROUS DOGS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS ****
§ 90.35 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the intent of the city to protect the public against the health and
safety risks posed by dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs. By their very
nature, dogs classified as “dangerous” or “potentially dangerous” pose a direct
threat to the people and other animals that live in the same community or may
otherwise come into contact with them. The intent of this subchapter is to
govern and control dangerous and potentially dangerous animals located within
the city. This subchapter does not regulate, govern or control animals not
considered dangerous or potentially dangerous, or otherwise impact the
regulation and control of other animals, whether wild or domestic.
(Prior Code, § 10.07) (Ord. 264, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 90.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. The City Police Department.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has:
      (1)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human
being on public or private property;
      (2)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the owner’s
property; and/or
      (3)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
received notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively
bites, attacks or endangers the safety of a human being or domestic animal.
   GREAT BODILY HARM. Shall have the meaning given it under M.S. § 609.02,
subd. 8, as it may be amended from time to time.
   HEARING OFFICER. An independent party designated by the Animal Control
Authority to review appeals to a dangerous animal or potentially dangerous
animal notification.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, association, department or
organization possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having
care, custody or control of a dog. Any person keeping or harboring a dog for
five consecutive days shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be deemed to be
an OWNER thereof.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has:
      (1)   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
      (2)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person
on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private property,
other than upon the dog owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or
      (3)   A known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked,
causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or domestic
animals.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors, or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and
providing protection from the elements for the dog. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not
include a porch, patio or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure in
which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
obstacles that prevent the animal from exiting.
   PROVOCATION. An act that an adult could reasonably expect may cause a dog to
attack or bite.
   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Shall have the meaning given to it under M.S. §
609.02, subd. 7a., as it may be amended from time to time.
   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely excited,
stimulated, agitated or disturbed. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that
any attack on a child 14 years of age or younger shall be considered to be
UNPROVOKED unless the child is engaged in the commission of a crime or illegal
activity, including activities classified under M.S. Chapter 343, as it may be
amended from time to time, as cruelty to animals.
(Prior Code, § 10.07) (Ord. 264, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 90.37 LAW ENFORCEMENT; EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to dogs used by law
enforcement officials for police work.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 90.38 DANGEROUS DOGS DESIGNATION.
   The Animal Control Authority shall designate any dog as a dangerous dog upon
receiving evidence that the animal meets any of the criteria in §
90.36.
(Prior Code, § 10.07) (Ord. 264, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 90.39 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS DESIGNATION.
   The Animal Control Authority shall designate any dog as a potentially
dangerous dog upon receiving evidence that the animal meets any of the criteria
in §
90.36.
(Prior Code, § 10.07) (Ord. 264, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 90.40 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Microchip. The owner of any dog that has been determined to be
potentially dangerous shall have a microchip installed.
   (B)   Registration. No person may own or possess a potentially dangerous dog
in this city unless the dog is registered as a potentially dangerous dog. All
dogs declared potentially dangerous by the Animal Control Authority, as
applicable, shall be registered as a potentially dangerous dog with the Animal
Control Authority within 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is
designated dangerous.
   (C)   Registration renewal. An owner of a potentially dangerous dog shall
renew the certificate of registration annually until the animal is deceased.
   (D)   Death or relocation of potentially dangerous dog. An owner of a
potentially dangerous dog shall notify the Animal Control Authority, in
writing, of the death of the dog, or if the dog relocates or transfers out of
the city to a new location or where the dog will reside within 30 days of the
death or transfer. An owner shall, if requested by the Animal Control
Authority, execute an affidavit, under oath and penalty of perjury, setting
forth either the circumstances of the dog’s death and disposition, or the
complete name, address and telephone number of the person to whom the dog was
transferred or the address where the dog has been relocated.
   (E)   Sale or transfer of potentially dangerous dogs. A person who sells or
transfers ownership or control of a potentially dangerous dog must notify any
potential purchaser or transferee, prior to the consummation of the
transaction, that the dog was previously designated as potentially dangerous.
The current owner must also notify the Animal Control Authority, in writing, of
the transfer of ownership and provide the Animal Control Authority with the new
owner’s name, address and telephone number.
   (F)   Release. If a potentially dangerous dog was impounded by the Animal
Control Authority, the dog shall not be released until the owner demonstrates
to the Animal Control Authority compliance with all applicable requirements of
this subchapter. The owner shall have 14 days to comply with all requirements.
The owner must pay the city for all costs incurred in the seizure and boarding
of the dog prior to its return.
   (G)   Other restrictions. Any dog determined to be potentially dangerous may
be subject to any or all of the following restrictions, as determined by the
Animal Control Authority or the hearing officer.
      (1)   The owner of a dog may be required to complete an approved animal
obedience class within a designated period of time, and provide proof of
completion to the Animal Control Authority.
      (2)   The dog shall be required to be kept in a proper enclosure, or
restrained by chain or leash not to exceed six feet in length, and/or muzzled,
and under the control of a responsible person 18 years of age or older at all
times it is outdoors and not inside a proper enclosure.
      (3)   The owner shall be required to show proof of up-to-date rabies
vaccination.
   (H)   Review of potentially dangerous dog designation. Beginning six months
after an animal is declared a potentially dangerous dog, an owner may request
annually that the Animal Control Authority review the designation. The owner
must provide evidence that the dog’s behavior has changed due to the dog’s age,
sterilization, environment, completion of obedience training that includes
modification of aggressive behavior or other factors. If the Animal Control
Authority finds sufficient evidence that the dog’s behavior has changed, the
Authority may rescind the potentially dangerous dog designation.
(Prior Code, § 10.07) (Ord. 264, passed 10-24-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** ANIMALS AND FOWL REGULATIONS ****
§ 90.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPANION ANIMAL. Any animal that is commonly kept by persons as a pet or
for companionship. This definition includes, but is not limited to:
domesticated dogs, domesticated cats, domesticated birds, gerbils, hamsters,
caged household birds and other animals commonly found in pet stores, not
including those defined as prohibited animals.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is livestock, a companion animal or both.
   EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES. Possession of a nonreleasable prohibited animal for
educational, or exhibition purposes as allowed only under a separate permit
from the State Department of Natural Resources, pursuant to Minn. Rules
6244.0800.
   FALCONRY PERMIT. A valid falconry permit issued by the Department of Natural
Resources, pursuant to Minn. Rules 6238.1250, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   FARM ANIMALS or LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to, cattle, horses,
mules, donkeys, sheep, goats, swine, ponies, ducks, geese, turkeys, chickens,
guinea hens, fowl, honey bees, mink, llamas, alpacas, deer, emu, ostrich, elk
or bison.
   PROHIBITED ANIMALS. Any animal that is not normally domesticated in the
United States or is wild by nature. PROHIBITED ANIMALS include, but are not
limited to, any of the following orders and families, whether bred in the wild
or captivity, and also any of their hybrids with domestic species. The
PROHIBITED ANIMALS listed in parentheses are intended to act as examples and
are not to be construed as an exhaustive list or limit the generality of each
group of PROHIBITED ANIMALS, unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   Non-human primates and prosimians (monkeys, chimpanzees, baboons,
gorillas);
      (2)   Felidae (lions, tigers, bobcats, cougars, leopards, jaguars, lynx
other non-domesticated cats);
      (3)   Canidae (wolves, coyotes, foxes, jackals, other non-domesticated
dogs);
      (4)   Ursidae (all bears);
      (5)   Repitilia (all venomous snakes, all constricting snakes in excess
of six feet);
      (6)   Crocodylidae and Alligatordae (crocodiles, alligators and caiman);
      (7)   Probosciadae (elephants);
      (8)   Hyanenidae (hyenas);
      (9)   Artiodatyla (hippopotamuses, giraffes, camels, not cattle or swine
or sheep or goats);
      (10)   Procyonidae (raccoons, coatis);
      (11)   Marsupialia (kangaroos, opossums);
      (12)   Perissodactylea (rhinoceroses, tapirs, not horses or donkeys or
mules);
      (13)   Edentara, (anteaters, sloth, armadillos);
      (14)   Viverridae, (mongooses, civets and genets);
      (15)   Arachnidae (specifically deadly spiders); and
      (16)   Any animal that is not normally domesticated in the United States
or is wild by nature.
   REGULATED ANIMAL. As defined under M.S. § 346.155, subd. 1(e), as it may be
amended from time to time.
   WILDLIFE REHABILITATOR. A person who has a valid Department of Natural
Resources novice, general or master class wildlife rehabilitation permit issued
pursuant to Minn. Rules 6244.0100 to 6244.2000 and a valid license from the
United States Fish and Wildlife Services.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 90.56 KEEPING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any:
      (1)   Farm animals or livestock except in areas zoned for agriculture
purposes; and/or
      (2)   Prohibited animals.
   (B)   Exceptions:
      (1)   Animals kept in animal hospitals or clinics for treatment by a
licensed veterinarian;
      (2)   Animals kept in a laboratory for scientific or experimental
purpose;
      (3)   Licensed humane societies (subject to proper zoning for farm
animals and livestock);
      (4)   Animal control officer, (acting in the course and scope of their
employment as valid licensed animal control officer);
      (5)   Conservation officer, (acting in the course and scope of their
employment as valid licensed conservation officer);
      (6)   A wildlife rehabilitator licensed by the State Department of
Natural Resources and the United States Fish and Wildlife Services who
temporarily keeps prohibited animal(s) when the purpose is to return the
prohibited animal(s) to the wild or to humanely euthanize the prohibited animal
(s);
      (7)   A person possessing a valid state issued falconry permit;
      (8)   Educational possession. A person may possess a prohibited animal
for educational purposes, so long as the person possesses all applicable state
and federal licenses applying to the possession of the prohibited animal;
      (9)   Temporary events. A traveling circus, zoological park or show which
keeps prohibited animals for a temporary exhibition may be issued a temporary
license allowing the prohibited animals within the city for a period not to
exceed 30 days, provided the person, traveling circus, zoological park or show
has obtained a state permit or is exempt from this requirement pursuant to M.S.
§ 97A.401, as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (10)   Game farm, subject to appropriate zoning and the issuance of a
conditional use permit by the city.
   (C)   Any individual, business or organization that is subject to the
exemptions shall, upon request and within five business days of obtaining
possession of this prohibited animal(s) pursuant to this division (C), provide
a copy of any applicable permit or certification, the number and type of
prohibited animal(s) subject to the exemption and any other information
required to assure compliance. Failure to provide timely information shall
immediately render the possession of the prohibited animal(s) as illegal and no
longer subject to the exemption as stated.
(Prior Code, § 10.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.57 ANIMALS IN TRANSIT.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport animals within the city unless
they are:
   (A)   Confined within a vehicle, cage or other means of conveyance;
   (B)   Farm animals being transported in the agricultural portion of the
city; or
   (C)   Restrained by means of bridles, halters, ropes or other means of
individual restraint.
(Prior Code, § 10.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.58 HOUSING.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep any animal, as herein defined, or any
other animal, in any structure infested by rodents, vermin, flies or insects,
or inadequate for protection against the elements.
(Prior Code, § 10.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.59 TRESPASS.
   It is unlawful for any person to herd, drive or ride any animal over and
upon any grass, turf, boulevard, city parks (except in designated trails and
loading areas), cemetery, garden or lot without specific permission therefore
from the owner.
(Prior Code, § 10.08) (Ord. 120, passed 4-7-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Assessable current services
   
91.02   Unlawful acts
Nuisances
   
91.15   Public nuisance
   
91.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
91.17   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
91.18   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
91.19   Building maintenance and appearance
   
91.20   Duties of city officers
   
91.21   Abatement
   
91.22   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
91.35   Short title
   
91.36   Jurisdiction
   
91.37   Definitions
   
91.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
91.39   Filing complaint
   
91.40   Notice of violations
   
91.41   Appeals
   
91.42   Abatement by city
   
91.43   Liability
   
91.44   Turfgrass management
   
91.45   Public nuisances
   
91.46   Assessment
   
91.47   Lawn maintenance
Open Burning
   
91.60   Definitions
   
91.61   Prohibited materials
   
91.62   Permit required for open burning
   
91.63   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
91.64   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
91.65   Permit process for open burning
   
91.66   Permit holder responsibility
   
91.67   Revocation of open burning permit
   
91.68   Denial of open burning permit
   
91.69   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
91.70   Rules and laws adopted by reference
   
91.71   External solid fuel-fired heating devices (outdoor wood burning stoves)
   
91.72   Recreational fires
 
   
91.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 91.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish
removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from plots adjacent to sidewalks or
from private property; removal or elimination of public health or safety
hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous building included in
M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may amended from time to time;
installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling, street
flushing, light street oiling or other dust treatment of streets; repair of
sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect- infected trees from the public streets or private property; and the
operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Clerk or other person designated by the
City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt
and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any matter has been
deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The City Clerk or other
designated person shall keep a record showing the cost of removal adjacent to
each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under
Chapter 51 of this code, the Finance Department shall keep a record of the
total cost of the installation or repair against the property.
   (E)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any damage. Any person
who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages any
public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall be
collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   The following acts set forth in the following divisions are declared to be
loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this subchapter, but
this enumeration is not exclusive.
   (A)   Horns, signaling devices and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle, except as a
danger warning.
   (B)   Exhaust. Discharging of exhaust, or permitting the discharge of the
exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat,
motor vehicle or snowmobile or recreational vehicle, except through a muffler
or other device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises therefrom
and complies with all state laws and regulations.
   (C)   Defective vehicles or loads. Using a vehicle so out of repair or so
loaded as to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other
noise.
   (D)   Loading, unloading and packing. Creating loud and excessive noise in
loading, unloading or unpacking any vehicle.
   (E)   Radios, tape and disc players, Bluetooth speakers. 
      (1)   To use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio
receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or other
device for the production or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any set, instrument, phonograph, machine or other device between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner as to be plainly audible at
the property line of the structure or building in which it is located, in the
hallway or apartment adjacent or at a distance of 50 feet if the source is
located outside a structure or building shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section.
      (2)   The only exceptions are allowable uses as allowed by special permit
or conditional uses as may be approved by the City Council.
   (F)   Noisy parties and gatherings. No person will, between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. congregate at, or participate in any party or gathering
of two or more people from which noise emanates or a sufficient volume so as to
disturb the peace, quiet or repose of another person. No person will knowingly
remain at a noisy party or gathering.
      (1)   Evidence. Noise of a volume so as to be clearly audible at a
distance of 50 feet from the structure or building in which the party or
gathering is occurring, or in the case of apartment buildings, in the adjacent
hallway or apartment, will be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
      (2)   Duty to disperse. When a police officer determines that a party or
gathering is in violation of this section, the officer may order all persons
present at the premises where the violation is occurring, other than the owner
or tenants of the premises, to disperse immediately. No person will knowingly
remain at such a party or gathering.
      (3)   Exceptions. The following are exempt from violation of this
section:
         (a)   Activities which are duly authorized, sponsored or licensed by
the city, so long as the activity is conducted pursuant to the conditions of
the license, permit or contract authorizing the activity;
         (b)   School sponsored special events or functions including but not
limited to sporting events or concerts;
         (c)   Church bells, chimes or carillons; and
         (d)   Persons who have gone to a party for the sole purpose of abating
the violation.
      (4)   Penalties. Every owner or tenant of the premises where a party or
gathering in violation of this section occurs, who is present at the party or
gathering, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person who refuses to disperse from
a party or gathering in violation of this section after being ordered by a
police officer to do so, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (G)   Loud speakers, amplifiers and the like. The using, operating or
permitting to be played any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public street for the
purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to
any building, structure or vehicle without first obtaining, and keeping
current, the necessary permits and approvals from the city.
   (H)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling
or singing at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel, motel or other
place of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
   (I)   Animals, birds and the like. The keeping of any animal or bird which
by causing frequent or long continued noise will disturb the comfort or repose
of any persons in the vicinity.
   (J)   Whistles or sirens. The blowing of a locomotive whistle or steam
whistle attached to any stationary boiler or any siren whatsoever except to
give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or
danger, or by public emergency vehicles.
   (K)   Sound trucks for advertising purposes. The use of sound trucks or any
other vehicle equipped with sound amplifying devices for the purposes of
advertising any program, project or meeting of any public agency, private
business, religious organization, civic group, political party or charitable
organization without first obtaining, and keeping current, the necessary
permits and approvals from the city.
   (L)   Schools, churches and the like. The creation of any excessive noise on
any street or private property which unreasonably interferes with any school,
institution of learning, church or the like while the same is in use.
   (M)   Light construction activities. Engaging in or permitting construction
activities involving the use of hand held tools including but not limited to
tools such as hammers, saws, wrecking bars or electrically powered tools
including but not limited to skill saws, drills or sanders except between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (N)   Heavy construction activities. Using tools powered by air compressors
including but not limited to jackhammers, impact wrenches or the use of any
kind of diesel or gas powered machine for construction activities except
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 10.29) (Ord. 147, passed 3-29-2010; Ord. 251, passed 4-25-2022)
**** NUISANCES ****
§ 91.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person must not act, or fail to act in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance. For purpose of this chapter, a person who does any of the following
is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of- way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or §§
91.16, 91.17 or 91.18, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance
and for which no sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet or repose of another person in
a manner so as to be plainly audible at the boundary of the real property,
building, structure or residence from which the noise originates, or at a
distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise. PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as
sound that can be detected by a person using their unaided hearing faculties;
   (E)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
   (F)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (G)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (H)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (I)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (J)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (K)      Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and
within three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (L)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (M)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (N)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (O)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (P)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (Q)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (R)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (S)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel;
   (T)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone; and
   (U)   (1)   Noises prohibited.
         (a)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace,
safety or welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or
affects their property’s value in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the
boundary of the real property, building, structure or residence from which the
noise originates, or at a distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise.
(this general prohibition is not limited by any specific restrictions provided
in this subchapter). PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as sound that can be detected
by a person using their unaided hearing faculties.
         (b)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation
of Minn. Rules. Chapter 7030, as they may be amended from time to time, are
incorporated into this subchapter by reference.
         (c)   The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
         (d)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of
the exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile or any recreational
device, except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations.
         (e)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading or
unpacking of any vehicle.
         (f)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of any person nearby.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
         (d)   Radios, music devices, paging systems and the like. The
operation of any device referred to in division (U)(1)(f) above between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at
the property line of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a
distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each statement and take its
evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any motor vehicles described in this section shall constitute a hazard
to the health and welfare of the residents of the community as these vehicles
can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and breeding place for vermin
and present physical danger to the safety and well-being of children and
citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids which, if released into
the environment, can and do cause significant health risks to the community.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store or abandon any motor vehicle
which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for repair of
parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other vehicles, kept
for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any kind, or which is not properly
licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. § 168B.011, subd. 3, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city. A privacy fence is permissible.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they (a) are unsightly, (b) decrease adjoining landowners and
occupants’ enjoyment of their property and neighborhood, and (c) adversely
affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents and other similar projections must be
structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of §§
91.21 and
91.22, the Police Department, or Sheriff or person designated by the City
Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall
have the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions
to prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in
emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police
officer or designated person shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
§ 91.21 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the
city, the officer or person designated may notify in writing the owner of
record or occupant of the premises of this fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and
seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above will permit a continuing nuisance to
unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City Council may
order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with summary
enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a public
nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that delay
in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health, safety
or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance, whether public
health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement
required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A) above and may
order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is
not immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (E)   Unlawful parties or gatherings. When law enforcement determines that a
gathering is creating a noise disturbance as is prohibited under §
91.18(D), the officer may order all persons present, other than the owner or
tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disburse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by
law enforcement. Every owner or tenant of the premises who has knowledge of the
disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance is
stopped.
   (F)   Judicial remedy. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
seeking a judicial remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy exists.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property
not owned by that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of
the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official shall
prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount
shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall,
on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the
total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for
current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from
time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges against the property
under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each
case.
Penalty, see §
91.99
**** WEEDS ****
§ 91.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance”.
§ 91.36 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or regulation or
county ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 91.37 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Those plants designated as such by M.S. § 18.77, subd. 8, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   PROPERTY. All lots or parcels within the city.
   REGULARLY CUT. Mowing or otherwise cutting vegetation so it does not exceed
eight inches in height.
   TURFGRASSES. An area of land, which is occupied by a minimum of 90% of
turfgrasses. TURFGRASSES are commercially available cultured turfgrass
varieties including blue grass, fescue, rye grass blends, commonly used in
regularly cut lawn areas.
   VEGETATION. Any non-woody plant.
   WOODLAND. An area of coniferous or deciduous trees interspersed with shrubs,
grasses, broad-leaf plants and other vegetation, excluding noxious weeds, which
are native or adaptive to the state.
(Prior Code, § 10.21) (Ord. 223, passed 5-11-2020; Ord. 258, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 91.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 12 inches in height.
   (B)   These provisions shall not apply to an area established with meadow
vegetation if:
      (1)   The prior vegetation is eliminated and the meadow vegetation is
planted through transplanting or seed by human or mechanical means; and
      (2)   A sign is posted on the property in a location likely to be seen by
the public, advising that a meadow or prairie is being established. This sign
must be no smaller than ten inches square, no larger than one square foot, and
no higher than three feet tall.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Clerk. If the city makes the complaint, an employee,
officer or Council member of the city shall file the complaint in all respects
as set out above.
§ 91.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding the
condition. The City Council, upon concluding that there is a probable belief
that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in
the form of a “destruction order” to the property owner or the person occupying
the property as that information is contained within the records of the City
Clerk or any other city agency. The notice shall be served in writing by
certified mail. The notice shall provide that within seven regular business
days after the receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be
removed by the property owner or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Clerk.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Clerk or others is deemed filed on
the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 91.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 91.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
“destruction order” within seven regular business days and has not filed a
notice within 48 hours to the City Clerk of an intent to appeal, the City
Council may employ the services of city employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means. No person
shall enter the property to abate the nuisance, except with the permission of
the owner, resident or other person in control of the property or has obtained
a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 91.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney’s
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk and to be deposited in a General Fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 91.44 TURFGRASS MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All property within the city shall have turfgrass maintained through
regularly cutting to prevent grass vegetation from exceeding eight inches.
   (B)   On vacant property where mowing of grass is physically difficult
because of topography or other physical constraints the height requirement as
in division (A) above shall only apply to a six-foot strip of land abutting
roadways or developed properties.
   (C)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Highway ditches;
      (2)   Railroad track ditches;
      (3)   Agricultural areas;
      (4)   Designated wetlands areas (based on DNR standards);
      (5)   Large tracts of undeveloped land;
      (6)   Residential subdivisions that are less than 50% developed except
where lots abut developed and improved property. In this instance, division (B)
above shall apply;
      (7)   Designated areas in city parks;
      (8)   Up to a 50-foot buffer surrounding drainage ponds, water quality
ponds, streams, lakes and floodplain areas; or
      (9)   Woodlands.
(Prior Code, § 10.21) (Ord. 224, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 91.45 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The following shall constitute a public nuisance and shall be immediately
abated by the property owner:
   (A)   Noxious weeds;
   (B)   Vegetation in violation of this subchapter;
   (C)   All insect infested or diseased trees; and
   (D)   Accumulation of materials which would harbor rodents.
(Prior Code, § 10.21) (Ord. 251, passed 4-25-2022)
§ 91.46 ASSESSMENT.
   The process of cost recovery and assessment is established under §
151.08.
(Prior Code, § 10.21) (Ord. 47, passed 7-17-2000; Ord. 251, passed 4-25-2022)
§ 91.47 LAWN MAINTENANCE.
   All disturbed or occupied areas, which are not covered by buildings,
storage, landscape beds or other physical improvements, shall be covered by
maintainable turfgrasses.
   (A)   It is the duty of all property owners to establish a lawn within eight
months of issuance of the certificate of occupancy or 12 months of issuance of
building permit, whichever is earlier. Turfgrasses which are drought resistant,
such as Fescue varieties, are preferred. The property owner shall be
responsible for supplemental watering of all areas established with turf grass
to ensure sufficient establishment and root development. All areas shall have
sufficient ground cover as to prevent erosion. At the discretion of the city, a
shorter time period may be imposed.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to issuance of a building permit for a single- and two-
family residential structure, the applicant shall provide an escrow of $2,000
per lot to the city to be held in escrow. The escrow shall be released as
follows.
         (a)   Front and side yard. Once sod is completed or seeding has taken
and substantial growth has occurred for the entire front and side yards $950 of
the escrow shall be returned to the applicant, applicant’s replacement or
property owner with proper documentation.
         (b)   Rear yard. Nine hundred fifty dollars of the escrow will be
returned to the applicant, applicant’s replacement or property owner with
proper documentation once either of the following occur:
            1.   Sod is completed or seeding has taken and substantial growth
has occurred on the entire rear yard; or
            2.   Seed has been placed on the entire rear yard and the applicant
or applicant’s replacement has provided proof of sale of the property to the
city.
      (2)   One hundred dollars of the original $2,000 escrow will be retained
by the city for administration of the program.
(Prior Code, § 10.21) (Ord. 148, passed 3-29-2010)
**** OPEN BURNING ****
§ 91.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a “recreational fire” as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as OPEN BURNING.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a “recreational fire site” using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than one RECREATIONAL FIRE is allowed on
any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three-foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only and which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a RECREATION
FIRE SITE as defined herein. RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be located
closer than 25 feet to any structure or combustible material.
   RUNNING FIRE. An attended fire allowed to spread through surface vegetative
matter under controlled conditions for the purpose of vegetative management,
forest management, game habitat management or agricultural improvement.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as STARTER
FUELS and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   VEGETATIVE MATERIALS. Dry leaves, dry grass clippings, twigs, branches, tree
limbs, untreated or unpainted wood that contains no glues or resins, and other
similar materials. Paper and cardboard are not considered VEGETATIVE MATERIALS.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, manufactured
fireplace logs, charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does
not include wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked,
or treated with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for
recreational fires when cut into three-foot lengths.
§ 91.61 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of oils,
petroleum fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials or other
materials which produce excessive or noxious smoke such as but not limited to:
tires, railroad ties, treated, painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar
paper, insulation, composition board, sheet rock, wiring, paint or paint
fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of: hazardous
waste or materials from salvage operations; solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process; materials from a service or commercial
establishment; or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.62 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire, as defined in §
91.60.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.63 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire or health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means;
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical;
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on-site, diseased or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives;
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical; and
      (6)   Running fires.
   (B)   Fire training permits can only issued by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
   (C)   Permits for the operation of permanent tree and brush burning sites
may only be issued by the State Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.64 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit fees
shall be in the amount established in the ordinance establishing fees and
charges, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.65 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   If the established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit
are not met, the application will be denied.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and
permit fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals, if he or
she reasonably believes necessary, may require a preliminary site inspection to
locate the proposed burn site, note special conditions and set dates and time
of permitted burn and review fire safety considerations.
§ 91.66 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire
safety plan.
   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to
smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available for
inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation of
all general conditions, special conditions and the burn event safety plan as
established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including but not limited to fire
suppression and administrative fees.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.67 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   An open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include but are not limited to a fire hazard existing or
developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the permit
being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance conditions
developing during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with no flame
present.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.68 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 91.69 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   (A)   The designated fire official is authorized to determine when
conditions make open burning potentially hazardous and declare a burning ban
within the city.
   (B)   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or
DNR has officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire
conditions or when the MPCA has declared an air quality alert.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.70 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 88, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, permits and
all other matters pertaining to open burning are adopted by reference and are
made a part of this section as if set out in full. It is the intention of the
City Council that all future amendments of M.S. Chapter 88, as it may be
amended from time to time, are adopted by reference as if they had been in
existence at the time this subchapter was adopted.
§ 91.71 EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICES (OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING
STOVES).
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE. A device designed for
external solid fuel combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior
of a building, and includes solid fuel-fired stoves, solid fuel-fired cooking
stoves, and combination fuel furnaces or boiler which burn solid fuel. Solid
fuel-fired heating devices do not include natural gas-fired fireplace logs or
wood-burning fireplaces or wood stoves in the interior of a dwelling.
      (2)   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, company or other
association.
      (3)   STACKS or CHIMNEYS. Any vertical structure incorporated into a
building and enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke or exhaust from a
solid fuel-fired heating device, especially, the part of the structure
extending above a roof.
   (B)   Requirements for operation.
      (1)   Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities, or any use of an external solid fuel-fired heating
device to burn solid fuels other than those solid fuels for which the external
solid fuel-fired heating device was designed, is declared a public nuisance.
      (2)   No person may install, use or operate an external solid fuel fired
heating device on a lot less than four acres in size.
      (3)   All stacks or chimneys must be so constructed to withstand high
winds or other related elements and in accordance to the specifications of the
manufacturer of the external solid fuel- fired heating device. The stack height
shall be a minimum of 25 feet above ground level, but shall also extend at
least as high as the height of the roofs of residents within 500 feet. All
stacks or chimneys must be of masonry or insulated metal with a minimum six-
inch flue.
      (4)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of 50 feet from all property lines.
      (5)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of ten feet from any principal or accessory structure.
   (C)   Fuels.
      (1)   Only fuels designed for burning in an external solid fuel-fired
heating device may be burned. No garbage may be burned in an external solid
fuel-fired heating device.
      (2)   The only fuel permitted to be burned is untreated fuel. Wood may
not be treated, processed, stained, finished or painted - specifically
prohibited woods include plywood, particle board and similar products. Other
fuels, such as corn, shall not contain any additives, treatments or chemicals.
No petroleum products or processed materials of any kind may be burned.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.72 RECREATIONAL FIRES.
   Recreational fires permitted recreational fires are permitted within the
city limits. They can take place at any time during the day and do not require
an open burning permit. Recreational fires must meet the following
requirements.
   (A)   Site requirements. An area of no more than a three-foot diameter
circle (measured from the inside of the fire ring or border) completely
surrounded by non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material either
of natural rock, cement, brick, tile, block or ferrous metal only and which
area is depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor burning fire places. Recreation fire sites shall not be
located closer than 20 feet of a structure or fence.
   (B)   Burn requirements. When a camp fire is used for recreational purposes,
it must be ignited with an approved starter fluid using dry, clean wood;
producing little detectable smoke, odor, or soot beyond the property line;
conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; extinguished completely
before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions, neighbors,
burning bans, and air quality so that nuisances, health or safety hazards will
not be created. Mobile cooking devices such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal
grills, wood smokers, and propane or natural gas devices are not defined as
camp or recreational fires, and are not covered under this section of the code.
(Prior Code, § 10.26)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter, including maintaining a nuisance
after being notified in writing by first class mail of a violation of any
provision of this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
92.01   Rules and regulations governing public parks
   
92.02   Targeted picketing in residential neighborhoods
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC PARKS.
   The Council may by resolution adopt, and from time to time amend, rules and
regulations governing public parks. It is unlawful to violate these rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 10.40) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 TARGETED PICKETING IN RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS.
   (A)   Purpose. The city has an interest in the protection of residential
privacy, the wellbeing and tranquility of the home, and protecting citizens
from unwanted speech when they are a captive audience within their homes. The
City Council finds that, without resorting to targeted residential picketing,
ample opportunities exist for those otherwise engaged in targeted residential
picketing to exercise constitutionally protected freedoms of speech and
expression.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the term TARGETED
RESIDENTIAL PICKETING means:
      (1)   Marching, standing or patrolling by one or more persons directed
solely at a particular residential building in a manner that adversely affects
the safety, security or privacy of an occupant of the building;
      (2)   Marching, standing or patrolling by one or more persons which
prevents an occupant of a residential building from gaining access to or
exiting from the property on which the residential building is located; or
      (3)   Standing, marching, patrolling or picketing by one or more persons
focused in front of or adjacent to a particular residential dwelling without
the consent of that dwelling’s occupants.
   (C)   Prohibited activity. No person shall engage in targeted residential
picketing within the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.48) (Ord. 231, passed 4-12-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of §
92.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10.48) (Ord. 231, passed 4-12-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGULATION AND LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSING AND REGULATION
      
112.   TOBACCO SALES
      
113.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
114.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
      
115.   MOBILE FOOD UNITS
      
116.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
117.   CANNABINOID PRODUCTS
      
118.   GAMBLING
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATION AND LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Applications
   
110.03   Action on application; transfer, termination and duplicate license
   
110.04   Fixing license fees
   
110.05   Carrying or posting
   
110.06   Property owners
   
110.07   Responsibility of licensee
   
110.08   Conditional licenses
   
110.09   Renewal of licenses
   
110.10   Insurance requirements
   
110.11   License denial and fixing rates; hearing
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license under this
chapter.
   APPLICATION. A form furnished by the city and uniformly required to be
completed by an applicant seeking the issuance of a license under this chapter.
   BOND. A corporate surety document in the form and with the provisions
acceptable and specifically approved by the City Attorney.
   BUSINESS. Any activity, occupation, sale of goods or services or transaction
that is either licensed or regulated, or both licensed and regulated, by the
terms and conditions of this chapter.
   LICENSE. A document issued by the city to an applicant permitting the
applicant to carry on and transact a business.
   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and prior
to issuance of a license under this chapter.
   LICENSEE. An applicant who holds a valid, current, unexpired and unrevoked
license from the city for carrying on a business.
   SALE, SELL and SOLD. All forms of barter and all manner or means of
furnishing merchandise to persons.
(Prior Code, § 6.01) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 110.02 APPLICATIONS.
   All applications shall be made as follows.
   (A)   All applications shall be made at the office of the City Administrator
or City Clerk upon forms that have been furnished by the city for these
purposes.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, all applications must
be subscribed, sworn to, and include information as the Council deems necessary
considering the nature of the business for which license application is made.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally make a false
statement or omission upon any application form. Any false statement in the
application, or willful omission of any information requested on the
application form, shall, upon discovery of the falsehood, work an automatic
refusal of license. If a license has already been issued, the license shall be
revoked, but only after the licensee is given an opportunity for a hearing on
the revocation in accordance with §§
30.08 and
30.09.
   (D)   The City Administrator or City Clerk shall, upon receipt of each
application completed in accordance with this chapter, forthwith investigate
the truth of the information provided and of the moral character and business
reputation of each applicant to the extent as the City Clerk deems necessary.
For this investigation, the City Administrator or City Clerk may enlist the aid
of the Chief of Police. The Council shall not consider an application before
the investigation has been completed.
   (E)   Applications for renewal licenses may be made in the abbreviated form
as is furnished by the city for these purposes.
(Prior Code, § 6.02) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000; Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 110.03 ACTION ON APPLICATION; TRANSFER, TERMINATION AND DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   (A)   Granting. The Council may grant any application for the period of the
remainder of the then current calendar year or for the entire ensuing license
year. Failure to pay any portion of a fee when due shall be cause for
revocation. No license fee shall be refundable upon revocation or voluntarily
ceasing to carry on the licensed activity. All applications, including proposed
license periods, must be consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   Issuing. If an application is approved, the City Administrator or City
Clerk shall forthwith issue a license pursuant thereto in the form prescribed
by the Council, payment of the appropriate license fee, and approval of the
bond or insurance as to form and surety or carrier, if required. All licenses
shall be on a calendar year basis unless otherwise specified herein as to
particular businesses. Except as to licenses which are specifically city wide,
licenses shall be valid only at one location and on the premises therein
described.
   (C)   Transfer. A license shall be transferable between persons upon consent
of the Council and payment of the investigation fee, if any, unless otherwise
specified herein. No license shall be transferable to a different location
without prior consent of the Council and upon payment of the fee for a
duplicate license. It is unlawful to make any transfer in violation of this
division (C).
   (D)   Termination. Licenses shall terminate only by expiration or
revocation.
   (E)   Refusal and revocation. The Council may, for any reasonable cause,
refuse to grant any application, or revoke any license. No license shall be
granted to a person of questionable moral character or business reputation.
Before revocation of any license, the Council shall give notice to the licensee
and grant the licensee opportunity to be heard. Notice shall be given by United
States mail not less than 15 nor more than 30 days prior to the hearing date,
and shall state the time, place and purpose thereof. Grounds for revocation may
be, but are not limited to, any of the following:
      (1)   The licensee suffered or permitted illegal acts upon licensed
premises;
      (2)   The licensee had knowledge of the illegal acts but failed to report
the same to police;
      (3)   The licensee failed or refused to cooperate fully with police in
investigating the alleged illegal acts; or
      (4)   The activities of the licensee created a serious danger to public
health, safety or welfare.
   (F)   Duplicate license. Duplicates of all original licenses may be issued
by the City Administrator or City Clerk, without action by the Council, upon
licensee’s affidavit that the original has been lost, and upon payment of a fee
in an amount adopted by ordinance of the Council for issuance of the duplicate.
All duplicate licenses shall be clearly marked “duplicate”.
(Prior Code, § 6.03) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000; Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 110.04 FIXING LICENSE FEES.
   Except as otherwise herein provided, all fees for licenses under this
chapter shall be fixed and determined by the Council, adopted by ordinance and
uniformly enforced. The license fees may, from time to time, be amended by the
Council by ordinance. A copy of the ordinance setting forth currently effective
license fees shall be kept on file in the office of the City Administrator or
City Clerk, and open to inspection during regular business hours. For the
purpose of fixing the fees, the Council may subdivide and categorize licenses
under a specific license requirement, provided, that any subdivision or
categorization shall be included in the ordinance authorized by this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.04) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000; Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 110.05 CARRYING OR POSTING.
   All peddlers, transient merchants or solicitors shall, at all times when so
engaged, carry their registration or license on their person. All other
licensees shall post their licenses in their place of business near the
licensed activity. All licensees shall display their licenses upon demand by
any officer or citizen.
(Prior Code, § 6.05) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 110.06 PROPERTY OWNERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any real property owned or
controlled by him or her to be used, without a license, for any business for
which a license is required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.06) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE.
   The conduct of agents or employees of a licensee, while engaged in the
performance of duties for the licensee as principal or employer under the
license, except as to criminal liability therefor, shall be deemed the conduct
of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 6.07) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 110.08 CONDITIONAL LICENSES.
   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Council may, upon
a finding of the necessity therefor, place the conditions and restrictions upon
a license as it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and necessary.
(Prior Code, § 6.08) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 110.09 RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   Applications for renewal of an existing license shall be made at least 30
days prior to the date of expiration of the license, and shall contain
information as is required by the city. This time requirement may be waived by
the Council for good and sufficient cause.
(Prior Code, § 6.09) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 110.10 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever insurance is required by a section of this chapter, after
approval of the application for license by the Council, but before the license
shall issue, the applicant shall file with the City Administrator or City Clerk
a policy or certificate of public liability insurance showing that:
      (1)   The liability limits are at least as high as required;
      (2)   Coverage is effective for at least the license term approved; and
      (3)   The insurance will not be canceled or terminated without 30 days’
written notice served upon the City Administrator or City Clerk.
   (B)   Cancellation or termination of the coverage shall be grounds for
license revocation.
(Prior Code, § 6.10) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000; Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 110.11 LICENSE DENIAL AND FIXING RATES; HEARING.
   (A)   Right to deny. The Council reserves to itself the right to deny any
application for a license to operate any business licensed or regulated under
this chapter where the business involves service to the public, rates charged
for service, use of public streets or other public property or the public
health, safety and convenience. The Council may also consider the location of
the business in making the determination. Provided, however, that before making
the determination, the Council shall hold a public hearing thereon after the
notice to interested parties and the public as it may deem necessary or proper.
   (B)   Rates. Where, under specific provisions of this chapter, the Council
has reserved to itself the right to fix or approve fees, rates or charges of a
licensed or regulated business, the rates shall be uniform for each category or
class of service, and no licensee or proprietor of a regulated business shall
claim or demand payment in excess thereof.
   (C)   Hearing. Any applicant or licensee under this chapter who challenges
the denial of a license or rates fixed or approved by the Council shall have a
right to a hearing before the Council upon written request therefor. Notice of
time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be given to the persons and by the
means as the Council may determine in calling the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 6.11) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSING AND REGULATION
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
111.05   Consumption in public places
   
111.06   Alcoholic beverages in certain buildings and grounds
   
111.07   Prizes of alcoholic beverages
   
111.08   Gambling on licensed premises
Liquor Licenses
   
111.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
111.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
111.22   Types of liquor licenses
   
111.23   License fees; pro rata
   
111.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
111.25   Application for license
   
111.26   Description of premises
   
111.27   Applications for renewal
   
111.28   Transfer of license
   
111.29   Investigation
   
111.30   Hearing and issuance
   
111.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
111.32   Conditions of license
   
111.33   Hours and days of sale
   
111.34   Duplicate license
   
111.35   Posting
   
111.36   Confections containing alcohol; liqueur-filled candy
   
111.37   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
111.38   Suspension and revocation
Minors
   
111.50   On premises
   
111.51   Consumption
   
111.52   Purchasing
   
111.53   Possession
   
111.54   Misrepresentation of age
   
111.55   Proof of age
   
111.56   Social hosting
 
   
111.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are adopted by reference and are
made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of the
City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time, are adopted by reference or referenced as if they
had been in existence at the time this chapter is adopted.
(Prior Code, § 5.01)
§ 111.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 5.02)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning, in
addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   LIQUOR. Without modification by the words “intoxicating” or “3.2% malt”
includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT, as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a Category 1, Category 2, or Category 3 as defined in
M.S. § 157.16, subd. 3(d), as it may be amended from time to time. An
establishment which serves prepackaged food that receives heat treatment and is
served in the package or frozen pizza that is heated and served, shall not be
considered to be a RESTAURANT for purposes of this chapter unless it meets the
definitions of a Category 1, Category 2, or Category 3.
(Prior Code, § 5.03)
§ 111.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the public
in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and combination of
alcohol, nudity and sex. The Council especially intends to prevent any
subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to lead to the
possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution, sexual assault
and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the prohibition of nudity
on the premises of any establishment licensed under this chapter, as set forth
in this section, reflects the prevailing community standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine or
3.2% malt liquor license or any other license issued under this chapter or the
imposition of a civil penalty under the provisions of §
111.99.
(Prior Code, § 5.04) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in a public
park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any public
place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, where the
consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted or where permission has
been specifically granted or licensed by Council. Provided, that this section
shall not apply to: the possession of an unsealed container in a motor vehicle
when the container is kept in the trunk of the vehicle if it is equipped with a
trunk, or kept in some other area of the vehicle not normally occupied by the
driver or passengers, if the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk. For
the purpose of this section, a utility or glove compartment shall be deemed to
be within the area occupied by the driver or passengers. Provided, further,
that this section shall not apply to the exceptions as listed in M.S. §
169A.35, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 5.05) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN CERTAIN BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.
   It is unlawful for any person to introduce upon, or have in his or her
possession upon or in any public school ground or school building, any
alcoholic beverage, except for experiments in laboratories, and those
organizations which have been issued temporary licenses to sell alcoholic
beverages, and persons who have lawfully purchased alcoholic beverages from the
organizations.
(Prior Code, § 5.06) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 PRIZES OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No person shall conduct a silent auction, raffle of other fund raising event
pursuant to M.S. § 340A.707, as it may be amended from time to time, with
prizes or awards of wine, beer or intoxicating liquors without notifying the
City Clerk of the event at least ten days prior to the occurrence of the event.
The event holder shall provide the city with the following information: the
person or organization holding the event, the day, time and location of the
event, type of fund raising event (silent auction, raffle or otherwise), type
and amount of wine, beer, intoxicating liquor to be awarded as prizes and the
charitable purposes to which the event proceeds will be donated.
(Prior Code, § 5.07) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 GAMBLING ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for any licensee to keep, possess or operate, or permit the
keeping, possession or operation on licensed premises of dice or any gambling
device, as defined by state statute, or permit raffles to be conducted, except
those which are authorized by statute or the city code.
(Prior Code, § 5.08) Penalty, see §
111.99
**** LIQUOR LICENSES ****
§ 111.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   (A)   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may
issue. However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter
is limited to the number of license which were issued as of the effective date
of this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger
number of licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum
held under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
   (B)   Council authorizes the following number of licenses to be issued
annually:
      (1)   Off-sale intoxicating: one license per 500 population of the city;
      (2)   On-sale club intoxicating: one license;
      (3)   On-sale wine licenses: one license per 500 population of the city;
      (4)   On-sale: five licenses;
      (5)   On-sale - exempt from state counts: one license per 500 population
of the city;
      (6)   Sunday on-sale: one license per 500 population of the city;
      (7)   On-sale 3.2% malt liquor: one license per 500 population of the
city;
      (8)   Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor: one license per 500 population of the
city;
      (9)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating: not more than 12 days’ worth of
temporary licenses per year, per organization or location;
      (10)   Temporary off-sale wine: two per year;
      (11)   Community festival permits: one license per 1,000 population of
the city per event;
      (12)   Sports, convention and cultural facility permits: not more than 12
days’ worth of temporary licenses per year, per organization or location;
      (13)   Consumption and display permits: one license per 500 population of
the city; and
      (14)   Temporary consumption and display permits: not more than ten one-
day permits per year per organization.
(Prior Code, § 5.09)
§ 111.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on July 19 of each year unless another
date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same date.
Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and display
permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the accompanying city
consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 5.10)
§ 111.22 TYPES OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
111.20:
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to golf
courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks;
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor off-sale license;
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious or non-profit organization;
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off-sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
111.23 shall not exceed $240 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, theaters
and exclusive liquor stores.
      (1)   Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
111.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 2
(b), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   The Council may, in its sound discretion, authorize a retail on-
sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at a
community festival held within the city under the provisions of M.S. §
340A.404, subd. 4(b), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   The Council may, in its sound discretion, authorize a retail on-
sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting or social affair (sports, convention
and cultural facility permit) conducted on the premises of a sports, convention
or cultural facility owned by the city, under the provisions of M.S. §
340A.404, subd. 4(a), as it may be amended from time to time; however, the
licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor to any person
attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being held on the
premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant, as defined in
§
111.03, club, bowling center or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
111.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, subd. 3(c), as it may be amended from time to time;
   (G)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious or other non-profit
corporation that has existed for at least three years; a political committee
registered under state law; or a state university. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days’ worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year;
   (H)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
111.03; to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.4011, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time, and to
theaters that meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 1(b), as it may be
amended from time to time. The fee for an on-sale wine license established by
the Council under the provisions of §
111.23, shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license;
   (I)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a non-profit organization in conjunction with
a social activity in the city sponsored by the organization;
   (J)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit is by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
111.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.414, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year;
   (K)   Culinary class limited on-sale licenses may be issued to a business
establishment not otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
that, as part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which
payment is made by each participant or advance reservation required. The
license authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class,
at no additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six ounces of wine
or 12 ounces of intoxicating malt liquor, during and as part of the class, for
consumption on the licensed premises only;
   (L)   Temporary off-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commission
of Public Safety, may be issued for the off-sale of wine at an auction. A
license issued under this division (L) authorizes the sale of only vintage wine
of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered for sale by any
wholesaler in the state. The license may authorize the off-sale of wine for not
more than three consecutive days provided not more than 600 cases of wine are
sold at any auction. The licenses are subject to the terms, including license
fee, imposed by §
111.23;
   (M)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating liquor or on-sale 3.2% malt liquor
licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued
to brewers who operate a restaurant in their place of manufacture and who meet
the criteria established at M.S. § 340A.24, as it may be amended from time to
time. Sales under this license at on-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per
year. If a brew pub licensed under this section possesses a license for off-
sale under division (N) below, the brew pub’s total combined retail sales at
on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year, provided that off-
sales may not total more than 500 barrels;
   (N)   Brewer pub off-sale malt liquor licenses, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued to a brewer that is a licensee
under division (M) above and otherwise meets the criteria established at M.S. §
340A.24, as it may be amended from time to time. Off-sale of malt liquor shall
be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the
city. Malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the premises before the
applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor stores. All malt liquor
sold under this license shall be packaged in the manner required by M.S. §
340A.285, as it may be amended from time to time. Sales under this license may
not exceed 500 barrels per year. If a brewer licensed under this section
possesses a license under division (M) above, the brewer’s total retail sales
at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year, provided that
off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels. Brewer off-sale malt liquor
licenses (small brewer off-sale malt) may also be issued, with approval of the
Commissioner, to a holder of a brewer’s license under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6
(c), (i) or (j), as may be amended from time to time, and meeting the criteria
established by M.S. § 340A.28, as may be amended from time to time. The amount
of malt liquor sold at off-sale may not exceed 500 barrels annually. Off-sale
of malt liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive
liquor stores in the jurisdiction in which the brewer is located, and the malt
liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the premises before the applicable
off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor stores. Packaging of malt liquor for
off-sale under this license must comply with M.S. § 340A.285, as it may be
amended from time to time;
   (O)   Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued,
with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to brewers who
manufacture fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year for the on-sale
of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the
municipality sponsored by the brewer;
   (P)   A brewer taproom on-sale license, may be issued to the holder of a
brewer’s license under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i) or (j), as it may be
amended from time to time. A brewer’s taproom license authorizes on-sale of
malt liquor produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or
adjacent to one brewery location owned by the brewer. A brewer may have only
one taproom license and may not have an ownership interest in a brewer licensed
under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(d), as it may be amended from time to time. A
brewer taproom license may not be issued to a brewer that brews more than
250,000 barrels of malt liquor annually or a winery that produces more than
250,000 gallons of wine annually. Within ten days of issuing a brewer taproom
license the City Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of the
licensee’s name, address, trade name and the effective date and expiration date
of the license. The City Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of
a license transfer, cancellation, suspension or revocation during the license
period;
   (Q)   A cocktail room license may be issued to the holder of a state
microdistillery license. A microdistillery cocktail room license authorizes on-
sale of distilled liquor produced by the distiller for consumption on the
premises of or adjacent to one distillery location owned by the distiller. The
holder of a microdistillery cocktail room license may also hold a license to
operate a restaurant at the distillery. No more than one cocktail room license
may be issued to any distiller and a microdistillery cocktail room license may
not be issued to any person having an ownership interest in a distillery
licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(a), as it may be amended from time to
time. No single entity may hold both a microdistillery cocktail room and
taproom license and a microdistillery cocktail room and taproom license may not
be co-located. Within ten days of the issuance of a microdistillery cocktail
room license, the city shall inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of the
licensee’s name and address and trade name, and the effective date and
expiration date of the license. The city shall also inform the Commissioner of
Public Safety of a microdistillery cocktail room license transfer,
cancellation, suspension or revocation during the license period;
   (R)   A microdistiller off-sale license may be issued to the holder of a
state microdistillery license. A microdistiller off-sale license authorizes
off-sale of one 375 milliliter bottle per customer per day of product
manufactured on-site provided the product is also available for distribution to
wholesalers; and/or
   (S)   A microdistiller temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license may be
issued to the holder of a state microdistillery license. A microdistillery
temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license authorizes on-sale of
intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the city sponsored
by the microdistillery.
(Prior Code, § 5.11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish, from time to time, in the ordinance
establishing fees and charges, the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this ordinance. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction in
their annual license fee by the amount specified in M.S. § 340A.408, as it may
be amended from time to time, if at the time of initial application or renewal
if they:
      (1)   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the city train all
employees within 60 days of hire and annually thereafter in laws pertaining to
the sale alcohol, the rules for identification checks and the responsibilities
of establishments serving intoxicating liquors;
      (2)   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be 30 years old or less;
      (3)   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check; and/or
      (4)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this division (F) may result
in suspension of the license until the conditions of the fee reduction are met
and may result in suspension and/or revocation of the license pursuant to §
111.19(A).
(Prior Code, § 5.12) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council, in its sound discretion, may either grant or deny the
application for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No
applicant has a right to a license under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.13)
§ 111.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial
responsibility, as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time
to time, with regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended
from time to time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner
of Public Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city, at all times
effective, proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
(Prior Code, § 5.14)
§ 111.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 5.15)
§ 111.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 45 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
(Prior Code, § 5.16)
§ 111.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 5.17)
§ 111.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $150 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. The results of the preliminary
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
(Prior Code, § 5.18)
§ 111.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 5.19)
§ 111.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be granted or renewed for any applicant who
intentionally makes a false statement or omission on any application form.
   (E)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
(Prior Code, § 5.20) (Ord. 205, passed 10-8-2018)
§ 111.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an on-sale license shall receive training
regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training shall be
provided by any regional trainer as listed with the Alcohol and Gambling
Enforcement Division of the State Department of Public Safety. Proof of
training shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Anything tending to obstruct clear and easy viewing in to the licensed
premises from the outside, including, but not limited to, curtains, blinds,
shades or other window coverings, shall be removed (or opened, as the case may
be) from all windows of the licensed premises during hours when sales are
prohibited by this chapter, allowing city officials to ensure compliance.
   (F)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
   (G)   Failure by on off-sale intoxicating liquor license who has received a
fee reduction pursuant to §
111.23(F) to abide with the provisions of §
111.23(F).
(Prior Code, § 5.21)
§ 111.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume, nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of, intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool or other place where customers are served, more than 20 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Prior Code, § 5.22) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   Duplicates of all original licenses under this chapter may be issued by the
City Administrator or City Clerk without action by the Council, upon licensee’s
affidavit that the original has been lost, and upon payment of the fee, adopted
by ordinance of the Council for issuance of the duplicate. All duplicate
licenses shall be clearly marked “duplicate”.
(Prior Code, § 5.23)
§ 111.35 POSTING.
   All licensees shall conspicuously post their licenses in their places of
business.
(Prior Code, § 5.24)
§ 111.36 CONFECTIONS CONTAINING ALCOHOL; LIQUEUR-FILLED CANDY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell a confection containing alcohol
to any person under the age of 21 years. For purposes of this section,
CONFECTION CONTAINING ALCOHOL means a confection containing or bearing not more
than 5% alcohol by volume where the alcohol is in a non-liquid form by reason
of being mixed with other substances in the manufacture of the confection, does
not include “liqueur-filled candy”, as herein defined, and may be sold only by
an exclusive liquor store licensed under this chapter or a business
establishment that derives more than 50% of its gross sales from the sale of
confections.
(Prior Code, § 5.26)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to sell liqueur-filled candy to any
person under the age of 21 years. For purposes of this section, LIQUEUR-FILLED
CANDY means any confectionery containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume in
liquid form that is intended for or capable of beverage use, and may be sold
only by an eligible licensee under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.27)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
(Prior Code, § 5.28) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.38 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as they may be amended from time to time. The Council
may act as the hearing body under that Act, or it may contract with the Court
of Administrative Hearings for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any
rules promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of §
111.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) above that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one-day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed;
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed;
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed; and
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (C) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
ordinance have again been met.   
   (D)   The provisions of §
111.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.30) Penalty, see §
111.99
**** MINORS ****
§ 111.50 ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person, host or dishwashing
services in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose
building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt
liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
(Prior Code, § 5.25) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.51 CONSUMPTION.
   It is unlawful for any:
   (A)   Licensee to permit any minor to consume alcoholic beverages on
licensed premises; or
   (B)   Minor to consume alcoholic beverages except in the household of the
minor’s parent or guardian, and then only with the consent of the parent or
guardian.
(Prior Code, § 5.25) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.52 PURCHASING.
   It is unlawful for any:
   (A)   Person to sell, barter, furnish or give alcoholic beverages to a minor
unless the person is the parent or guardian of the minor, and then only for
consumption in the household of the parent or guardian;
   (B)   Minor to purchase or attempt to purchase any alcoholic beverage; or
   (C)   Person to induce a minor to purchase or procure any alcoholic
beverage.
(Prior Code, § 5.25) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.53 POSSESSION.
   It is unlawful for a minor to possess any alcoholic beverage with the intent
to consume it at a place other than the household of the minor’s parent or
guardian. Possession of an alcoholic beverage by a minor at a place other than
the household of the parent or guardian is prima facie evidence of intent to
consume it at a place other than the household of his or her parent or
guardian.
(Prior Code, § 5.25) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.54 MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   It is unlawful for a minor to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
purchasing an alcoholic beverage.
(Prior Code, § 5.25) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.55 PROOF OF AGE.
   Proof of age for purchasing or consuming alcoholic beverages may be
established only by a valid driver’s license or identification card issued by
Minnesota, another state or a province of Canada, and including the photograph
and date of birth of the licensed person; or by a valid military identification
card issued by the United States Department of Defense; or, in the case of a
foreign national from a nation other than Canada, by a valid passport.
(Prior Code, § 5.25)
§ 111.56 SOCIAL HOSTING.
   (A)   Purpose and findings. The City Council intends to hold persons
criminally responsible who host events or gatherings where persons under 21
years of age possess or consume alcohol regardless of whether the person
hosting the event or gathering supplied the alcohol. The City Council finds
that:
      (1)   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where
alcohol is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of 21 are harmful to
those persons and constitute a potential threat to public health requiring
prevention or abatement;
      (2)   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage persons,
as well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol consumption,
such as alcohol overdose or alcohol-related traffic collisions;
      (3)   Alcohol is an addictive drug which, if used irresponsibly, could
have drastic effects on those who use it as well as those who are affected by
the actions of the irresponsible user;
      (4)   Often, events or gatherings involving underage possession and
consumption occur outside the presence of parents. However, there are times
when the parent(s) is/are present and condone the activity and in some
circumstances provided the alcohol;
      (5)   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person is a
crime, it is difficult to prove, and an ordinance is necessary to help further
combat underage consumption; and
      (6)   A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person criminally
responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage possession or
consumption occurs.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin or any other distilled spirits including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and which contains 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either alone
or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances.
      EVENT or GATHERING. Any group of three or more persons who have assembled
or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.   
      HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control or
permit a gathering or event.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
         (a)   As natural, adoptive parent, or step-parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian; or
         (c)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, or any
association of one or more individuals.
      RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, where occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented or used with or without permission or compensation.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual under 21 years of age.
   (C)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person(s) to host or allow an event or
gathering at any residence, premises or on any other private or public property
where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present when the person knows or
reasonably should know that an underage person will or does consume any alcohol
or alcoholic beverage or possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the
intent to consume it and the person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent
possession or consumption by the underage person(s).
      (2)   A person is criminally responsible under division (C)(1) above if
the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels or conspires with or
otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
      (3)   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be
present at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while in the parent’s presence and under the
parent’s guidance and supervision.
      (2)   This section does not apply to legally protected religious
observances.
      (3)   This section does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores or bottle club permit holders
who are regulated by M.S. § 340A.503, Subd. 1(a)(1).
      (4)   This section does not apply to situations where underage persons
are lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course
and scope of employment.
   (E)   Enforcement. This section can be enforced by any police officer or
Sheriff’s Deputy within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.29) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S.
Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated
under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided by law.
      (2)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of
this chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in
order for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. § 14.57 to 14.69, as they may be amended
from time to time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the
Council shall hold a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty
and hear any person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds
for suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the minimum
schedule of presumptive civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to
any suspension unless the license is revoked:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, $750;
         (b)   For the second violation within any three-year period, $1,000;
and
         (c)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period, $2,000.
      (3)   The term VIOLATION as used in this division (A) includes any and
all violations of the provisions in this section, or of M.S. Chapter 340A, as
it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter
as they may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be
determined on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding three-
year period. Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for
which revocation is imposed.
(Prior Code, § 5.31)
   (B)   A person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when that person performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, and upon conviction thereof, the violation shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.99)
(Ord. 198, passed 2-26-2018)
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO SALES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License
   
112.04   Fees
   
112.05   Basis for denial of license
   
112.06   Prohibited sales
   
112.07   Responsibility
   
112.08   Compliance checks and inspections
   
112.09   Other prohibited acts
   
112.10   Exceptions and defenses
   
112.11   Violations
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   Because the city recognizes that the sale of commercial tobacco, tobacco-
related devices, electronic delivery devices and nicotine or lobelia delivery
products to persons under the age of 21 violates both state and federal law;
and because commercial tobacco use has been shown to be the cause of many
serious health problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all
levels of government, this chapter is intended to regulate the sale of
commercial tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices and
nicotine or lobelia delivery products for the purpose of enforcing laws.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 228, passed 10-13-2020)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
16 C.F.R. § 1700.15(b), and was tested in accordance with the method described
in 16 C.F.R. § 1700.20.
   CIGAR. Any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in tobacco leaf or in any other
substance containing tobacco, with or without a tip or mouthpiece, which is not
a cigarette, as defined in M.S. § 297F.01, subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS involve the use of persons
under the age of 21 who purchase or attempt to purchase licensed products.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by the city or other units of
government for educational, research and training purposes or for investigating
or enforcing federal, state or local laws and regulations relating to licensed
products.
   DELIVERY SALE. The sale of any licensed product to any person for personal
consumption and not for resale when the sale is conducted by any means other
than an in-person, over-the-counter sales transaction in a licensed retail
establishment. DELIVERY SALE includes, but is not limited to, the sale of any
licensed product when the sale is conducted by telephone, other voice
transmission, mail, the internet or app-based service. DELIVERY SALE includes
delivery by licensees or third parties by any means, including curbside pick-
up.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens,
mods, tank systems or under any other product name or descriptor. ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY DEVICE includes any component part of a product, whether or not
marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE does not include any
nicotine cessation product that has been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to be marketed and for sale as “drugs”, “devices” or
“combination products”, as defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act,
being 21 U.S. Code Chapter 9, 21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq.
   FLAVORED PRODUCT. Any licensed product that contains a taste or smell, other
than the taste or smell of tobacco, that is distinguishable by an ordinary
consumer either prior to or during the consumption of the product, including,
but not limited to, any taste or smell relating to chocolate, cocoa, menthol,
mint, wintergreen, vanilla, honey, fruit or any candy, dessert, alcoholic
beverage, herb or spice. A public statement or claim, whether express or
implied, made or disseminated by the manufacturer of a licensed product, or by
any person authorized or permitted by the manufacturer to make or disseminate
public statements concerning the products, that a product has or produces a
taste or smell other than a taste or smell of tobacco will constitute
presumptive evidence that the product is a FLAVORED PRODUCT.
   IMITATION TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any edible non-tobacco product designed to
resemble a tobacco product, or any non-edible tobacco product designed to
resemble a tobacco product and intended to be used by children as a toy.
IMITATION TOBACCO PRODUCT includes, but is not limited to, candy or chocolate
cigarettes, bubble gum cigars, shredded bubble gum resembling chewing tobacco
and shredded beef jerky in containers resembling tobacco snuff tins. IMITATION
TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include electronic delivery devices or nicotine or
lobelia delivery products.
   INDOOR AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by
walls, doorways or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50% of
the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter of
the area. A WALL includes any retractable divider, garage door or other
physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent.
   LICENSED PRODUCTS. The term that collectively refers to any tobacco,
tobacco-related device, electronic delivery device or nicotine or lobelia
delivery product.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to single cigarettes, cigars, and any
other licensed products that have been removed from their original retail
packaging and offered for sale. LOOSIES does not include premium cigars that
are hand-constructed, have a wrapper made entirely from whole tobacco leaf, and
have a filler and binder made entirely of tobacco, except for adhesives or
other materials used to maintain size, texture or flavor.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business that is operated out of a
kiosk, truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter
and that is not a fixed address or other permanent type of structure licensed
for over-the-counter sales transactions.
   NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT. Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of a product,
that is not tobacco or an electronic delivery device, as defined in this
section. NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT does not include any nicotine
cessation product that has been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to be marketed and for sale as “drugs”, “devices” or
“combination products”, as defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public. RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT includes but is
not limited to grocery stores, tobacco products shops, convenience stores,
liquor stores, gasoline service stations, bars and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY. The open display of licensed products in a retail
establishment in any manner where any person has access to the licensed
products without the assistance or intervention of the licensee or the
licensee’s employee and where a physical exchange of the licensed product from
the licensee or the licensee’s employee to the customer is not required in
order to access the licensed products.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette or pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing,
made or derived from nicotine, tobacco, marijuana or other plant, whether
natural or synthetic, that is intended for inhalation. SMOKING also includes
carrying or using an activated electronic delivery device.
   TOBACCO. Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco that is
intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed or ingested by any other means, or any component,
part or accessory of a tobacco product including, but not limited to,
cigarettes; cigars; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp
cut, ready rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; cavendish;
plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse
scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms
of tobacco. TOBACCO does not include any nicotine cessation product that has
been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to be marketed and for
sale as “drugs”, “devices” or “combination products”, as defined in the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICE. Any rolling papers, wraps, pipes, or other device
intentionally designed or intended to be used with tobacco products. TOBACCO-
RELATED DEVICE includes components of tobacco-related devices or tobacco
products, which may be marketed or sold separately. TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES may
or may not contain tobacco.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device that dispenses licensed products upon the insertion of money, tokens or
other form of payment into or onto the device by the person seeking to purchase
the licensed product.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 228, passed 10-13-2020)
§ 112.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed
product without first having obtained a license to do so from the city.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell licensed products
must be made on a form provided by the city. The application must contain the
full name of the applicant, the applicant’s residential and business addresses
and telephone numbers, the name of the business for which the license is
sought, and any additional information the city deems necessary. Upon receipt
of a completed application, the City Clerk will forward the application to the
City Council for action at its next regularly scheduled meeting. If the City
Clerk determines that an application is incomplete, it will be returned to the
applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
   (C)   Investigation and fee. At the time the initial application is made, an
applicant for a license under this chapter shall accompany the application with
payment of a fee to be considered an application and investigation fee, not
refundable to the applicant, to cover the cost to the city of processing the
application and investigating the applicant. No investigations shall be
required of an applicant for a renewal license unless so ordered by the
Council.
   (D)   Action. The City Council may approve or deny the application for a
license, or it may delay action for a reasonable period of time to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant deemed necessary. If the City
Council approves the application, the City Clerk will issue the license to the
applicant. If the City Council denies the application, notice of the denial
will be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant’s right to
appeal the decision.
   (E)   Term. All licenses issued shall be valid through December 31 of the
issuing year. Licenses may be granted and issued for a fractional year thereof
in case of a new license application.
   (F)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued may be suspended or
revoked following the procedures set forth in §
112.11.
   (G)   Transfers. All licenses issued are valid only on the premises for
which the license was issued and only for the person to whom the license was
issued. The transfer of any license to another location or person is
prohibited.
   (H)   Display. All licenses must be posted and displayed at all times in
plain view of the general public in the retail establishment.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this chapter will be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal must be made at least 30 days, but no more than 60 days, before the
expiration of the current license.
   (J)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license is a
privilege and does not entitle the license holder to an automatic renewal of
the license.
   (K)   Smoking prohibited. Smoking, including smoking for the purpose of the
sampling of licensed products, is prohibited within the indoor area of any
retail establishment licensed under this chapter.
   (L)   Samples prohibited. No person shall distribute samples of any licensed
product free of charge or at a nominal cost. The distribution of licensed
products as a free donation is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 228, passed 10-13-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 FEES.
   No license will be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fees are paid in full. The fees will be established by the city’s fee schedule
and may be amended from time to time. Fees shall not be prorated for partial
year licenses.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 228, passed 10-13-2020)
§ 112.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license include, but
are not limited to, the following.
      (1)   The applicant is under 21 years of age.
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to licensed products.
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products suspended
or revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date of application.
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any of the information required on
the licensing application, or provides false or misleading information.
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation from holding a license.
      (6)   The business for which the license is requested is a moveable place
of business. Only fixed-location retail establishments are eligible to be
licensed.
   (B)   However, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of
any particular ground for denial does not mean that the city must deny the
license.
   (C)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, the city
will revoke the license upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for
the license under this chapter. The city will provide the license holder with
notice of the revocation, along with information on the right to appeal.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 228, passed 10-13-2020)
§ 112.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   In general. No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed
product:
      (1)   By means of any type of vending machine;
      (2)   By means of loosies;
      (3)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other products subject to this chapter;
      (4)   By means of self-service display. All licensed products must be
stored behind the sales counter, in a locked case, in a storage unit or in
another area not freely accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling
licensed products at the time this chapter is adopted must comply with this
section within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter;
      (5)   By means of delivery sales. All sales of licensed products must be
conducted in person, in a licensed retail establishment, in over-the-counter
sales transactions; or
      (6)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision or
other regulation.
   (B)   Legal age. No person shall sell any licensed product to any person
under the age of 21.
      (1)   Age verification. Licensees must verify by means of government-
issued photographic identification containing the bearer’s date of birth that
the purchaser is at least 21 years of age.
      (2)   Signage. Notice of the legal sales age, age verification
requirement and possible penalties for underage sales must be posted
prominently and in plain view at all times at each location where licensed
products are offered for sale. The required signage must be posted in a manner
that is clearly visible to anyone who is or is considering making a purchase.
   (C)   Cigars. No person shall sell or offer to sell a single cigar with a
sales price of less than $2.01 after any discounts are applied and before sales
taxes are imposed.
   (D)   Imitation tobacco products. No person shall sell, offer to sell or
otherwise distribute any imitation tobacco products within the city.
    (E)   Liquid packaging. No person shall sell or offer to sell any liquid,
whether or not the liquid contains nicotine, which is intended for human
consumption and use in an electronic delivery device, in packaging that is not
child-resistant. Upon request by the city, a licensee must provide a copy of
the certificate of compliance or full laboratory testing report for the
packaging used.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 228, passed 10-13-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees are responsible for the actions of their employees regarding
the sale, offer to sell and furnishing of licensed products on the licensed
premises. The sale, offer to sell or furnishing of any licensed product by an
employee shall be considered an act of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 228, passed 10-13-2020)
§ 112.08 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises must be open to inspection by law enforcement or other
authorized city officials during regular business hours. From time to time, but
at least once per year, the city will conduct compliance checks. In accordance
with state law, the city will conduct a compliance check that involves the
participation of a person at least 17 years of age, but under the age of 21 to
enter the licensed premises to attempt to purchase licensed products. Prior
written consent from a parent or guardian is required for any person under the
age of 18 to participate in a compliance check. Persons used for the purpose of
compliance checks will be supervised by law enforcement or other designated
personnel.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 228, passed 10-13-2020)
§ 112.09 OTHER PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts are an administrative
violation of this chapter. This section shall not apply to anyone over the ages
of 17 and under the age of 21 lawfully involved in compliance checks.
   (A)   Prohibited furnishing or procurement. It is a violation of this
chapter for any person 21 years of age or older to purchase or otherwise obtain
any licensed product on behalf of a person under the age of 21. It is also a
violation for any person 21 years of age and older to coerce or attempt to
coerce a person under the age of 21 to purchase or attempt to purchase any
licensed product.
   (B)   Use of false identification. It is a violation of this chapter for any
person to use any form of false identification, whether the identification is
that of another person or has been modified or tampered with to represent an
age older than the actual age of the person using that identification.
   (C)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco or tobacco related device to anyone
under 21 years of age.
   (D)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for anyone
under 21 years of age to have in his or her possession any tobacco or tobacco
related device.
   (E)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for anyone under
21 years of age to smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any tobacco or tobacco
related device.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 228, passed 10-13-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   (A)   Religious, spiritual or cultural ceremonies or practices. Nothing in
this chapter prevents the provision of tobacco or tobacco related devices to
any person as part of an indigenous practice or a lawfully recognized
religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony or practice.
   (B)   Reasonable reliance. It is an affirmative defense to a violation of
this chapter for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of age as
described by state law.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 228, passed 10-13-2020)
§ 112.11 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. A person violating this chapter may be issued, either
personally or by mail, a citation from the city that sets forth the alleged
violation and that informs the alleged violator of their right to be heard on
the accusation
   (B)    Hearings.
      (1)   Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating this
chapter may request, in writing, a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests must
be made within ten business days of the issuance of the citation and delivered
to the City Clerk or other designated city officer. Failure to properly request
a hearing within ten business days of the issuance of the citation will
terminate the person’s right to a hearing.
      (2)   The City Clerk or other designated city officer will set the time
and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and place will be
mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least ten business days prior to
the hearing.
   (C)   Hearing officer. The City Council shall serve as the hearing officer.
   (D)   Decision. A decision will be issued by the hearing officer within ten
business days of the hearing. If the hearing officer determines that a
violation of this chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing
officer’s reasons for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed, will
be recorded in writing, a copy of which will be provided to the city and the
accused violator by in-person delivery or mail as soon as practicable. If the
hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not
imposing any penalty, those findings will be recorded and a copy will be
provided to the city and the acquitted accused violator by in-person delivery
or mail as soon as practicable. The decision of the hearing officer is final,
subject to an appeal as described in division (F) below
   (E)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer must be
filed in the County District Court within ten business days of the date of the
decision.
   (F)   Misdemeanor violation. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city
from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of this
chapter. If the county elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, the action
should not prohibit an administrative penalty also being imposed.
   (G)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 228, passed 10-13-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Licensees.
      (1)   Any licensee cited for violating this chapter, or whose employee
has violated this chapter, will be charged an administrative fine of $300 for a
first violation; $600 for a second offense at the same licensed premises within
a 36-month period and a seven-day license suspension; and $1,000 for a third or
subsequent offense at the same location within a 36-month period and a 30-day
suspension of license. Upon a fourth violation within a 36-month period, the
license will be revoked. Any violation during a suspension will result in
license revocation.
      (2)   Any administrative fine assessed against a licensee pursuant to
this chapter must be paid in full within 30 days from receipt of written
notification of the City Council imposition of the administrative fine. Failure
to pay the fine within that time period shall result in a ten-day license
suspension. Licensees whose licenses have been revoked may not be issued a new
license within six months from the effective date of the revocation.
   (B)   Employees of licensees and other individuals. Individuals, other than
persons under the age of 21 regulated by division (C) below, who are found to
be in violation of this chapter may be charged an administrative fine of $50.
   (C)   Persons under the age of 21. Persons under the age of 21 who use a
false identification to purchase or attempt to purchase licensed products shall
be charged a fine and/or be required to complete tobacco related education
classes, diversion programs, community services or other penalty. The
administrative penalty or other penalty shall be established by ordinance upon
the city’s consultation with interested parties of the courts, educators,
parents and children and may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Statutory penalties. If the administrative penalty for violations
against licensed retailers under division (A) above authorized to be imposed by
M.S. § 461.12, as it may be amended from time to time, differ from that
established in this section, then the higher penalty will prevail.
   (E)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section prohibits the city
from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for an alleged second violation of
this chapter by a person 21 years of age or older within five years of a
previous conviction under the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 228, passed 10-13-2020)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
113.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
113.04   License ineligibility
   
113.05   License suspension and revocation
   
113.06   License transferability
   
113.07   Registration
   
113.08   Prohibited activities
   
113.09   Exclusion by placard
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCATE. A person who goes door-to-door for the
primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social or other
ideological beliefs. For the purpose of this chapter, the term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCATE shall fall under the term SOLICITOR and include door-to-door
canvassing and pamphleteering intended for non-commercial purposes.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying for exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. For purpose of this chapter, the term PEDDLER shall
have the same common meaning as the term HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or similar association.    
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be considered REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise other personal property, or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. For purposes of this
chapter, the term SOLICITOR shall have the same meaning as the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter or empty store front for
the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell
and delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property
and who does not remain in any one location for more than 14 consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 6.22) (Ord. 191, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 113.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the terms PEDDLER, SOLICITOR and
TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to:
      (1)   Non-commercial door-to-door advocates. Nothing within this chapter
shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict non-commercial door-to-door
advocates. Person engaging in non-commercial door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as a solicitor under §
113.07;
      (2)   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods,
wares, products, merchandise or other personal property to a retail seller of
the items being sold by the wholesaler;
      (3)   Any person who makes initial contacts with other people for the
purpose of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery
route for the delivery of perishable food and dairy products, such as baked
goods or milk;
      (4)   Any person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products
to the customers on his or her established delivery route;
      (5)   Any person making deliveries of newspapers, newsletters or other
similar publications on an established customer delivery route, when attempting
to establish a regular delivery route, or when publications are delivered to
the community at large;
      (6)   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage
sales, rummage sales or estate sales;
      (7)   Any person participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or
flea market;
      (8)   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer;
and/or
      (9)   Any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale.
   (B)   Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this
chapter, excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory
provision or requirement provided by another city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6.22) (Ord. 191, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 113.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as may be required by
M.S. Chapter 329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues
a license for the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business within this jurisdiction as a peddler
or a transient merchant without first obtaining a city license. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are required to register with the city pursuant to §
113.07.
   (C)   Application. An application for a city license to conduct business as
a peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting a business operation within
the city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the
City Council and available from the office of the City Clerk. All applications
shall be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The applicant’s full legal name;
      (2)   Any and all other names under which the applicant has or does
conduct business, or to which the applicant will officially answer to;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, any distinguishing marks or features, and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or an
agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business, if any
exists;
      (8)   Any and all business-related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business.
If the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or she
will be conducting business within the city, with a maximum of 14 consecutive
days;
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up his or her business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
with the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for
violating any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than minor
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any required county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any location to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   Any and all additional information as may be deemed necessary by
the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information, vehicle
identification number (VIN) and physical description for any vehicle to be used
in conjunction with the licensed business operation.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the city licensing fee schedule as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the application and payment of the license
fee, the City Clerk will, within two regular business days, determine if the
application is complete. An application will be considered complete if all
required information is provided. If the City Clerk determines that the
application is incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the applicant of the
required, necessary information that is missing. If the application is
complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including background
checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the application.
Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete application the City
Clerk must issue the license unless grounds exist for denying the license
application under §
113.04, in which case the Clerk must deny the request for a city peddler or
transient merchant license. If the City Clerk denies the license application,
the applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for
denial and the applicant’s right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20
days of receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City
Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal with 20 days of the date of the
request for a hearing. The decision of the City Council following the public
hearing can be appealed by petitioning the State Court of Appeals for a writ of
certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issuance. All other licenses granted to
peddlers and transient merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during
the time period indicated on the license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required for any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street or any other type
of place-to-place movement for the primary purpose of exercising that person’s
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, freedom
of the press, freedom of religion and the like. This exemption will not apply
if the person’s exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to what
would properly be considered a commercial activity.
(Prior Code, § 6.22) (Ord. 191, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 113.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a peddler or transient merchant
license:
   (A)   The failure of an applicant to obtain and demonstrate proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process;
   (C)   The failure of an applicant to sign the license application;
   (D)   The failure of an applicant to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (E)   A conviction within the past five years of the date of application for
any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation, or of any local
ordinance, which adversely reflects upon the person’s ability to conduct the
business for which the license is being sought in a professional, honest and
legal manner. These violations shall include, but are not limited to, burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (F)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to an
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant; and
   (G)   When an applicant has a bad business reputation. Evidence of a bad
business reputation shall include, but is not limited to, the existence of more
than three complaints against an applicant with the Better Business Bureau, the
Office of the State Attorney General or other State Attorney General’s office,
or other similar business or consumer rights office or agency, with the
preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed with the city against an
applicant within the preceding five years.
(Prior Code, § 6.22) (Ord. 191, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 113.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by an applicant on the application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense to which the granting of the
license could have been denied under §
113.04;
      (4)   Engaging in any prohibited activity as provided under §
113.08; and
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide a license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, of if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C)
above, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If no
request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten days following
the service of the notice, the city may proceed with the suspension or
revocation. For the purpose of a mailed notice, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a public hearing
is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within
20 days from the date of the request for the public hearing. Within three
regular business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the
licensee of its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) above.
   (F)   Appeal. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
(Prior Code, § 6.22) (Ord. 191, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
(Prior Code, § 6.22) (Ord. 191, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 113.07 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this chapter under §
113.03 shall be required to register with the city prior to engaging in those
activities. Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license
application, but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion of the
registration form, the City Clerk shall issue to the registrant a certificate
of registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of registration
shall be non-transferrable.
   (B)   Individuals that will be engaging in non-commercial door-to-door
advocacy shall not be required to register.
(Prior Code, § 6.22) (Ord. 191, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door
advocate or other person engaged in other similar activities shall conduct
business in any of the following manner:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or the items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any
other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian,
on any street, sidewalk, alleyway or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any specific individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 9:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license, or registration, and
identification when requested;
   (F)   Using the license or registration of another person;
   (G)   Alleging false or misleading statements about the products or services
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person;
   (H)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave; and/or
   (I)   Otherwise operating their business in any manner that a reasonable
person would find obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
(Prior Code, § 6.22) (Ord. 191, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   (A)   Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate,
or other person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the
property of another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler,
solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate or similar
activity when the property is marked with a sign or placard:
      (1)   At least four inches long;
      (2)   At least four inches wide;
      (3)   With print of at least 48 point in size; and
      (4)    Stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors or Transient Merchants”,
“Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants Prohibited” or other comparable
statement.
   (B)   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove, deface
or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.22) (Ord. 191, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual found in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
a guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6.22) (Ord. 191, passed 8-21-2017)
CHAPTER 114: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose and intent
   
114.02   Provisions not applicable to or restrictive of content of materials
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   Application
   
114.05   Location
   
114.06   Operation
   
114.07   Licenses
   
114.08   Term
   
114.09   License fees
   
114.10   Inspection
   
114.11   Expiration and renewal
   
114.12   Suspension
   
114.13   Revocation
   
114.14   Transfer of license
   
114.15   Nonconforming uses
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult entertainment
establishments to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to:
   (A)   Prevent additional criminal activity within the city;
   (B)   Prevent deterioration of neighborhoods and its consequent adverse
effect on real estate values of properties within the neighborhood; and
   (C)   Locate adult entertainment establishments away from residential areas,
schools, churches, parks and playgrounds.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.02 PROVISIONS NOT APPLICABLE TO OR RESTRICTIVE OF CONTENT OF MATERIALS.
   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including adult-oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent
nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to adult-
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, nor to deny access by
distributors and exhibitors of adult-oriented entertainment to their intended
market.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS. Any establishment in which an adult use comprises more
than 10% of the floor area of the establishment in which it is located or which
comprises more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire business operation.
   ADULT USE. Any of the activities and businesses described below.
      ADULT USES. Include adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters,
adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/
bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult companionship establishments, adult rap/
conversation parlors, adult health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty
businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/
motels, adult body painting studios and other premises, enterprises,
establishments, businesses or places open to some or all members of the public,
at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas which
are capable of being seen by members of the public. Activities classified as
obscene, as defined by M.S. § 617.241, as it may be amended from time to time,
are not included.
      ADULT USE - BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or nontransparent, to the body of a patron when the body is wholly or partially
nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the
barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audio tape, videotape or motion picture film if the building or
portion of a building is not open to the public generally but only to one or
more classes of the public, excluding any minor by reason of age, and if a
substantial or significant portion of the items are distinguished and
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - CABARET. A building or portion of a building for providing
dancing or other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a building
excludes minors by virtue of age and if the dancing or other live entertainment
is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT USE - COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment
which excludes minors by reason of age, and which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished
and characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
       ADULT USE - CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of engaging
in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion, if the service is
distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes minors
by reason of age, if the club is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel from which minors are
specifically excluded from patronage and where material is presented which is
distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
       ADULT USE - MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
which restricts minors, by reason of age, and which provides the services of
massage, if the service is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
if the material is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customers and
who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by the customers.
      ADULT USE - MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT USE - MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if the
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
reason of age and if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE - NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal
activity the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
       ADULT USE - SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, and
which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided by the SAUNA is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
       ADULT USE - STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the building or portion of a
building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service provided by the
STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   CHURCH SITE. A church or building which is used primarily for religious
worship and related religious activities.
   PARK SITE. A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including but not limited to a park,
playground, nature trail, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas or other similar
public land within the city which is under the control, operation or management
of the city park and recreational authorities.
   SCHOOL SITE. A public or private education facility including but not
limited to nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools,
middle schools, junior high schools, high schools, or special education
schools; SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not include the
facilities used primarily for another purpose.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region or pubic hair;
         (b)   Buttock; and
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if opaquely
covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct:
analingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus
or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks
or female breast(s);
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of the persons;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
   TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.04 APPLICATION.
   Except as in this chapter specifically provided, no structure shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or altered, and no structure or
land shall be used for any purpose nor in any manner which is not in conformity
with this chapter. No adult entertainment establishment shall engage in any
activity or conduct or permit any other person to engage in any activity or
conduct in or about the establishment which is prohibited by any ordinance of
the city, the laws of the state or the United States of America. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed as authorizing or permitting conduct which is
prohibited or regulated by other statutes or ordinances, including, but not
limited to, statutes or ordinances prohibiting the exhibition, sale or
distribution of obscene material generally, or the exhibition, sale or
distribution of specified materials to minors.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.05 LOCATION.
   Permitted location is as allowed by the city’s land use regulations, as it
may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.06 OPERATION.
   (A)   Off-site viewing. An establishment operating as an adult entertainment
establishment shall prevent off-site viewing of its merchandise which, if
viewed by a minor, would be in violation of M.S. Chapter 617, as it may be
amended from time to time, or other applicable federal or state statutes or
local ordinances.
   (B)   Entrances. All entrances to the business, with the exception of
emergency fire exits which are not useable by patrons to enter the business,
shall be usable from a public right-of-way.
   (C)   Layout. The layout of the display areas shall be designed so that the
management of the establishment and any law enforcement personnel inside the
store can observe all patrons while they have access to any merchandise offered
for sale or viewing, including, but not limited to, books, magazines,
photographs, video tapes or any other material.
   (D)   Illumination. Illumination of the premises’ exterior shall be adequate
to observe the location and activities of all persons on the exterior of the
premises.
   (E)   Signs. Signs for adult entertainment establishment shall comply with
the city’s sign regulations, and, in addition, signs for adult entertainment
establishment shall not contain representational depiction of an adult nature
or graphic descriptions of the adult theme of the operation. All signs shall be
wall signs. No merchandise or pictures of the products or entertainment on the
premises shall be displayed in window areas or in any area where they can be
viewed from a public street or sidewalk.
   (F)   Minors restricted. No minor under the age of 18 shall knowingly be
allowed access on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 LICENSES.
   (A)   Licenses required. All establishments, including any business
operating at the time this chapter becomes effective, operating or intending to
operate an adult entertainment establishments, shall apply for and obtain a
license from the city. A person is in violation of the city code if he or she
operates an adult entertainment establishment without a valid license issued by
the city.
   (B)   Applications. An application for a license must be made on a form
provided by the city.
      (1)   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches.
      (2)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
section and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the appropriate state, county and local law and codes by the health official,
Fire Marshal and Building Official.
      (3)   Application for a license shall contain the address and legal
description of the property to be used; the names, addresses, phone numbers and
dates of birth of the owner, lessee, if any, and the operator or manager at
time of application; the name, address and phone number of two persons who
shall be residents of the state and who may be called upon to attest to the
applicant’s, manager’s or operator’s character; whether the applicant, manager
or operator has ever been convicted of a crime or offense other than a traffic
offense and, if so, complete accurate information as to the disposition
thereof; the names and addresses of all creditors of the applicant, owner,
lessee or manager who have extended credit for the purposes of constructing,
equipping, maintaining, operating or furnishing or acquiring the premises,
personal effects, equipment or anything incident to the establishment,
maintenance and operation of the business.
      (4)   If the application is made on behalf of a corporation, joint
business venture, partnership or any legally constituted business association,
it shall submit along with its application, accurate and complete business
records showing the names, addresses and date of birth of all individuals
having an interest in the business, including partners, officers, owners, board
of directors and creditors furnishing credit for the establishment,
acquisition, maintenance and furnishing of the business.
      (5)   All applicants shall furnish to the city, along with their
applications, complete and accurate documentation establishing the interest of
the applicant and any other person having an interest in the premises upon
which the building is proposed to be located or the furnishings thereof,
personal property thereof, or the operation or maintenance thereof.
Documentation shall be in the form of a lease, deed, contract for deed,
mortgage deed, mortgage credit arrangement, loan agreements, security
agreements and any other documents establishing the interest of the applicant
or any other person in the operation, acquisition or maintenance of the
enterprise.
   (C)   Recommendation for approval. The Chief of Police and City Clerk may
recommend approval of the issuance of a license by the city to an applicant
within 60 days after receipt of an application unless they find one or more of
the following to be true:
      (1)   Applicant(s) or manager is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   Applicant(s) or an applicant’s spouse is overdue or delinquent, or
subject to a penalty imposed by law for the late payment in their payment to
the city, county or state of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against
them or imposed upon them in relation to an adult only entertainment business;
      (3)   Applicant(s) has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (4)   Applicant(s) or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted of a
violation of a provision of this section, other than the offense of operating
an adult only entertainment business without a license within three years
immediately preceding the application. The fact that a conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect;
      (5)   Applicant(s) is residing with a person who has been denied a
license by the city or any other Minnesota municipal corporation to operate an
adult only entertainment business within the preceding 12 months, or residing
with a person whose license to operate an adult only entertainment business has
been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the adult only entertainment business
has not been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department and the
Building Official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
the inspections shall be completed within 30 days from the date the application
was submitted, provided that the application contains all of the information
required by this chapter. If the application is deficient, the inspections
shall be completed within 30 days from the date the deficiency has been
corrected;
      (7)   An applicant has been convicted of a crime involving any of the
following offenses:
         (a)   Any sex crimes, as defined by M.S. §§ 609.341 through 609.352
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, or as defined by any
ordinance or statute in conformity therewith;
         (b)   Any obscenity crime, as defined by M.S. §§ 617.23 through
617.299 inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, or as defined by
any ordinance or statute in conformity therewith; for which:
            1.   Less than three years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
         (c)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant or applicant’s spouse.
      (8)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
   (D)   Requalification. An applicant who has been convicted of an offense
listed in division (C)(7) above may qualify for an adult entertainment
establishment license only when the time period required by division (C)(7)
above has elapsed.
   (E)   Posting. The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of
the person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the
address of the adult entertainment establishments. The license shall be posted
in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment so that it may be read at any time.
   (F)   Council action. The City Council shall act to approve or disapprove
the license application within 60 days from the date the application was
submitted, provided that the application contains all information required by
this chapter. If the application is deficient, the Council shall act on the
application within 60 days from the date that the deficiency has been
corrected.
   (G)   Appeals. Within 30 days after the decision by the Council, the
applicant may appeal to the District Court by serving a notice upon the Mayor
or Clerk of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.08 TERM.
   All licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.09 LICENSE FEES.
   License fees shall be set by city ordinance. Fees shall not be prorated.
   (A)   Every application for a new adult entertainment establishment license
shall be accompanied by the non-refundable application/investigation fee.
   (B)   Every application for an annual renewal license shall be accompanied
by the non-refundable application/investigation fee.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.10 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Access. An applicant or licensee shall permit health officials,
representatives of the Police Department, Fire Department and Building
Inspection Division to inspect the premises of an adult entertainment
establishment for the purpose of insuring compliance with the law at any time
it is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   Refusal to permit inspections. A person who operates an adult
entertainment establishment or his or her agent or employee commits an offense
if he or she refuses to permit a lawful inspection of the premises by health
officials, representatives of the Police Department, Fire Department and
Building Inspection Division at any time it is occupied or open for business.
Refusal to permit inspections may result in the suspension of the license as
provided in §
114.12.
   (C)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an
adult motel which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a
permanent or temporary habitation.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.11 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Expiration. Each license shall expire at the end of the calendar year
and may be renewed only by making application as provided in §
114.07(A). Application for renewal must be made at least 60 days before the
expiration date, and when made less that 60 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   Denial of renewal. When the city denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
If, subsequent to denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the
renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.12 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Causes of suspension. The city may suspend a license for a period not
to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee
has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any provision of this
chapter;
      (2)   Engaged in the use of alcoholic beverages while on the adult
entertainment establishment premises other than at an adult hotel or motel;
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult entertainment
establishment premises as authorized by this chapter;
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult
entertainment establishment premises; and/or
      (5)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage an adult entertainment
establishment in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action
by law enforcement officers.
   (B)   Notice. A suspension by the city shall be proceeded by written notice
to the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at least ten days
notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the
charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally, or by leaving the same at the licensed business premises with the
person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.13 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Suspended licenses. The city may revoke a license if a cause of
suspension in §
114.11 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   Causes of revocation. The city shall revoke a license if it determines
that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the city during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the adult
entertainment establishment during a period of time when the licensee’s license
was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
114.07(C)(7), for which the time period required in §
114.07(C)(7) has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
114.07(C)(7), for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were employees of the adult entertainment establishment at the time the
offenses were committed;
      (7)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation or masturbation to occur in or on the
licensed premises; and/or
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment, in excess of 30 days, to the
city, county or state for any taxes or fees past due.
   (C)   Exceptions. Division (B)(7) above does not apply to adult motels as a
ground for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee knowingly
allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or
sexual contact to occur in a public place or within public view.
   (D)   Granting a license after revocation. When the city revokes a license,
the revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued
an adult entertainment establishment license for one year from the date
revocation became effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the city finds that
the basis for the revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be
granted a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the
revocation became effective. If the license was revoked under division (B)
above, an applicant may not be granted another license until the appropriate
number of years required under §
114.07(C)(7), has elapsed.
   (E)   Notice. A revocation by the city shall be proceeded by written notice
to the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at least ten days
notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the
charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally, or by leaving the same at the licensed premises with the person in
charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.14 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer this license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate an adult entertainment establishment under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 114.15 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any adult use existing in the city that is not in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter as of the effective date of this chapter shall be
deemed a nonconforming use and shall become unlawful three years after the date
of enactment.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any section of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Each day
that a violation occurs shall be considered a separate offense. The city may
enforce any provision of this chapter by mandamus, injunction or any other
appropriate civil remedy in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 6.25) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
CHAPTER 115: MOBILE FOOD UNITS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose and findings
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Permit requirement
   
115.04   Conditions of licensing
   
115.05   Investigation, approval or disapproval
   
115.06   Approval or denial of permit
   
115.07   Suspension or revocation
   
115.08   Appeal
   
115.09   Emergency
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   The purpose of this chapter to regulate mobile food units in order to
protect the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the city by
establishing standards to ensure that mobile food units, as defined herein, are
appropriately located, permitted and inspected, do not impede vehicular access,
traffic flow or circulation, or create public safety hazards.
(Prior Code, § 6.26) (Ord. 225, passed 7-27-2020)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSED CATERER. An individual or business which is under contract to
provide food service for an event such as a reception, party, luncheon,
conference, ceremony or trade show.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A food and beverage service establishment that is a
vehicle mounted unit, such as:
      FOOD CART. A food and beverage service establishment that is a non-
motorized vehicle that is self-propelled by the operator.
      ICE CREAM TRUCK. A motor vehicle utilized as the point of retail sales of
pre-wrapped or pre-packaged ice cream, frozen yogurt, frozen custard, flavored
frozen water or similar frozen dessert products.
      MOTORIZED or TRAILER.
         (a)   A self-contained food service operation, located in a motorized,
wheeled or towed vehicle, that is readily movable without disassembling and
that is used to store, prepare, display or serve food intended for individual
portion service; or
         (b)   A mobile food unit, as defined in M.S. § 157.15, subd. 9, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   VEND or VENDING. The process of the transfer of a food product from the unit
operator to a customer. VENDING begins when the unit initially stops in a
location at which customers can access the unit and continues until the unit
leaves that location.
(Prior Code, § 6.26) (Ord. 225, passed 7-27-2020)
§ 115.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Type of permit. A temporary permit allows a mobile food unit to
operate in the city for up to seven days total. An annual permit allows mobile
food unit operations in the city for eight days or more during any year. The
permittee will only be issued one temporary permit per calendar year, however,
nothing shall prohibit a temporary permittee from applying for an annual permit
within the same year.
   (B)   Permit application. It is unlawful for any person to operate a mobile
food unit in the city without first obtaining a permit from the city. An
application for a permit shall be filed, along with the required fee, with the
City Clerk. The applicant must be the owner of the mobile food unit. The
application shall be made on a form supplied by the city and shall contain
information requested by the city, including the following:
      (1)   Name of the owner of the mobile food unit and permanent and
temporary home and business address;
      (2)   The applicant’s full legal name, date of birth and driver’s license
number;
      (3)   A description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold and the license plate number and description for any vehicle to be used in
conjunction with the activity;
      (4)   The permanent and any temporary home and business address, phone
numbers and email address of the applicant, with a designation of a preferred
mailing address for notices related to the permit;
      (5)   The name, address and contact information for the commissary with
which the mobile food unit is affiliated, if applicable;
      (6)   Written consent of each private property owner from which mobile
food unit sales will be conducted;
      (7)   If the mobile food unit will be located on city property or public
right-of-way, a signed statement that the permittee shall hold harmless the
city and its officers and employees, and shall indemnify the city and its
officers and employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to
persons which may be occasioned by any activity carried on under the terms of
the permit;
      (8)   If applying only for a temporary permit, the applicant must provide
the dates and locations for its up to seven dates of mobile food unit
operations; and
      (9)   Applicant’s state sales tax ID number and federal employer
identification number or Social Security number.
   (C)   Insurance. A certificate of insurance by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state, evidencing the following forms of
insurance shall be provided with the application:
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including products and
completed operations coverage, with a limit of not less than $1,000,000 each
occurrence. If the insurance contains an annual aggregate limit, the annual
aggregate limit shall be not less than $2,000,000;
      (2)   Automobility liability insurance with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 combined single limit. The insurance shall cover liability arising
out of any auto, including owned, hired and non-owned vehicles;
      (3)   Workers compensation insurance (statutory limits) or evidence of
exemption from state law;
      (4)   The city shall be endorsed as an additional insured on the
certification of insurance and the umbrella/excess insurance if the applicant
intends to operate its mobile food unit on public property, including public
right-of-way; and
      (5)   Certificate of insurance must contain a provision requiring at
least 30 days’ advanced written notice to the city, or ten days’ written notice
for non-payment of premium notification be sent to the city should the policy
be cancelled before its stated expiration date.
   (D)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the application and payment of the fee, the
City Clerk will, within two regular business days, determine if the application
is complete. An application will be considered complete if all required
information is provided. If the City Clerk determines that the application is
incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the applicant of the required, necessary
information that is missing. If the application is complete, the City Clerk
must order any investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify
the information provided with the application. Within ten regular business days
of receiving a complete application, the City Clerk must issue the permit
unless grounds exist for denying the permit application under §
115.06, in which case, the Clerk must deny the request for a mobile food unit.
If the City Clerk denies the permit application, the applicant must be notified
in writing of the decision, the reason for denial and the applicant’s right to
appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of
rejection, a public hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall
hear the appeal with 20 days of the date of the request for a hearing. The
decision of the City Council following the public hearing can be appealed by
petitioning the State Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
(Prior Code, § 6.26) (Ord. 225, passed 7-27-2020) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 CONDITIONS OF LICENSING.
   A mobile food unit may only operate as set forth in the following.
   (A)   Locations. A mobile food unit may only operate in the locations set
forth in this division (A).
      (1)   A mobile food unit may operate in a private commercial or
industrial parking lot, non-profit owned property and on private residential
property. A mobile food unit may only operate with the written consent of the
private property owner for those requiring a permit. When operations occur on
private residential property, mobile food unit sales may only be for catering
purposes (such as a private graduation party or wedding) and not open for sales
to the general public.
      (2)   A mobile food unit may only operate along a public or private
street when the street is closed to all non-emergency vehicles.
      (3)   A mobile food unit may only operate in a city park or on city
property with the prior written approval by the city; additional permits may be
required for these operations.
      (4)   Ice cream trucks may operate in all zoning districts and within the
public right-of-way of residential districts.
   (B)   Mobile food unit operations and performance standards. A mobile food
unit permittee is subject to the following operation and performance standards.
      (1)   The applicable permit fee shall be paid.
      (2)   A mobile food unit operating on city property, including public
right-of-way, must submit a signed statement that the permittee shall hold
harmless the city and its officers and employees, and shall indemnify the city
and its officers and employees for any claims for damage to property or injury
to persons which may be occasioned by any activity carried on under the terms
of the permit.
      (3)   A mobile food unit with an annual permit may not operate on the
same property more than 21 days during any calendar year.
      (4)   A mobile food unit may not operate within 500 feet of an existing
restaurant unless permitted through a city event.
      (5)   A mobile food unit may not operate within 300 feet of a city
sponsored festival or event unless permitted through a city event.
      (6)   A mobile food unit shall operate in strict compliance with the
laws, rules and regulations of the United States, the state, the county and the
city.
      (7)   At no time shall any sales be made from a mobile food unit while it
is in motion.
      (8)   A mobile food unit is not required to obtain a sign permit from the
city. However, no additional signage is permitted beyond that which is on the
mobile food unit unless it meets the following requirements.
         (a)   One single sandwich board style sign is permitted per mobile
food unit.
         (b)   The maximum sign size is eight square feet.
         (c)   The sign must be placed on the ground and within ten feet of the
mobile food unit.
         (d)   The sign must not be placed within the public right-of-way
except with the express permission of the city.
         (e)   The sign cannot project from the food truck or be mounted to the
roof of the mobile food unit.
         (f)   Signage may not contain strobing, flashing or intermittent
lighting.
      (9)   No external seating may be utilized while operating on public
property.
      (10)   No other equipment may be utilized that is not fully contained
within the vehicle/trailer/unit while operating on public property.
      (11)   Mobile food units may not connect to public utilities. Any
generator in use must be self-contained and fully screened from view and
operate so as not to be deemed a nuisance.
      (12)   Any conditions of the State Health Department shall be
incorporated into the permit under this section.
      (13)   Applicant shall provide waste disposal for litter and garbage
generated by the operation of the mobile food unit and shall clean all litter
and garbage before moving from location.
      (14)   The mobile food unit shall obey the orders of any traffic control
officer, peace officer, zoning official or inspector, and shall be open to
inspection during all open hours.
      (15)   Mobile food units shall comply with all applicable fire codes and
may be inspected by a city fire official prior to operation.
      (16)   Proof of Department of Health or Department of Agriculture
licensing must be provided and posted on unit.
      (17)   Wastewater may not be drained into city water drains.
      (18)   Hours of operation shall be from 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
      (19)   No overnight storage of a mobile food unit shall be permitted at
the point of sale. Off-site storage will be permitted as allowed in the city’s
land use provisions.
   (C)   Permit. A mobile food unit permit is non-transferable. The approved
permit shall be displayed on or within the unit, visible from the outside of
the unit, whenever the unit is vending.
   (D)   Department of Health License Requirement. Applicants must provide
evidence of current licensing of the unit by the State Department of Health or
the State Department of Agriculture, or other approved Department of Health
licensing authority.
   (E)   Fees. All applications for a permit under this section shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the city’s fee schedule as adopted from
time to time by Council.
      (1)   Proration of fees is allowed only on annual permits; temporary
permits shall not be prorated. A quarterly proration of $25 may be given
following the end of March, June and September.
      (2)   There shall be no refunding of paid fees.
      (3)   A separate permit accompanied by fees shall be required for each
mobile food unit regardless of ownership.
   (F)   Term of permit.
      (1)   Annual permit. Permits issued as an annual permit shall expire
January 1 of each year.
      (2)   Temporary permit.
         (a)   Temporary permits are issued on a one- to seven-day term. Dates
of vending are not required to be concurrent but must be within a one-year
period.
         (b)   All permits issued for a specific term must adhere to the dates
allowed to vend identified on the applicant’s permit.
   (G)   Exemption from permit.
      (1)   Mobile food units are exempt from applying for a permit in
conjunction with a city sponsored festival or event.
         (a)   Mobile food unit must register for the festival or event and pay
any applicable fees.
         (b)   A copy of the State Department of Health or Department of
Agriculture permit to operate shall be provided.
      (2)   Appropriately licensed caterers are exempted from this section for
catered events.
      (3)   Mobile food units which are vending at a school, church or other
non-profit owned land for a non-profit event. Mobile food units must be fully
contained on non-profit owned land.
      (4)   Mobile food units which are hired to vend on private residential
property for private events, located in any residential or agriculture zoned
property. Mobile food units must be fully contained on private property.
      (5)   Mobile food units which are hired to vend a private one-day event,
for customers of a business only, up to twice a year.
   (H)   Practices prohibited. It is unlawful for any person engaged in the
business of a mobile food unit operation to do any of the following:
      (1)   Call attention to that permittee’s business by shouting, crying
out, blowing a horn, ringing a bell or use any sound device, including any loud
speaking radio or sound amplifying system upon any public property, or upon any
private premises in the city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or
produced therefrom to be capable of being plainly heard upon public property,
for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares or merchandise
which the permittee proposed to sell, unless prior approval with conditions is
received from the city. Ice cream trucks traveling through a residential
district may have outdoor music or noise-making devices to announce their
presence. A commercial noise permit application and fee must be submitted;
      (2)   Fail to display proof of permit and produce valid identification
when requested;
      (3)   Leave a mobile food unit unattended or at an authorized location
outside allowed hours of operation;
      (4)   Operate a mobile food unit in or on public sidewalks or trails;
      (5)   Remain on the property of another when asked to leave;
      (6)   Obstruct the ingress or egress from commercial buildings during the
building hours of operation;
      (7)   Claim endorsements by the city; and/or
      (8)   Conduct business in any manner as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of a specific individual or the general public.
(Prior Code, § 6.26) (Ord. 225, passed 7-27-2020; Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 115.05 INVESTIGATION, APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   Mobile food unit applicants wishing to operate on any publicly owned land,
right-of-way or street located in a residential district, or in any city park,
shall be required to undergo a background check that may include, but is not
limited to, a driver’s license check and a criminal history check, for the
protection of the public good.
(Prior Code, § 6.26) (Ord. 225, passed 7-27-2020)
§ 115.06 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city shall approve or deny the application in the manner prescribed in
this chapter within a reasonable period of time. The following shall be grounds
for denying a permit:
   (A)   Failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process;
   (B)   Failure of the applicant to complete the application and/or pay any
required fee;
   (C)   When an applicant has a bad business reputation. Evidence of a bad
business reputation may include prior revocations of any permit or license,
prior convictions for violations of any federal, state or local law or which
adversely reflects upon the person’s ability to conduct the business for which
the permit is being sought, or prior complaints with the city, Better Business
Bureau, State Attorney General or other similar business or consumer rights
office;
   (D)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application, for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s
ability to conduct the business for which the permit is being sought in an
honest and legal manner or that will not adversely affect the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the city. The violations shall include, but not
be limited to: burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business
practices and any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another
person;
   (E)   The revocation within the past five years of any license or permit
issued to the applicant for the purpose of conducing a mobile food unit or
similar business transaction;
   (F)   The denial, within the last year, of any license or permit application
for the purpose of conducting a mobile food unit or similar business
transaction;
   (G)   Failure to follow all federal, state and local regulations, including
failure to be registered, licensed or permitted if the registration, license or
permit is required by any federal, state or local regulation; and/or
   (H)   Appeal. Any permit applicant aggrieved by the denial of a permit may
appeal by filing with the City Administrator within ten days of the date of
mailing of the notice of denial, a written statement requesting a hearing
before the City Council and setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. A
hearing shall be held within 30 days of receipt of the request. Notice of the
hearing shall be given by the City Administrator in writing, setting forth the
time and place of hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
permit applicant at his or her last known address at least five days prior to
the date set for hearing, or shall be delivered by a police officer in the same
manner as a summons at least three days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 6.26) (Ord. 225, passed 7-27-2020)
§ 115.07 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked
after notice and a hearing conducted by the City Administrator, for any of the
following causes: violation of this chapter; violation of federal, state or
local law, rule or regulation relating to mobile food units; or any action
identified in §
115.04(D).
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a permit shall be given by the
City Administrator in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of
compliant and the time and place of hearing. The notice shall be mailed,
postage prepaid, to the permit holder at his or her last known address at least
five days prior to the date set for the hearing, or shall be delivered by a
police officer in the same manner as a summons at least three days prior to the
date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 6.26) (Ord. 225, passed 7-27-2020)
§ 115.08 APPEAL.
   The decision of the City Administrator following a hearing as provided for
in this chapter can be appealed by petitioning the City Council. The appeal
must be delivered to the City Administrator in writing within ten days of the
date of mailing of the City Administrator’s decision.
(Prior Code, § 6.26) (Ord. 225, passed 7-27-2020)
§ 115.09 EMERGENCY.
   If, in the discretion of the City Administrator, imminent harm to the health
or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of any person
permitted under this section, the City Administrator may immediately suspend
the person’s permit and, in this event, shall provide notice to the person of
the right to a post-suspension hearing pursuant to the procedures in §
115.07(B).
(Prior Code, § 6.26) (Ord. 225, passed 7-27-2020)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the vending
operation of a mobile food unit within the city without a permit pursuant to
this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with the
penalties established by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 6.26) (Ord. 225, passed 7-27-2020)
CHAPTER 116: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Finding of City Council
   
116.03   Definitions
   
116.04   License required
   
116.05   Exceptions
   
116.06   License application
   
116.07   License fees
   
116.08   License application verification and consideration
   
116.09   Persons ineligible for license
   
116.10   Locations ineligible for therapeutic massage enterprise license
   
116.11   License restrictions
   
116.12   Restrictions regarding sanitation, health and safety
   
116.13   Term, renewal of license
   
116.14   Sanctions for license violations
   
116.15   Suspension of license for violations
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit massage businesses and services
to the public except those licensed as therapeutic massage establishment and
massage therapists pursuant to this chapter. The licensing regulations
prescribed herein are necessary in order to prevent criminal activity and to
protect the health and welfare of the community. The purpose of this chapter is
not intended to impose restrictions or limitations on the freedom of protected
speech or expression.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 116.02 FINDING OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the need to license
therapeutic massage enterprises and therapists and to prohibit all other types
of massage businesses and services to the public.
   (A)   Persons who have bona fide and standardized training in therapeutic
massage, health and hygiene can provide a legitimate and necessary service to
the general public.
   (B)   Health and sanitation regulations governing therapeutic massage
enterprises and therapists can minimize the risk of the spread of communicable
diseases and can promote overall health and sanitation.
   (C)   Limiting the number of therapeutic massage enterprise licenses and
license qualifications for the restrictions on therapeutic massage enterprises
and therapists can minimize the risk that the businesses and persons will
facilitate prostitution and other criminal activity in the community.
   (D)   Massage services provided by persons with no specialized and
standardized training in massage can endanger citizens by facilitating the
spread of communicable diseases, by exposing citizens to unhealthy and
unsanitary conditions, and by increasing the risk of personal injury.
   (E)   Massage businesses which employ persons with no specialized and
standardized training can tax city law enforcement services because these
businesses are more likely to be operated as fronts for prostitution and other
criminal activity than operations established by persons with standardized
training.
   (F)   The training of professional massage therapists at accredited
institutions is an important means of ensuring the fullest measure of
protecting the public health, safety and welfare.
   (G)   Premises where prior massage therapists have had their licenses
revoked require a period of time where massage services should not be provided
in order to avoid continuation of the same clientele and association of the
location with unlawful services.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 116.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCREDITED INSTITUTION. An educational institution holding accredited status
approved by the United States Department of Education or the State Office of
Higher Education.
   ACCREDITED PROGRAM. A professional massage program or educational
institution accredited by the Commission on Massage Therapy Accreditation
(COMTA).
   CLEAN. The absence of dirt, grease, rubbish, garbage and other offensive,
unsightly or extraneous matter.
   GOOD REPAIR. Free of corrosion, breaks, cracks, chips, pitting, excessive
wear and tear, leaks, obstructions and similar defects so as to constitute a
good and sound condition.
   ISSUING AUTHORITY. The City Clerk or his or her designee.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on, or friction against, or the rubbing,
stroking, kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating, stimulating or rolling of the
external parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any
mechanical or electrical apparatus, or other appliances or devices, with or
without supplementary aids such as rubbing alcohol, liniment, antiseptic, oil,
powder, cream, lotion, ointment or other similar preparations.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. An individual who practices or administers massage to the
public who can demonstrate to the issuing authority that he or she:
      (1)   Has current insurance coverage of $1,000,000 for professional
liability in the practice of massage;
      (2)   Is affiliated with, employed by or owns a therapeutic massage
enterprise licensed by the city; and
      (3)   Has completed 500 hours of certified therapeutic massage training
with content that includes the subjects of anatomy, physiology, hygiene,
ethics, massage theory and research, and massage practice from an accredited
program, accredited institution or a program or institution licensed or
verified by a state licensing board or agency that has been approved by the
issuing authority. These training hours must be authenticated by a single
provider through a certified copy of the transcript of academic record from the
school issuing the training, degree or diploma. In the event the accredited
program or accredited institution is no longer in existence, in the sole
discretion of the city, a certified copy of the transcript of academic record
may be accepted directly from the applicant with an affidavit stating this
transcript of academic record is authentic. The transcript of academic record
must be from a program or institution that was once accredited and approved by
the issuing authority. The certified copy of the transcript of academic record
must contain the applicant’s name, last address of the accredited institution
at the time of closing, and reflect the 500 hours of certified therapeutic
massage training with content that includes the subjects of anatomy,
physiology, hygiene, ethics, massage theory and research, and massage practice
as required.
   OPERATE. To own, manage or conduct, or to have control, charge or custody
over.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, joint
venture or combination of individuals.
   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ENTERPRISE. An entity which operates a business which
hires only licensed therapeutic massage therapists to provide therapeutic
massage to the public. The owner/operator of a THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ENTERPRISE
need not be licensed as a therapeutic massage therapist if he or she does not
at any time practice or administer massage to the public. A THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE
ENTERPRISE may employ other individuals such as cosmetologists and
estheticians, and these individuals are not required to have a massage
therapist license as long as they are not providing therapeutic massage to the
public.
   WITHIN THE CITY. Includes physical presence as well as telephone referrals
such as phone-a-massage operations in which the business premises, although not
physically located WITHIN THE CITY, serves as a point of assignment of
employees who respond to requests for services from WITHIN THE CITY.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 116.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license. It shall be unlawful for any
person or entity to own, operate, engage in or carry on, within the city, any
type of massage services to the public for consideration without first having
obtained a therapeutic massage enterprise license from the city pursuant to
this chapter.
   (B)   Massage therapist license. It shall be unlawful for any individual to
practice, administer or provide massage services to the public for
consideration within the city without first having obtained a massage therapist
license from the city pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   A therapeutic massage enterprise or therapist license is not required for
the following persons and places:
   (A)   Persons duly licensed by this state to practice medicine, surgery,
osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy or podiatry, or professional
practices licensed or registered by this state and regulated by a governmental
body with a board where concerns and complaints could be directed, provided the
massage is administered in the regular course of the medical business and not
provided as part of a separate and distinct massage business;
   (B)   Persons duly licensed by this state as beauty culturists or barbers,
provided these persons do not hold themselves out as giving massage treatments
and provided the massage by beauty culturists is limited to the head, hand,
neck and feet, and the massage by barbers is limited to the head and neck;
   (C)   Persons working solely under the direction and control of a person
duly licensed by this state to practice medicine, surgery, osteopathy,
chiropractic, physical therapy or podiatry or professional practices licensed
or registered by this state and regulated by a governmental body with a board
where concerns and complaints could be directed;
   (D)   Places duly licensed or operating as a hospital, nursing home,
hospice, sanitarium or group home established for the hospitalization or care
of human beings;
   (E)   Students of an accredited institution who are performing massage
services in the course of a clinical component of an accredited program of
study, provided that the students are performing the massage services at the
location of the accredited institution or provided the students are limited to
performing massage therapy only on owners or staff of licensed massage
enterprises and not on members of the public; and
   (F)   Individuals licensed in another municipality performing massage
services as part of a wellness event/expo where the event will not be more than
three days in length. Written notice must be provided to the city and must
include dates, times and location(s) of the event.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 116.06 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license application. An application for
a therapeutic massage enterprise license shall be made on a form supplied by
the City Clerk and shall request the following information.
      (1)   All applicants. For all applicants:
         (a)   Whether the applicant is an individual, corporation, partnership
or other form of organization;
         (b)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed together
with a plan of the area showing dimensions, location of buildings, street
access and parking facilities;
         (c)   The floor number, street number, suite number(s) and rooms where
the massage services are to be conducted;
         (d)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid,
the years and amounts that are unpaid;
         (e)   Whenever the application is for premises either planned or under
construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application shall be
accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed
premises to be licensed. If the plans for design are on file with the city’s
Building and Inspection Department, no plans need be submitted to the issuing
authority;
         (f)   The name, street address and suite number(s) of the business if
it is to be conducted under a designation, name or style other than the name of
the applicant, and a certified copy of the certificate, as required by M.S. §
333.02, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (g)   The amount of the investment that the applicant has in the
business, buildings, premises, fixtures, furniture and equipment, and proof of
the source of the investment. The identity of all other persons investing in
the business, building, premises, fixture, furniture and equipment, the amount
of their investment and proof of the source of the investment;
         (h)   All applications for licenses, whether enterprise or individual
applications, shall be signed and sworn to. If the application is that of a
natural person, it shall be signed and sworn to by the person; if by a
corporation, by an officer thereof; if by an incorporated association, by the
manager or officer thereof; if by a limited liability company (LLC), by a
member thereof. Any falsification of information on the license application
shall result in the denial of the license and the applicant may be subject to
prosecution for forgery, as defined by state statute;
         (i)   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, as an individual
or as part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business or
firm, a massage license that was denied, revoked or suspended within the last
ten years of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing
authority;
         (j)   The application must identify a responsible party relative to
each license who shall be responsible for the conduct of the business. If the
responsible party for a licensee will change, an application for the change
shall be provided to the City Clerk at least 30 days prior to the change and
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license. In the event
that a 30-day prior notice is not feasible, a written explanation will be
submitted to the City Clerk within one week of the known change documenting the
reason(s) for the deviation; this is subject to approval by the Police Chief or
his or her designee. Failure to file a timely application or explanation for a
change in responsible party shall be grounds for revocation, suspension or non-
renewal of any license;
         (k)   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in the operation of
massage services. If so, applicant shall furnish information as to the name,
place, dates and length of time of the involvement of any and all such
establishments;
         (l)   Federal and state income tax returns, business and personal, for
the previous three years;
         (m)   Other information as the City Council or issuing authority shall
require; and
         (n)   The applicant is responsible for reading and understanding the
city ordinance regarding therapeutic massage and for communicating and
providing interpretation when necessary to all massage therapists licensed at
the enterprise to ensure compliance.
      (2)   Individuals. For applicants who are individuals:
         (a)   The name, place and date of birth and street residence address
of the applicant;
         (b)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name
other than the applicant’s name, and if so, the name or names and information
concerning dates and places where used;
         (c)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or a
resident alien or has the legal authority to work in the United States;
         (d)   Street addresses and dates at which the applicant has lived
during the preceding ten years;
         (e)   The type, name, location and dates of every business or
occupation the applicant has been engaged in during the preceding ten years;
         (f)   Whether the applicant is currently licensed in other communities
to perform massage therapy, and if so, where;
         (g)   Names, addresses, contact information and dates of the
applicant’s employment for the preceding ten years;
         (h)   Whether the applicant has ever been arrested, charged or
convicted of any felony, crime or violation of any ordinance other than a minor
traffic offense. If so, the applicant shall furnish information as to the date,
time, place and offense for which arrests, charges or convictions were had;
         (i)   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, as an individual
or as part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business or
firm, a massage license that was revoked or suspended within the last ten years
of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing authority;
         (j)   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in the operation of
massage services. If so, applicant shall furnish information as to the name,
dates, place and length of time of the involvement in such an establishment;
and
         (k)   Other information as the City Council or issuing authority shall
require.
      (3)   Partnerships. For the applicants that are partnerships: the names
and addresses of all general and limited partners and all information
concerning each general partner as is required in §
116.01(B). The managing partners shall be designated and the interest of each
general and limited partner in the business shall be disclosed. A true copy of
the partnership agreement shall be submitted with the application, and if the
partnership is required to file a certificate as to a trade name under M.S. §
333.02, as it may be amended from time to time, a certified copy of the
certificate shall be submitted. The license shall be issued in the name of the
partnership.
      (4)   Corporations and other organizations. For applicants that are
corporations or other types of organizations:
         (a)   The name of the organization, and if incorporated, the state of
incorporation;
         (b)   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, and, if a
foreign corporation, a certificate of authority as described in M.S. § 303.02,
as it may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   The name of the general manager, corporate officers, proprietor
and other person in charge of the premises to be licensed, and all the
information about these persons as is required in §
116.01(B); and
         (d)   A list of all persons who own or control an interest in the
corporation or organization or who are officers of this corporation or
organization, together with their addresses and all the information regarding
the persons as is required in §
116.01(B).
   (B)   Massage therapist license application. An application for a massage
therapist license shall be made on a form supplied by the City Clerk and shall
request the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name and current address;
      (2)   The applicant’s current employer;
      (3)   The applicant’s employers for the previous ten years, including the
employer’s name, address and dates of employment;
      (4)   The applicant’s addresses and dates for the previous ten years;
      (5)   The applicant’s date of birth, home telephone number, weight,
height, color of eyes and color of hair. A color photocopy of the applicant’s
state driver’s license or MN I.D. front and back, or any other government-
issued I.D. If the photocopy is not acceptable to the Police Chief, the Police
Department may take photographs for the file;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has ever been arrested, charged or convicted
of any felony, crime or violation of any ordinance other than a minor traffic
offense and, if so, the time, place, date(s) and offense for which arrests,
charges or convictions were had;
      (7)   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, as an individual or
as part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business or
firm, a massage license that was denied, revoked or suspended within the last
ten years of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing
authority;
      (8)   The names, resident and business addresses and contact information
of those residents of the metropolitan area, of good moral character, not
related to the applicant or financially interested in the premises of the
business, who may be referred to as to the applicant’s character;
      (9)   Whether the applicant is a U.S. citizen or resident alien or has
the legal authority to work in the United States;
      (10)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than the applicant’s name, and if so, the name or names and information
concerning dates and places where used;
      (11)   Whether the applicant has met the definition of a massage
therapist in §
116.03;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has ever been the subject of an
investigation, public or private, criminal or non-criminal, regarding massage
therapy; and
      (13)   Other information as the City Council or issuing authority shall
require.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 116.07 LICENSE FEES.
   The fees for a therapeutic massage enterprise and therapist licenses shall
be as set forth by §
34.04. An investigation fee shall be charged for therapeutic massage enterprise
licenses and an individual therapeutic massage license. Each application for a
license shall be accompanied by payment in full of the required license and
investigation fees. No investigation fee shall be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 116.08 LICENSE APPLICATION VERIFICATION AND CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license. All applications shall be
referred to the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, and other city
departments as the City Administrator shall deem necessary for verification and
investigation of the facts set forth in the application. The Chief of Police,
or his or her designee, is empowered to conduct any and all investigations to
verify the information on the application, including ordering a computerized
criminal history inquiry and/or a driver’s license history inquiry on the
applicant. The individual or individual associated with an entity listed above
applying for a therapeutic massage enterprise license must submit to mandatory
finger printing by the Police Department. The Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, is authorized to access data maintained in the State Bureau of
Criminal Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information system in
accordance with BCA policy. The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, and
other consultants shall make a written recommendation to the City Council as to
the issuance or non-issuance of the license. The City Council or Chief of
Police or his or her designee may order and conduct additional investigation as
it deems necessary, including but not limited to contacting other state
agencies. Upon completion of its investigation, the Council shall grant or deny
the license unless the application is withdrawn prior to Council action.
   (B)   Massage therapist license.
      (1)   Verification and consideration. Within a reasonable period after
receipt of a complete application and applicable fees for a massage therapist
license, the issuing authority shall make recommendation to grant or deny the
application. The issuing authority is empowered to conduct any and all
investigations to verify the information on the application, including ordering
a computerized criminal history inquiry, background check and/or a driver’s
license history inquiry on the applicant. All individual applicants applying
for a massage therapist license must submit to mandatory finger printing by the
Police Department. The massage therapist applicant must also provide three
letters of reference from former employers or in conjunction with instructors
who provided vocational instruction associated with the 500 hours of massage
therapy study. The City Council or Chief of Police or his or her designee may
order and conduct additional investigation as it deems necessary, including but
not limited to contacting other state agencies. Notice shall be sent by the
City Clerk by regular mail to the applicant upon a denial informing the
applicant of the right to appeal to the City Council within 20 days. If an
appeal is properly made, the matter shall be scheduled before a hearing
officer, on behalf of the City Council, for consideration and conclusion.
      (2)   Photo I.D. cards. The message therapist applicant must provide a
current two by two inch color photo of the applicant that clearly shows the
full applicant’s uncovered face in view. This photo shall be affixed to the
license at all times if approved by the City Council and will have it readily
available whenever the applicant is on the property of the massage enterprise
applicant’s property.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 116.09 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license. No therapeutic massage
enterprise license shall be issued to an individual or entity which:
      (1)   Is not 18 years of age or older at the time the application is
submitted to the issuing authority;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 2, as it may be amended from
time to time, and who has not shown competent evidence of sufficient
rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties and responsibilities
of a licensee as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time;
      (3)   Has had an interest in, as an individual or as part of a
corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business or firm, a massage
license in any jurisdiction that was denied, revoked or suspended within the
last ten years of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing
authority;
      (4)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien, or is
legally prohibited from working in the United States;
      (5)   Is not of good moral character or repute;
      (6)   Is not the real party in interest of the enterprise;
      (7)   Has knowingly misrepresented or falsified information on a license
application at any time in the preceding ten years;
      (8)   Cannot meet the definition of therapeutic massage enterprise in §
116.03;
      (9)   Owes taxes or assessments to the state, county, school district or
city that are due and delinquent;
      (10)   Is the spouse of a person whose massage-related license has been
denied, suspended or revoked in the past ten years;
      (11)   Allowed a license to expire or surrendered a license, unless, at
the sole discretion of the city, a license application is submitted for
consideration. The application shall be treated the same as an application for
a new license, subject to all ordinance regulations and review; or
      (12)   The city’s massage therapist ordinance does not provide for a
“mobile” or transient performance of massage therapy services that is not
located at the particular addressed property that has obtained a message
therapy enterprise license.
   (B)   Massage therapist license. No massage therapist license shall be
issued to a person who:
      (1)   Is not 18 years of age or older at the time the application is
submitted to the issuing authority;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 2, as it may be amended from
time to time, and who has not shown competent evidence of sufficient
rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties and responsibilities
of a licensee as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, individually or as
part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business or firm,
a massage license that was denied, revoked or suspended within the last ten
years of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing
authority;
      (4)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien, or is
legally prohibited from working in the United States;
      (5)   Is not of good moral character or repute;
      (6)   Has knowingly misrepresented or falsified information on a license
application at any time in the preceding ten years;
      (7)   Is not affiliated with, employed by or does not own a therapeutic
massage enterprise licensed by the city;
      (8)   Cannot meet the definition of massage therapist in §
116.03; or
      (9)   Allowed a license to expire or surrendered a license, unless, at
the sole discretion of the city, a license application is submitted for
consideration. The application shall be treated the same as an application for
a new license, subject to all ordinance regulations and review.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 116.10 LOCATIONS INELIGIBLE FOR THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ENTERPRISE LICENSE.
   (A)   Delinquent taxes. No therapeutic massage enterprise shall be licensed
if the enterprise is located on property on which taxes, assessments or other
financial claims to the state, county, school district or city are due and
delinquent. In the event a suit has been commenced under M.S. §§ 278.01 to
278.13, as they may be amended from time to time, questioning the amount or
validity of taxes, the City Council may on application waive strict compliance
with this provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes or any
portion thereof, which remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after
becoming due.
   (B)   Improper zoning. No therapeutic massage enterprise shall be licensed
if the location of the enterprise is not in conformance with the city’s zoning
code.
   (C)   Building, Fire and Code compliance violations. No therapeutic massage
enterprise shall be licensed if the location of the enterprise is not in
compliance with State Building and Fire Codes in addition to this code.
   (D)   Distinct entrance. No therapeutic massage enterprise, unless a home-
based enterprise, shall be licensed if the location of the enterprise does not
have a distinct, front-facing, public entrance. A distinct, front-facing public
entrance for an entire building is required for enterprise locations with
multiple suites.
   (E)   Previous license infractions. No therapeutic massage enterprise
license shall be issued or renewed if the massage therapy enterprise has
employed two or more massage therapists whose licenses have been suspended and/
or revoked within any 12-month period during period of employment.
   (F)   Notice. Notice of revocation proceedings to property owner and
limitation on issuance of license for property where there has been a previous
infraction(s).
      (1)   The property owner of a premises that is subject to a massage
license revocation will receive notice of an intent to revoke this license
prior to the actual revocation of the license as well as the notice of
revocation. Failure to provide this notice to the property owner will not
invalidate any massage license revocation.
      (2)   No therapeutic massage enterprise shall be licensed if the
enterprise is located on property on which prior massage therapists have had
their licenses revoked pursuant to this chapter or predecessor ordinances on
the same subject except as follows:
         (a)   A period of at least 24 months has passed since the revocation
of a prior license where this prior revocation was the only revocation at that
location in the preceding 60 months;
         (b)   A period of at least 60 months has passed since the revocation
of a prior license where this prior revocation was the second revocation at
that location in the preceding 60 months;
         (c)   A period of at least 84 months has passed since the revocation
of a prior license where this prior revocation was the third or greater number
of revocations at that location in the preceding 120 months; and
         (d)   For purposes of this division (F)(2), the period of revocation
will begin to run from the date of action by the city, whether by the City
Council, hearing officer or other authorized city representative revoking this
license.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 116.11 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Posting of license. A therapeutic massage enterprise license issued
must be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises for which it is used. A
person licensed as a massage therapist shall also post their massage therapist
license, with color photo, in a conspicuous place on the premises at which the
therapist is associated. A person licensed as a massage therapist shall have it
readily available at all times where therapeutic massage services are rendered,
and the photo identification as noted in §
116.08(B)(2).
   (B)   Licensed premises. A therapeutic massage enterprise license is only
effective for the compact and contiguous space specified in the approved
license application. If the licensed premises is enlarged, altered or extended,
the licensee shall inform the City Clerk within ten business days. A massage
therapist license shall entitle the licensed therapist to perform on-site
massage at the therapeutic massage enterprise they are licensed for, the place
of residence of the licensed massage therapist or client, or at an office,
business, park or institution excluding hotel and motel guest rooms. It shall
be the continuing duty of each licensee to properly notify the City Clerk,
within ten business days, of any change in the information or facts required to
be furnished on the application for license and failure to comply with this
section shall constitute cause for revocation or suspension of the license. All
therapeutic massage must be performed within a building with a valid
certificate of occupancy and not in or upon any vacant lot, lot, motor vehicle,
trailer, tent or railroad car, including, but not limited to, structures not
meant for human habitation.
   (C)   Transfer of license prohibited. The license issued is for the person
or the premises named on the approved license application. No transfer of a
license shall be permitted from place to place or from person to person without
complying with the requirements of an original application.
   (D)   Affiliation with enterprise required. A massage therapist shall be
employed by, affiliated with, or own a massage enterprise business licensed by
the city, unless a person or place is specifically exempted from obtaining a
therapeutic massage enterprise license in §
116.05.
   (E)   Employment of unlicensed massage therapists prohibited. No therapeutic
massage enterprise shall employ or use any person to perform massage who is not
licensed as a therapeutic massage therapist under this section, unless the
person is specifically exempted from obtaining a therapist license in §
116.05.
   (F)   Coverage of genitals/breasts during massage. The licensee shall
require that the person who is receiving the massage shall completely cover at
all times genitals and breasts with non-transparent material or clothing.
   (G)   Therapist dress/uniform requirements. Any therapist performing massage
shall at all times be dressed professionally, including short-sleeved crew neck
shirts, skirts and shorts no shorter than three inches above the knees, nails
clean, trimmed and neat, hair pulled back and closed-toed shoes.
   (H)   Effect of license suspension or revocation. No licensee shall solicit
business or offer to perform massage services while under license suspension or
revocation by the city.
   (I)   Massage of certain body parts prohibited. At no time shall the massage
therapist intentionally massage or offer to massage the penis, scrotum, mons
veneris, vulva, vaginal area or breasts of a person, except that massage of
pectoral muscles may be performed if requested by customer or patron.
   (J)   Restrictions regarding hours of operation. No therapeutic massage
enterprise shall be open for business, nor will any therapeutic massage
therapist offer massage services, before 6:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. any day
of the week. No customers or patrons shall be allowed to remain upon the
licensed premises before 6:00 a.m . or after 9:00 p.m. any day of the week.
Support activities such as cleaning, maintenance and bookkeeping are allowed
outside of business hours.
   (K)   Proof of local residency required.
      (1)   In the case of a therapeutic massage enterprise, the licensee,
managing partner or manager of the licensed premises must show proof of
residency within 150 miles of the city.
      (2)   In the case of therapeutic massage therapists, the licensee must
show proof of residing within 150 miles of the city.
   (L)   Inspections. In light of the high risk of involvement with illegal
conduct an establishment providing massage therapy poses to the general public,
the issuing authority, environmental health department or designee, and/or the
City Police Department shall have the right to enter, inspect and search the
licensed premises during the hours in which the licensed premises is open for
business to ensure compliance with all provisions of this section. Any search
of the licensed premises are subject to reasonableness standards as recognized
by the courts; search warrants will be secured when applicable. Any entry into
a private residence will require either consent, exigent circumstances or a
search warrant. With reasonable notice, the business records of the licensee,
including income tax returns, shall be available for inspection during the
hours in which the licensed premises is open for business. The licensee is
subject to a $250 fee for a third inspection, if orders to correct are issued
to the licensee and those orders are not corrected upon re-inspection. Licenses
shall be granted only to establishments which can meet the safety and sanitary
requirements of the city and of the building code regulations of the city and
state.
   (M)   Posting of rates. All massage enterprise businesses must post their
rates for service in a prominent place in the entrance or lobby of the
business.
   (N)   Illegal activities. In addition to the license restrictions set forth
in this section, any advertising by a licensee or representative of licensee of
any potential unlawful, misleading, sexually explicit, obscene or erotic
conduct at the licensed establishment shall be prohibited. A licensee under
this chapter shall be strictly responsible for the conduct of the business
being operated in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances, including
the actions of any employee or agent of the licensee on the licensed premises.
No audio or visual recording is allowed at any time.
   (O)   Restrictions involving minors. No person under the age of 18 shall be
permitted at any time to be in or on the licensed premises as a customer, guest
or employee, unless accompanied by his or her parent or guardian.
   (P)   Food preparation. Food preparation on site shall only occur in
locations specifically designed for that purpose and with proper building
permits having been obtained. Food preparation is limited to use for employees
during breaks during the regular shift.
   (Q)   Habitation. Massage enterprises shall not contain nor allow the use by
any person of sleeping quarters or living spaces of any kind intended for
habitation, including, but not limited to, beds, cots or mattresses. Home-based
enterprises shall not contain nor allow the use by any person of sleeping
quarters or living spaces of any kind intended for habitation, including but
not limited to beds, cots or mattresses in any area where massage is performed.
   (R)   Intoxicating alcoholic beverages. Per M.S. § 340A.401, as it may be
amended from time to time, no person may directly or indirectly, on any
pretense or by any device, sell, barter, keep for sale, charge for possession
or otherwise dispose of intoxicating alcoholic beverages onsite. Intoxicating
alcoholic beverages does not include alcohol used in direct conjunction with
massage therapy such as in cleaning.
   (S)   Sign permit required. In the event of transfer or new ownership of any
existing massage enterprise.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021; Ord. 282, passed 3-12-2024;
Ord. 300, passed 4-21-2026) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.12 RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SANITATION, HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   (A)   Toilet room requirements. A licensed therapeutic massage enterprise
shall be equipped with adequate and conveniently located toilet rooms for the
accommodation of its employees and patrons. The toilet room shall be well
ventilated by natural or mechanical methods and be enclosed with a door. The
toilet room shall be kept clean and in good repair and shall be adequately
lighted.
   (B)   Paper/linen requirements. A licensed therapeutic massage enterprise
shall provide single-service disposal paper or clean linens to cover the
massage therapy table or chair, on which the patron receives the massage; or in
the alternative, if the massage therapy table or chair, on which the patron
receives the massage is made of material impervious to moisture, the massage
therapy table or chair shall be properly sanitized after each massage.
   (C)   Washing of hands required. The massage therapist shall wash his or her
hands and arms with water and soap, anti-bacterial scrubs, alcohol or other
disinfectants prior to and following each massage service performed.
   (D)   Door latches and locks. Doors on massage therapy rooms shall not be
locked or capable of being locked. Locks, latches or other devices intended to
secure a door so as to prevent it from being opened by any person from either
side of the door with or without a key cannot be present on any doors of rooms
intended for massage therapy.
   (E)   Equipment. All modalities shall be performed on a raised massage
therapy table or chair; no bed, mattress or other similar type equipment shall
be allowed onsite except for a mat similar to those used in yoga. No modality
may be performed that requires a massage therapist to stand on the massage
therapy table or chair unless necessary due to size ratio of massage therapist/
client.
   (F)   Prohibited modalities. Modalities involving work performed on the
floor or requiring a massage therapist to stand on a massage therapy table,
including but not limited to Shiatsu are strictly prohibited unless completely
clothed and massage therapist is certified in Shiatsu or other modality by an
accredited institution or program.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.13 TERM, RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The term of a massage therapist license and a therapeutic massage
enterprise license is one year. If an individual or enterprise submits a new
application any time during a calendar year, the term shall expire December 31
of the year of issuance. The new application license fee for a partial calendar
year may be pro-rated to one-half of the annual fee if an application is filed
with the issuing authority after June 30.
   (B)   Licenses must be renewed annually. A massage therapist license issued
under this chapter shall expire on December 31 of the year of issuance of the
license. A therapeutic massage enterprise license issued under this section
shall expire on December 31 of the year of issuance. An application for the
renewal of an existing license shall be made at least 75 days prior to the
expiration date of the license and shall be made in a form as the issuing
authority requires.
   (C)   An application for a renewal of an enterprise or individual license
shall be made on the renewal application form provided by the city. The license
and investigation fees for a renewal shall be the same as those contained in §
34.04. If the license holder is a corporation, licenses must also be renewed
within 30 days whenever more than 10% of the corporation’s stock is
transferred. If the license holder is a partnership, the license must also be
renewed within 30 days whenever a new partner is added to the partnership. If
the license holder is an LLC, the license must be renewed within 30 days
whenever a change in membership or chief manager occurs.
   (D)   After the completion of the renewal license verification process, the
issuing authority shall present the enterprise license application to the City
Council in accordance with this section. If the application is denied, the City
Clerk shall notify the applicant of the determination in writing and by regular
mail to the address provided on the application form. The notice shall inform
the applicant of the right, within 20 days after receipt of the notice by the
applicant, to request an appeal of the denial. If an appeal is timely received
by the City Clerk, the hearing before a hearing officer, on behalf of the City
Council, shall take place within a reasonable period of receipt of the appeal
by the issuing authority.
   (E)   After the completion of the renewal license verification process, the
issuing authority shall issue the massage therapist license in accordance with
this chapter. If the application is denied, the City Clerk shall notify the
applicant of the determination in writing and by regular mail to the address
provided on the application form. The notice shall inform the applicant of the
right, within 20 days after receipt of the notice by the applicant, to request
an appeal of the denial. If an appeal is timely received by the City Clerk, the
hearing before a hearing officer, on behalf of the City Council, shall take
place within a reasonable period of receipt of the appeal by the issuing
authority.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 116.14 SANCTIONS FOR LICENSE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Suspension or revocation. A hearing officer, on behalf of the City
Council, may impose an administrative penalty, suspend or revoke a license
issued pursuant to this section, at its discretion, for:
      (1)   A violation related to fraud, misrepresentation or false statement
contained in a license application or a renewal application;
      (2)   A violation related to fraud, misrepresentation or false statement
made in the course of carrying on the licensed occupation or business;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter or state law;
      (4)   A violation by any licensee or individual that is directly related
to the occupation or business licensed, as defined by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 2,
as it may be amended from time to time;
      (5)   Conducting the licensed business or occupation in an unlawful
manner or in a manner so as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the community;
      (6)   If the owner, manager, lessee or any of the employees are found to
be in control or possession of an alcoholic beverage, a narcotic drug or
controlled substance on the premises, other than drugs which may be purchased
over the counter without a prescription or those for which the individual has a
prescription;
      (7)   If the holder of an enterprise license fails to maintain with the
issuing authority a current list of all employees of the licensed premises. The
list shall include all massage therapists licensed under this section;
      (8)   A material variance in the actual plan and design of the premises
from the plans submitted;
      (9)   Neither the charging of a criminal violation nor a criminal
conviction is required in order for the hearing officer on behalf of the
council or issuing authority to impose an administrative penalty or suspend,
deny or revoke a license; and
      (10)   In the event of multiple massage enterprise locations, any license
suspension/revocation shall apply to any and all massage enterprise locations
within the city.
   (B)   Notice and hearing. A revocation or suspension by the hearing officer,
on behalf of the City Council, shall be preceded by written notice to the
licensee. The notice shall give at least ten days’ notice of the time and place
of the hearing and shall state the nature of the charges against the licensee.
The notice shall be mailed by regular mail to the licensee at the most recent
address listed on the license application.
   (C)   Ability to reapply after revocation. The holder of a massage
enterprise license or massage therapist license may not reapply for a new
license for a period of five years if their license is revoked under this
chapter.
   (D)   Ability to reapply after denial. The applicant for a massage
enterprise license or massage therapist license may not reapply for a license
for a period of five years if the applicant’s license has previously been
denied due to fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in a
previous license or renewal application.
   (E)   Previous license infractions. In the event there is a license
infraction or a pending citation involving a licensed establishment and/or a
licensed massage therapist, the city may, at its option, choose to not to take
action on any license or renewal application until the infraction or pending
citation has been resolved. The applicant for a massage enterprise license or
massage therapist license may not be eligible to reapply for a license for a
period of five years if the licensee is convicted of any violation of the
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.15 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee may immediately suspend a
license, pending a hearing, if the licensee, or any person working on behalf of
the licensee, is determined to be conducting business in an unlawful manner,
any manner that constitutes a breach of the peace or a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public, or after repeated complaints received
regarding conduct of business practices or method of solicitation.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
 § 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor under state law and shall be punished by a fine or by imprisonment,
or both, together with the costs of prosecution. Each violation of this chapter
shall constitute a separate offense. The facts leading to arrests, charges or
conviction of a violation of this chapter, while not required, may be
considered in identifying grounds for the nonrenewal, suspension, denial or
revocation of any license issued under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
CHAPTER 117: CANNABINOID PRODUCTS
Section
Administration
   
117.01   Purpose
   
117.02   Findings
   
117.03   Authority and jurisdiction
   
117.04   Administration and enforcement
   
117.05   Definitions and interpretations
Registration of Cannabis Retail Businesses
   
117.20   Consent to registering of cannabis retail businesses
   
117.21   Compliance checks prior to retail registration
   
117.22   Registration and application procedure
   
117.23   Renewal of registration
   
117.24   Suspension of registration
   
117.25   Limiting of registrations
   
117.26   Violations
Requirements for Cannabis Businesses
   
117.40   Minimum buffer requirements
   
117.41   Hours of operation
   
117.42   Adulterated or misbranded products
   
117.43   Signage
   
117.44   Responsibility
   
117.45   Prohibitions
Other Restrictions
   
117.60   Permit required for temporary cannabis events
   
117.61   Use in public places
 
   
117.99   Penalty
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 117.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To implement the provisions of M.S. Chapter 342, as it may be amended
from time to time, which authorizes the City Council to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of the city residents by regulating cannabis
businesses within the legal boundaries of the city; and
   (B)   To establish licensing regulations for the sale of cannabinoid
products derived from hemp, as provided in M.S. § 151.72, as may be amended
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
§ 117.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the need to
regulate, license and inspect establishments that sell cannabinoid products:
   (A)   By enacting 2022 Session Law Chapter 98, Article 13, the State
Legislature amended M.S. § 151.72 to allow for the sale of certain cannabinoid
products. This law does not prohibit municipalities from licensing the sale of
cannabinoid products derived from hemp locally;
   (B)   By enacting M.S. Chapter 342, as it may be amended from time to time,
the State Legislature allows for the regulation of cannabis businesses;
   (C)   The National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine note that
the growing acceptance, accessibility and use of cannabis and its derivatives
have raised important public health concerns, while the lack of aggregated
knowledge of cannabis-related health effects has led to uncertainly about the
impact of its use;
   (D)   The State Legislature recognized the danger of cannabis use among
youth by prohibiting the sale of any product containing cannabinoid or
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) extracted or otherwise derived from hemp to those
under the age of 21 and requiring that edible cannabinoid products be packaged
without appeal to children and in child-resistant packaging or containers;
   (E)   Due to the passage of these laws by the State Legislature, the City
Council believes the rules, regulations and standards for licensing the sale of
cannabinoid products contained in this section are necessary to promote and
protect the public health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the
city; and
   (F)   The City Council finds and concludes that the proposed provisions are
appropriate and lawful land use regulations for the city, that the proposed
amendments will promote the community’s interest in reasonable stability in
zoning for now and in the future, and that the proposed provisions are in the
public interest and for the public good.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
§ 117.03 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   The City Council has the authority to adopt this chapter, which is
applicable to the legal boundaries of the city, pursuant to:
   (A)   M.S. § 342.13(c), as it may be amended from time to time, regarding
the authority of a local unit of government to adopt reasonable restrictions of
the time, place and manner of the operation of a cannabis business provided
that the restrictions do not prohibit the establishment or operation of
cannabis businesses;
   (B)   M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the
local registration and enforcement requirements of state-licensed cannabis
retail businesses and lower-potency hemp edible retail businesses;
   (C)   M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding the use of cannabis in public places;
   (D)   M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the
authority of a local authority to adopt zoning ordinances; and
   (E)   M.S. § 151.72, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the
sale of certain cannabinoid products.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
§ 117.04 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The city is responsible for the administration and enforcement of this
chapter. Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as
defined by law. Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or
not a permit is required for a regulated activity listed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
§ 117.05 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.
The masculine shall include the feminine and neuter, and vice-versa. The term
SHALL means mandatory and the term MAY means permissive. Unless otherwise noted
in this chapter, words and phrases contained in M.S. §§ 151.72 and 342.01, and
the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, are adopted and
incorporated into this chapter, as amended from time to time. The provisions of
this chapter shall be considered minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the city and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal
of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   CANNABINOID PRODUCT. A cannabis product.
   CANNABINOID PRODUCT (HEMP DERIVED CONSUMER). Any product containing
nonintoxicating cannabinoids extracted from hemp, including lower-potency hemp
edible products, that is sold for human or animal consumption. This definition
includes any lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. Any cannabis business licensed or endorsed to grow
cannabis plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant
to mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plans and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, and perform other actions approved by the office. This also
includes industrial hemp operations.
   CANNABIS DELIVERY SERVICE/SALE. The sale of any cannabinoid products to any
person for personal consumption and not for resale when the sale is conducted
by any means other than an in-person, over-the-counter sales transaction in a
licensed retail establishment. DELIVERY SALE includes, but is not limited to,
the sale of any cannabinoid products when the sale is conducted by telephone,
other voice transmission, mail, the internet or app-based service. DELIVERY
SALE includes delivery by licensees or third parties by any means, including
curbside pick-up.
   CANNABIS MANUFACTURER. Any cannabis business licensed to turn raw, dried
cannabis and cannabis parts into other type of cannabis products.
   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS. A retail location and the retail location(s) of a
mezzobusiness with a retail operations endorsement, microbusiness with a retail
operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a retail
location, including lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
    CANNABIS WHOLESALER. A business licensed by the state to purchase cannabis
and cannabis products from licensed cultivators, manufacturers or
microbusinesses and sell to other licensed CANNABIS WHOLESALERS or cannabis
retailers. This use does not include on-site consumption or direct sales to
consumers.
   CERTIFIED HEMP. As provided in M.S. § 151.72, subd. 1(c), as may be amended
from time to time.
   CITY. The City of Becker.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell cannabinoid products and hemp derived consumer
cannabinoid products are following and complying with the requirements of state
laws, OCM licenses and this chapter.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Becker.
   DAYCARE. A location licensed with the State Department of Human Services to
provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child’s own home for
gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
   INDUSTRIAL HEMP. The same definition as provided for in M.S. § 18K.02, subd.
3, as may be amended from time to time.
   LABEL. The definition for the same provided in M.S. § 151.01, subd. 18, as
may be amended.
   LABELING. The definition for the same provided in M.S. § 151.72, subd. 1(h),
as may be amended.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. The definition for the same provided in M.S. §
342.10, subd. 50, as it may be amended from time to time.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP MANUFACTURER. Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturers may
manufacture and package lower-potency hemp edibles for consumer sale, and sell
hemp concentrate and lower-potency hemp edibles to other cannabis and hemp
businesses.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any fixed place of business where
hemp derived consumer cannabinoid products, specifically lower-potency hemp
edibles, are available for sale to the general public. RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT,
for purposes of this chapter, does not include residences.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP WHOLESALER. Any fixed place of business licensed by the
State Office of Cannabis Management which license permits the license holder to
purchase lower-potency hemp edibles from licensed businesses and sell them to
other licensed businesses; import and export lower-potency hemp edibles;
transport lower-potency hemp edibles; and export products containing
cannabinoids that do not qualify as lower-potency hemp edibles consistent with
the requirements of M.S. Chapter 342 and Minn. Rules, Chapter 9810, as they may
be amended from time to time.
   MATRIX BARCODE. The definition for the same provided in M.S. § 151.72, subd.
1(i), as may be amended.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business that is operated out of a
kiosk, truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter
and that is not a fixed address or other permanent type of structure licensed
for over-the-counter sales transactions.
   NONINTOXICATING CANNABINOID. A cannabinoid that when introduced into the
human body does not impair the central nervous system and does not impair the
human audio, visual or mental processes. NONINTOXICATING CANNABINOID includes,
but is not limited to, cannabidiol and cannabigerol but does not include any
artificially derived cannabinoid.
   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. The State Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as OCM in this chapter.
   OPERATOR. The person in legal possession and control of a location by reason
of ownership, lease, contract or agreement, for the sale of cannabinoid
products at retail.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals;
nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings, and other places of public accommodation.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. A 24-hour-a-day program for persons under
the treatment supervision of a mental health professional or substance use
disorder professional, in a community residential setting other than an acute
care hospital or regional treatment center inpatient unit, that must be
licensed as a residential treatment program by the state.
   RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the city to a state
licensed cannabis retail business.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SCHOOL. A public school including elementary, middle and secondary school as
defined under M.S. § 120A.05, as it may be amended from time to time, or a
nonpublic school that must meet the reporting requirements under M.S. §
120A.24, as it may be amended from time to time.
   SELF-SERVICE VENDING. The display for sale of cannabinoid products that are
accessible to the public without the need of assistance of an employee.
   STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State Office of Cannabis
Management to a cannabis retail business.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electrical or electronic or other type of
device that dispenses cannabinoid products upon the insertion of money, tokens
or other form of payment into or onto the device by the person seeking to
purchase cannabinoid products.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
**** REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES ****
§ 117.20 CONSENT TO REGISTERING OF CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES.
   No individual or entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis retail
business within the city without first registering with the city. Any state-
licensed cannabis retail business that sells to a customer or patient without
valid retail registration shall incur a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.21 COMPLIANCE CHECKS PRIOR TO RETAIL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a cannabis retail business registration, the city
shall conduct a preliminary compliance check to ensure compliance with local
ordinances. At the time the initial application for registration is made,
payment of an investigation fee, not refundable to the applicant, to cover the
cost to the city of processing the application and investigating the applicant
must be paid. No investigations shall be required of an applicant for
registration renewal unless so ordered by the Council.
    (B)   Pursuant to M.S. Chapter 342, as it may be amended from time to time,
within 30 days of receiving a copy of a state license application from OCM, the
city shall certify on a form provided by the OCM whether a proposed cannabis
retail business complies with local zoning ordinances and, if applicable,
whether the proposed business complies with the State Fire Code and Building
Code, being Minn. Rules, Chapters 7511 and 1035, as they may be amended from
time to time, respectively.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
Cross-reference:
   Building Code adopted, see §
150.01
§ 117.22 REGISTRATION AND APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Fees.
      (1)   The city shall not charge an application fee. A registration fee
shall be charged to applicants depending on the type of retail business license
applied for in accordance with this section.
      (2)   An initial retail registration fee shall be $500 or half the amount
of an initial state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, as it may be amended from
time to time, whichever is less. The initial registration fee shall include the
initial retail registration fee and the first annual renewal fee.
      (3)   Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by the city shall be
charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent renewal
thereafter.
      (4)   A renewal retail registration fee shall be $1,000 or half the
amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, as it may be amended
from time to time, whichever is less.
      (5)   A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail
location may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the
lesser of a single retail registration fee, defined under this chapter, of the
adult-use retail business.
   (B)   Application submittal. The city shall issue a retail registration to a
state-licensed cannabis retail business that adheres to the requirements of
M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the city. This form shall include, but is not
limited to:
         (a)    Full name of the property owner and applicant;
         (b)   Address, email address and telephone number of the applicant;
         (c)   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought;
         (d)   Certification that the applicant complies with the requirements
of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13, as amended from time
to time;
         (e)   The registration fee as required in division (A) above;
         (f)   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM
license, if approved, but not yet issued;
         (g)   The name of the business, if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name, or style other than the name of the applicant, as required
by the Secretary of State under M.S. § 333.01, as it may be amended from time
to time;
         (h)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises have been paid and, if not paid, the years and
amounts that are unpaid;
         (i)   A written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of
perjury, that the information contained in the application is true. If the
applicant is a corporation, an officer must sign the written declaration. If
the applicant is an unincorporated association, the manager or managing officer
must sign the written declaration; and
         (j)   Other information that the city may require but is not otherwise
prohibited under M.S. §§ 342.10 to 342.18, as they may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   Once an application is considered complete, the City Clerk shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees and either approve
or deny the application.
      (3)   Failure to submit all required information and documentation within
the 30 days of the initial registration application submission will result in a
denial of the application.
      (4)   Once an application is considered complete, it shall be reviewed in
the order in which it was received.
      (5)   The registration fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
   (C)   Application approval.
      (1)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not be
approved if the cannabis retail business would exceed the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses permitted under §
117.26.
      (2)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not be
approved if the cannabis retail business would be located on a property that
does not permit the business under the zoning ordinance of the city.
      (3)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not be
approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
      (4)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application that meets
the requirements of this chapter shall be approved, except as provided for in
divisions (C)(1) through (C)(3) above.
   (D)   Annual compliance checks.
      (1)   The City Clerk, in coordination with the City Police Department
shall complete, at minimum, one unannounced age verification compliance check
per calendar year of every cannabis business that the city registers, to assess
if the business meets age verification requirements, as required under M.S. §
342.22, subd. 4(b) and M.S. § 342.24, as may be amended, and this section. They
shall also verify compliance with all other provisions of this chapter as
established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13, as it may be amended from time to time.
       (2)   Age verification compliance checks shall involve persons at least
17 years of age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written consent of
a parent or guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt to purchase
adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles or hemp-derived consumer products under the direct supervision of a law
enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of government.
      (3)   Compliance with age verification checks constitutes a reasonable
restriction on the manner of operation for a cannabis retail business. The
following are violations of an age verification compliance check:
         (a)   Employment of or contracting with an individual under 21 years
of age if the individual’s scope of work involves handling cannabis plants,
cannabis flowers, artificially derived cannabinoids or cannabinoid products;
         (b)   Allowing an individual under 21 years of age to enter the
business premises unless the individual is a person enrolled in the registry
program; and
         (c)   Selling or giving cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles or hemp-derived consumer products to an individual under
21 years of age unless the individual is enrolled in the registry program and
the cannabis business holds a medical cannabis retail endorsement.
      (4)   Any failures under this chapter must be reported to the Office of
Cannabis Management and may result in a registration suspension or other civil
or criminal penalty or remedy.
      (5)   Compliance checks may also be conducted by the city or other units
of government for educational, research, and training purposes or for
investigating or enforcing federal, state or local laws and regulations
relating to cannabinoid products.
   (E)   Location change. A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be
required to submit a new application for registration under division (B) above
if it seeks to move to a new location still within the legal boundaries of the
city.
   (F)   Registration non-transferrable. A retail registration issued under
this chapter may not be transferred to another person, entity or license
holder. M.S. § 342.22, subd. 3(d), as it may be amended from time to time. A
retail registration shall terminate if the registered license holder:
      (1)   Sells, assigns, transfers or otherwise disposes of the license
issued under M.S. Chapter 342, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Sells, assigns, transfers or otherwise disposes of more than 51% of
the ownership, controlling interest or stock in the entity that held the
license issued under M.S. Chapter 342, as it may be amended from time to time;
or
      (3)   Dissolves the entity that held the license issued under M.S.
Chapter 342, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Registration mistakenly issued or renewed. If a registration is
mistakenly issued or renewed to any person or entity, for any reason,
including, but not limited to, the submission of false or misleading
information by the license holder or applicant, the registration will be
suspended upon the discovery of ineligibility for registration under this
chapter or state or other local law, ordinance or other regulation. Any
suspension will comply with the requirements of M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5, as
amended from time to time.
   (H)   License holder responsibility. Every cannabis retail business
registration holder is responsible for conduct on the registered premises and
any sale of cannabis, hemp or products containing cannabis or hemp by an
employee is the act of the registration holder for the purposes of all
provisions of this chapter except enforcement of criminal penalties.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.23 RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Renewal. The city shall renew an annual registration of a state-
licensed cannabis retail business at the same time the OCM renews the cannabis
retail business’ license. A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall apply
to renew registration on a form established by the city.
   (B)   Renewal fees. The city may charge a renewal fee for the registration
starting at the second renewal, as established in the city’s fee schedule.
   (C)   Renewal application. The application for renewal of a retail
registration shall include, but is not limited to, items required under §
117.23(B).
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
§ 117.24 SUSPENSION OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   When suspension is warranted.
      (1)   The city may suspend a cannabis retail business’ registration if it
violates the ordinance of the city, as authorized under M.S. § 342.13, as it
may be amended from time to time, or poses an immediate threat to the health or
safety of the public. The city shall immediately notify the cannabis retail
business in writing the grounds for the suspension.
      (2)   The city may issue the registration holder a written warning if the
violation is the first within 12 months and it does not pose an immediate
threat to the health or safety of the public.
   (B)   Notifications.
      (1)   The city shall immediately notify the cannabis retail business in
writing of the grounds for the suspension and that any sale to a customer or
patient while the suspension is in effect is cause for a civil penalty.
      (2)   The city shall immediately notify the OCM in writing the grounds
for the suspension. OCM will provide the city and the cannabis retailer a
response to the complaint within seven calendar days and perform any necessary
inspections within 30 calendar days.
   (C)   Length of suspension.
      (1)   The suspension of a cannabis retail business registration may be
for up to 30 calendar days, unless the OCM suspends the license for a longer
period. The business may not make sales to customers or patients if their
registration is suspended.
      (2)   The city may reinstate a registration if it determines that the
violation(s) have been resolved.
      (3)   The city shall reinstate a registration if the OCM determines that
the violation(s) have been resolved.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.25 LIMITING OF REGISTRATIONS.
   (A)   The city shall limit the number of cannabis retail businesses to no
more than or fewer than two registrations.
   (B)   This section does not apply to lower-potency hemp edible retail
businesses, medical combination businesses operating a retail location, or
municipal cannabis retail businesses within the city, and registrations for
these businesses are not included the calculations for registration limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
§ 117.26 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violation. No cannabis retailer, cannabis mezzobusiness, cannabis
microbusiness, medical cannabis combination business or lower-potency hemp
edible retailer may make any sale to a customer or patient without a valid
retail registration with the city and a valid license with any applicable
endorsement from OCM. Subject to M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5(e), as it may be
amended from time to time, the city may impose a civil penalty, in accordance
with division (J) below, of no more than $2,000 per unlawful sale, in addition
to any other authorized penalties or consequences, for violating this chapter.
This penalty may be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation from the
city that sets forth the alleged violation and that informs the alleged
violator of their right to be heard on the accusation.
   (B)   Notice. 
      (1)   No civil penalty shall take effect until the retail license holder
has received notice personally or by certified mail of the alleged violation
and of the opportunity for a hearing before the City Council. The notice must
be in writing and must identify the alleged violation(s), the sanction, and
advise the recipient that they have a right to request a hearing before the
City Council within ten business days of receipt of the notice or the right
shall terminate.
      (2)   The City Clerk or other designated city officer will set the time
and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and place will be
mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least ten business days prior to
the hearing.
   (C)   Appeal rights. A license holder who received notice of a civil penalty
must submit a request for a hearing to challenge the allegation within ten
calendar days of the date they receive the notice. Failure to submit a timely
request for a hearing shall result in a waiver of all appeal rights, and the
civil penalty will be implemented on the eleventh day after the date the notice
was received by the license holder. If there is a timely request for a hearing
on the civil penalty, the penalty shall be stayed pending the resolution of the
appeal process.
   (D)   Appeal hearing. If the license holder timely requests a hearing on the
civil penalty, a hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall
be provided to the license holder. The hearing shall be held within 30 calendar
days of the date the request for hearing was received, when practicable.
      (1)   The records of the city, the OCM, any police reports relating to
the violation, and all reliable hearsay shall be admissible for consideration
by the hearing officer without further foundation.
      (2)   The city may be represented by the City Attorney. The alleged
violator may be represented by private legal counsel. The alleged violator does
not have the right to an attorney at public expense.
      (3)   At the hearing, both the alleged violator and the City Attorney may
present the testimony of witnesses, cross-examine witnesses, and present
documentary evidence.
      (4)   The burden of proof shall be upon the city. The standard of proof
shall be a preponderance of the evidence.
      (5)   The scope of the hearing may include whether violation(s) occurred
and the appropriate sanction.
   (E)   Hearing officer. The City Council acts as the hearing officer.
   (F)   Decision.
      (1)   The hearing officer shall prepare written findings and submit them
to the City Council, unless the City Council is the hearing officer in which
case they shall prepare written findings, within 30 calendar days of the close
of the hearing. The findings shall state whether or not a violation occurred,
and if the violation is found a civil penalty of this chapter, of up to $2,000
per violation shall be assessed. The findings shall be served by first class
U.S. mail, as soon as practicable, on the license holder and the city.
      (2)   If the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or finds
grounds for not imposing any penalty, those findings will be recorded and a
copy will be provided to the city and the acquitted accused violator by in-
person delivery or mail as soon as practicable. The decision of the hearing
officer is final, subject to an appeal as described in division (H) below.
   (G)   Costs. If a civil penalty is upheld by the hearing officer or the City
Council, the city’s actual expenses in holding the hearing must be paid by the
license holder who requested the hearing. The city may require the license
holder to deposit $200 prior to the hearing date to be used toward actual
expenses in the event a civil penalty is upheld.
   (H)   Further appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the City Council
shall be filed by a petition for a writ of certiorari to the Court of Appeals
and served on all parties not more than 30 days after the date the findings
were issued.
   (I)   Misdemeanor offense. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city
from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of this
chapter. If the city elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, the action should
not prohibit an administrative penalty also being imposed. Each violation, and
every day in which a violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (J)   Other prohibited acts. Unless otherwise provided, the following acts
are an administrative violation of this chapter. This division (J) shall not
apply to anyone over the ages of 17 and under the age of 21 lawfully involved
in compliance checks.
      (1)   Prohibited furnishing or procurement. It is a violation of this
chapter for any person 21 years of age or older to purchase or otherwise obtain
any licensed product on behalf of a person under the age of 21. It is also a
violation for any person 21 years of age and older to coerce or attempt to
coerce a person under the age of 21 to purchase or attempt to purchase any
licensed product.
      (2)   Use of false identification. It is a violation of this chapter for
any person to use any form of false identification, whether the identification
is that of another person or has been modified or tampered with to represent an
age older than the actual age of the person using that identification.
      (3)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to sell or otherwise provide any cannabis or cannabis related device to
anyone under 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
Penalty, see §
117.99
****   REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESSES ****
§ 117.40 MINIMUM BUFFER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A cannabis retail business is prohibited in the following locations:
      (1)   Within 500 feet of a public or private school, except this shall
not apply to off-sale intoxicating liquor licensed establishments;
      (2)   Within 500 feet of a daycare;
      (3)   Within 500 feet of a residential treatment facility;
      (4)   Within 500 feet of a place of worship; and
      (5)   Within 500 feet of an attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minor, including, but not limited to, a playground or
athletic field.
   (B)   Distance is measured between the closest point of the cannabis retail
business property line to the closest point of the property line of the school,
daycare, residential treatment facility, place of worship or the closest
boundary of a public park regularly used by minors; and
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a lawful active cannabis retail
business or a cannabis retail business seeking registration from continuing
operation at the same site if a school/daycare/residential treatment facility/
place of worship/attraction within a public park that is regularly used by
minors moves within the minimum buffer zone.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.41 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No retail sales of cannabinoid products will be allowed on registered
facility premises after 10:00 p.m. and before 8:00 a.m. daily.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.42 ADULTERATED OR MISBRANDED PRODUCTS.
   A hemp derived cannabinoid products shall be considered adulterated or
misbranded under the provisions set forth in M.S. § 151.72, subd. 6, as may be
amended.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
§ 117.43 SIGNAGE.
   Registrants shall display a sign in plain view to provide public notice that
selling any of these products to any person under the age of 21 is illegal and
subject to penalties. The notice shall be placed in a conspicuous location in
the licensed establishment and shall be readily visible to any person who is
purchasing or attempting to purchase these products. Other signage must be in
accordance with sign regulations in the zoning code of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
§ 117.44 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All registrants are responsible for the actions of their employees regarding
the sale, offer to sell and furnishing of cannabinoid products on the licensed
premises. The sale, offer to sell or furnishing of any cannabinoid product by
an employee shall be considered an act of the registrant.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
§ 117.45 PROHIBITIONS.
   No cannabis retail business or hemp product retailer shall sell or offer to
sell any licensed product in alignment with the following prohibitions.
   (A)   Self-service displays. All cannabinoid products must be stored behind
the sales counter, in a locked case, in a storage unit or in another area not
freely accessible to the general public. No person shall allow the sale of
cannabinoid products in open displays that are accessible to the public without
the intervention of a store employee. This section does not apply to a retail
establishment, as defined in this chapter, that is continuously staffed by an
employee from which persons under 21 years of age are prohibited from entering
the store or by which is otherwise licensed/exempted by the OCM.
   (B)   Prohibition against retail sales of cannabinoid products by vending
machines. No person will sell or dispense cannabinoid products through use of a
vending machine.
   (C)   Delivery; exception. No cannabis or hemp related business with a
retail component or endorsement from the OCM for retail operations shall
provide delivery of its product to retail customers unless expressly allowed by
the OCM and associated license/endorsement except that medical cannabis
retailers can make deliveries to their customers who have a valid medical
cannabis prescription.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
Penalty, see §
117.99
**** OTHER RESTRICTIONS ****
§ 117.60 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   A permit is required to be issued and approved by the City Clerk prior to
holding a temporary cannabis event.
   (A)   Registration and application procedure. A registration fee, as
established in §
117.22(A), shall be charged to applicants for temporary cannabis events.
   (B)   Application submittal and review. The city shall require an
application for temporary cannabis events.
      (1)   An applicant for retail registration shall fill out an application
form, as provided by the city. This form shall include the following
information:
         (a)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
         (b)   Address, email address and telephone number of the applicant;
         (c)   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought;
          (d)   Certification that the applicant complies with the requirements
of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13, as amended from time
to time;
         (e)   The registration fee as required in §
117.22(A);
         (f)   A copy of the OCM cannabis event license application, submitted
pursuant to M.S. § 342.39, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (g)   The name of the event;
         (h)   Number of days the event requested will be held;
         (i)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises where the event will be held have been paid and,
if not paid, the years and amounts that are unpaid;
         (j)   A written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of
perjury, that the information contained in the application is true. If the
applicant is a corporation, an officer must sign the written declaration. If
the applicant is an unincorporated association, the manager or managing officer
must sign the written declaration;
         (k)   Copy of an approved interim use permit; and
         (l)   Other information that the city may require but is not otherwise
prohibited under M.S. Chapter 342, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   The application shall be submitted to the City Clerk or other
designee for review. If the designee determines that a submitted application is
incomplete, they shall return the application to the applicant with the notice
of deficiencies. The Community Development Department shall review to confirm
if the event complies with zoning requirements within the city zoning code
including special event restrictions.
      (3)   Once an application is considered complete, the designee shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the City Council for approval or denial.
      (4)   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      (5)   The application for a license for a temporary cannabis event shall
meet the following standards.
         (a)   The event shall comply with all applicable zoning requirements
within the city zoning code including, but not limited to, the special event
regulations.
         (b)   An interim use permit must be obtained for the event in
accordance with procedures and regulations in the city zoning code.
         (c)   A request for an event that does not meet the requirements of
this chapter or other applicable sections of code, is determined by the city to
cause public health, safety or welfare concerns, or that cannot obtain an
approved interim use permit shall be denied. The city shall notify the
applicant of the standards not met and basis for denial.
          (d)   Events shall only be held at places permitted to hold events as
are dictated by the city zoning code and in accordance with an approved interim
use permit.
         (e)   Temporary cannabis events shall only between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         (f)   Temporary cannabis events shall not exceed more than four days
in duration. Duration shall be determined by the City Council and in accordance
with an approved interim use permit.
         (g)   No on-site consumption, including smoking, eating or otherwise
inhaling, of tobacco, cannabis or lower-potency hemp products is permitted at
temporary cannabis events.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.61 USE IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or a place of
public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment or an event
licensed to permit on-site consumption of adult-use.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
Penalty, see §
117.99
 § 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. A person violates a section, division, paragraph or
provision of this chapter when that person performs an act thereby prohibited
or declared unlawful, and upon conviction thereof, the violation shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions
thereof.
   (B)   Persons under the age of 21. Persons under the age of 21 who use a
false identification to purchase or attempt to purchase licensed products shall
be charged a fine and/or be required to complete diversion programs, community
services or other penalty. The administrative penalty or other penalty shall be
established by ordinance upon the city’s consultation with interested parties
of the courts, educators, parents and children and may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this chapter prohibits the city
from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for an alleged second violation of
this chapter by a person 21 years of age or older within five years of a
previous conviction under the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 292, passed 1-13-2025; Ord. 298, passed 11-8-2025)
CHAPTER 118: GAMBLING
Section
   
118.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
118.02   Purpose
   
118.03   Definitions
   
118.04   Lawful gambling permitted
   
118.05   Council approval
   
118.06   Application and local approval of premises permits
   
118.07   Restrictions on issuance of a premises permit
   
118.08   Organizations and premises eligible
   
118.09   Notification of material changes to application
   
118.10   Lawful purpose expenditures by organizations conducting gambling
   
118.11   Records and reporting
   
118.12   Application and local approval of exempt and excluded permits
   
118.13   Restrictions on issuance of exempt or excluded permits
   
118.14   Hours of operation
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, provisions
relating to sales and all other matters pertaining to lawful gambling are
adopted by reference and are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full.
It is the intention of the Council that all future amendments of M.S. Chapter
349, are adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at
the time this chapter was adopted.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 118.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the city,
to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of operations and to
provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 118.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning, in
addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   BOARD. The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   CITY. The City of Becker.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Becker.
   ORGANIZATION. A fraternal, religious, veterans or other non-profit entity
which has been in existence for at least three years, has at least 15 active
voting members and is not in existence solely for the purpose of conducting
gambling.
   PREMISES PERMIT. A permit granted by the State Gambling Control Board for
each premises where lawful gambling is to be conducted.
   TRADE AREA. The City of Becker, Becker Township, Clear Lake Township, Silver
Creek Township and City of Monticello.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 118.04 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city; provided it is conducted in
accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended
from time to time; M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23, inclusive, as they may be amended
from time to time; and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 118.05 COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Lawful gambling authorized by M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23, inclusive, as
they may be amended from time to time, shall not be conducted unless approved
by the Council, subject to the provisions of this chapter and state law.
   (B)   Excluded or exempt gambling activities as authorized by M.S. §
349.166, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be exempt from Council
approval, but must be submitted to the City Clerk for review and signature.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.06 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit from the Board
shall file with the City Clerk an executed application, together with all
exhibits and documents accompanying the application as will be filed with the
Board.
   (B)   Organizations applying for a state-issued premises permit shall pay
the city a $50 investigation fee and complete the investigation form provided
by the city and furnish any additional information requested. This fee shall be
refunded if the application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced.
The investigation fee shall be waived for charitable organizations originating
within the city.
   (C)   Upon receipt of application for issuance of a premises permit, the
City Clerk shall transmit the application and investigation form to the Chief
of Police for review and recommendations.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall investigate the matter and make review and
recommendations to City Clerk as soon as possible, but in no event later than
45 days following receipt of the application by the city.
   (E)   The applicant shall be notified of the date on which the Council will
consider the recommendation.
   (F)   The Council shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove the
application within 60 days of the receipt of application.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 118.07 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF A PREMISES PERMIT.
   The Council reserves the right to deny an application for issuance or
renewal of a premises permit for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling in last three years;
   (B)   The organization has not been in existence for at least three
consecutive years prior to the date of applications;
   (C)   The organization has less than 15 active voting members; and/or
   (D)   Failure of the applicant to pay the investigative fee provided for by
§
118.06.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 118.08 ORGANIZATIONS AND PREMISES ELIGIBLE.
   No premises permit will be approved unless:
   (A)   The organization meets the definition of an organization as set forth
in §
118.03;
   (B)   Only upon demonstration that no other organization from within the
trade area shows an interest in a lawful gambling premises permit in the city
shall outside organizations be given an opportunity to hold a premises permit
within the city; and
   (C)   If more than one organization within the trade area applies for a
premises permit for the same location, priority shall be given to:
      (1)   The applicant with the least number of approved premises permits
within the city; and
      (2)   The application submitted first.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 118.09 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state-issued premises permit shall notify the city
within ten days in writing whenever any material change is made in the
information submitted on the application.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 118.10 LAWFUL PURPOSE EXPENDITURES BY ORGANIZATIONS CONDUCTING GAMBLING.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall
expend 50% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes conducted
within the city’s trade area.
   (B)   This section applies only to lawful purpose expenditures of gross
profits derived from gambling conducted by organizations holding a premises
permit within the city’s jurisdiction.
   (C)   An organization that conducts gambling on fewer than five days in a
calendar year is exempt from the requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 118.11 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Organizations licensed by the Board conducting lawful gambling shall
file with the City Clerk one copy of all records and reports required to be
filed with the Board, pursuant to M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from
time to time, and rules adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from
time to time. The records and reports shall be filed on or before the day they
are required to be filed with the Board.
   (B)   Organizations licensed by the Board shall file a report with the city
proving compliance with the trade area spending requirements imposed by §
118.12. The report shall be made on a form prescribed by the city and shall be
submitted annually.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 118.12 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF EXEMPT AND EXCLUDED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain an exempt or excluded permit from
the Board shall file with the City Clerk an executed application as will be
filed with the Board.
   (B)   All applications shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police for
recommendations for approval or denial. If gambling activity is held at a city
facility, the application shall also be forwarded to the facility manager for
recommendations to the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 118.13 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF EXEMPT OR EXCLUDED PERMITS.
   The city reserves the right to deny an application for issuance or renewal
of an exempt or excluded permit for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling in last three years; and/or
   (B)   If held at a city facility, the manager has not been notified of
gambling activity scheduled to take place. This shall not preclude applicant
from resubmitting upon notification.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 118.14 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
any day of the week.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter; M.S. §§ 609.75 to
609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time; or M.S. §§ 349.21
to 349.22, as they may be amended from time to time; or any rules promulgated
under those sections, as they may be amended from time to time, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment
for a term not to exceed 90 days, or both, plus in either case the costs of
prosecution. In addition, violations shall be reported to the Board and
recommendation shall be made for suspension, revocation or cancellation of an
organization’s license.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. 242, passed 10-13-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC
PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Exposure of unused container
   
130.03   Curfew for minors
Predatory Offender Residence Restriction
   
130.20   Purpose and intent
   
130.21   Findings
   
130.22   Definitions
   
130.23   Regulations on designated predatory offenders
   
130.24   Property owners renting to designated predatory offenders
Cannabis and Tobacco Regulations
   
130.35   Cannabis use
 
   
130.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person, in a public or private place, knowing, or
having reasonable grounds to know, that it will, or will tend to, alarm, anger
or disturb others or provoke any assault or breach of the peace, to do the
following:
   (A)   Engage in brawling or fighting;
   (B)   Disturb an assembly or meeting, not unlawful in its character;
   (C)   Engage in offensive, obscene or abusive language or in boisterous and
noisy conduct tending reasonably to arouse alarm, anger or resentment in
others;
   (D)   Willfully and lewdly expose his or her person or the private parts
thereof, or procure another to so expose himself or herself; and any open or
gross lewdness or lascivious behavior, or any act of public indecency;
   (E)   Whether or not posted with signs so prohibiting, voluntarily enter the
waters of any river or public swimming pool at any time when these waters are
not properly supervised by trained life saving personnel in attendance for that
purpose, or enter these waters without being garbed in a bathing suit
sufficient to cover his or her person and equal to the standards generally
adopted and accepted by the public;
   (F)   Urinate or defecate in a place other than:
      (1)   If on public property, then in a plumbing fixture provided for that
purpose;
      (2)   If on the private property of another, then in a plumbing fixture
provided for that purpose; or
      (3)   If on private property not owned or controlled by another, then
within a building.
   (G)   Cause the making or production of an unnecessary noise by shouting or
by any other means or mechanism including the blowing of any automobile or
other vehicle horn;
   (H)   Use a sound amplifier upon streets and public property without prior
written permission from the city;
   (I)   Use a flash or spotlight in a manner so as to annoy or endanger
others;
   (J)   Cause defacement, destruction or otherwise damage to any premises or
any property located thereon;
   (K)   Strew, scatter, litter, throw, dispose of or deposit any refuse,
garbage or rubbish unto any premises except into receptacles provided for that
purpose;
   (L)   Enter any motor vehicle of another without the consent of the owner or
operator; and/or
   (M)   Fail or refuse to vacate or leave any premises after being requested
or ordered, whether orally or in writing, to do so, by the owner, or person in
charge thereof, or by any law enforcement agent or official; provided, however,
that this provision shall not apply to any person who is owner or tenant of the
premises involved nor to any law enforcement or other government official who
may be present thereon at that time as part of his or her official duty, nor
shall it include the spouse, children, employee or tenant of the owner or
occupier.   
(Prior Code, § 10.31) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 EXPOSURE OF UNUSED CONTAINER.
   It is unlawful for any person, being the owner or in possession or control
thereof, to permit an unused refrigerator, ice box or other container,
sufficiently large to retain any child and with doors which fasten
automatically when closed, to be exposed and accessible to children, without
removing the doors, lids, hinges or latches.
(Prior Code, § 10.04) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor's household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or Fire Department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing PRIMARY CARE OR CUSTODY to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's
parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence; and/or
      (7)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian or
other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city's designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
Penalty, see §
130.99
**** PREDATORY OFFENDER RESIDENCE RESTRICTION ****
§ 130.20 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to establish predatory offender
residency regulations similar to the predatory offender regulations that have
been promulgated by various Minnesota cities to allow the city to have
regulations and protections in effect for the health, safety and welfare of its
citizens during the city’s study and planning activities related to the
possible enactment of permanent predatory offender residence regulations. The
most common predatory offender residence regulations have prohibitions of
residencies within certain distances of places and areas where children are
known to congregate.
(Prior Code, § 10.47)
§ 130.21 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Repeat sexual offenders, sexual offenders who use physical violence,
and sexual offenders who prey on children are sexual predators who represent an
extreme threat to public safety. Sexual offenders are extremely likely to use
physical violence and to repeat their offenses, and most predatory offenders
have committed many more offenses and have many more victims than are ever
reported or prosecuted. The cost of predatory offender victimization to society
at large, while not precisely calculable, is significant.
   (B)   It is the intent of this subchapter to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of its
citizens by establishing areas around locations where children regularly
congregate in concentrated numbers, wherein certain sexual predators are
prohibited from establishing temporary or permanent residences.
   (C)   The Council has determined that it is necessary and in the public
interest to impose an ordinance limiting the residence location of sexual
predatory offenders within the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.47)
§ 130.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD. Any person under the age of 18.
   DESIGNATED PREDATORY OFFENDER. Any person who is required to register as a
predatory offender under M.S. § 243.166, as may be amended from time to time,
and who has been categorized as a level III predatory offender under M.S. §
244.052, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time, a successor statute
or a similar statute from another state in which the person’s risk assessment
indicates a high risk of re-offense.
   LICENSED CHILD CARE CENTER. A child care center currently licensed by the
Sherburne County, Minnesota, Public Health and Human Services Department or the
State of Minnesota.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges or resides for 14
or more consecutive days.
   PUBLIC PARK. An improved or unimproved public park owned, or proposed to be
owned, or for which preliminary plat approval has been granted, by the city,
the county, a school district or other governmental entity.
   RELIGIOUS FACILITY. A church or other place of worship which provides youth
educational programming, or is improved with an outdoor area designed, equipped
and set aside primarily for children’s play.
   SCHOOL. A public or non-public preschool, elementary, secondary school or
high school.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges or resides for a
period of time of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and
which is not the person’s permanent address or a place where the person
routinely abides, lodges or resides for a period of four or more consecutive or
non-consecutive days in any month and which is not the person’s permanent
residence.
(Prior Code, § 10.47)
§ 130.23 REGULATIONS ON DESIGNATED PREDATORY OFFENDERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any designated predatory offender to
establish a permanent or temporary residence within 2,000 feet of any school,
licensed child care center, religious facility or public park.
   (B)   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation required
by this section, the requirement shall be measured following a straight line
from the outer property line of the permanent or temporary residence of the
designated predatory offender to the nearest outer property line of the
protected property.
   (C)   A designated predatory offender residing within a prohibited area as
described in this section does not commit a violation of this section of any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The person established the permanent residence or temporary
residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166
and 243.167, as they may be amended from time to time, or a successor statute,
prior to the effective date and adoption of this subchapter;
      (2)   The designated predatory offender was a minor when he or she
committed the offense and was not convicted as an adult;
      (3)   The person is a minor;
      (4)   The school, licensed daycare facility, religious facility or public
park within 2,000 feet of the person’s permanent residence or temporary
residence was opened after the person established the permanent residence or
temporary residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S.
§§ 243.166 and 243.167, as they may be amended from time to time, or a
successor statute;
      (5)   The residence is a property purchased, leased or contracted with
and licensed by the State Department of Corrections prior to the effective date
of this subchapter; and/or
      (6)   The designated predatory offender has been granted a risk level
reduction by the End-of-Confinement Review Committee, pursuant to M.S. §
244.052, subd. 3(i), as it may be amended from time to time, or a successor
statute.
(Prior Code, § 10.47) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 PROPERTY OWNERS RENTING TO DESIGNATED PREDATORY OFFENDERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a property owner to rent or lease real estate
to any designated predatory offender if the property is in the prohibited zone
established in §
130.03. If a property owner discovers or is informed that a tenant is a
designated predatory offender after a rental agreement is signed, a property
owner shall commence eviction proceedings against the designated offender and
take action to ensure that the designated predatory offender is not residing in
the exclusion zone.
   (B)   A property owner’s violation of this prohibition shall be punishable
as set forth in §
130.99.
(Prior Code, § 10.47) Penalty, see §
130.99
**** CANNABIS AND TOBACCO REGULATIONS ****
§ 130.35 CANNABIS USE.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CANNABIS FLOWER, CANNABIS PRODUCT, LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES and HEMP-
DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS. As defined in M.S. § 342.01 (enacted under Minnesota
Laws 2023, Chapter 63), as it may be amended from time to time, which include:
         CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves and stems of a
cannabis plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical
cannabis flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant
parts or hemp-derived consumer products.
         CANNABIS PRODUCT(S). Any of the following: (1) cannabis concentrate;
(2) a product infused with cannabinoids, including, but not limited to,
tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or (3) any other product that contains cannabis concentrate. CANNABIS
PRODUCT includes adult-use cannabis products, including, but not limited to,
edible cannabis products and medical cannabinoid products.
         HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCT. A product intended for human or animal
consumption, does not contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and (1)
contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or (2) contains hemp concentrate or
artificially derived cannabinoids in combination with other ingredients.
         LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. Any product that (1) is intended to be
eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans; (2) contains hemp concentrate or an
artificially derived cannabinoid, in combination with food ingredients; (3) is
not a drug; (4) consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams
of delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabidiol, 25 milligrams of
cannabigerol, or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
identified amounts; (5) does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5
milligrams of all other cannabinoids per serving; (6) does not contain an
artificially derived cannabinoid other than delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol; (7)
does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or cannabis flower;
and (8) is a type of product approved for sale by the Office of Cannabis
Management or is substantially similar to a product approved by that Office,
including but not limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages,
candy and baked goods.
      PUBLIC PLACE.
         (a)   Property owned, leased or controlled by a governmental unit
including city buildings and all the land thereon, city owned, leased or
controlled real property, city parking lots, parks, pathways and trails, golf
course, community center and city rights-of-way consisting of both the traveled
portion and the abutting boulevard, sidewalks and trails, and any city personal
property, such as motor vehicles, city equipment and the like.
         (b)   PUBLIC PLACE does not include:
            1.   A private residence, including the person’s curtilage or yard;
            2.   Private property not generally accessible to the public,
unless the person is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products on the property by the owner of the property; or
            3.   The premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit
on-site consumption.
         (c)   PARK, as used in this definition, shall include:
            1.   Any park, parkway, zoological or horticultural garden,
recreation open space, lake, river or other waters, golf course, swimming pool,
athletic field, trails and pathways;
            2.   Any city owned or leased land or water area above the ordinary
high-water mark, and all facilities thereon, established or operated as a park
by the city pursuant to its authority under state statutes; or
            3.   Any other area owned, improved, maintained, operated or
otherwise controlled by the city for recreation and natural resource
preservation purposes.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products,
lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products within a public
place.
(Prior Code, § 10.12) (Ord. 273, passed 9-11-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §§
130.20 to
130.24 shall be a misdemeanor. In addition, the city may enforce §§
130.20 to
130.24 by mandamus, injunction and any other appropriate remedy in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 10.47)
   (C)   A violation of §
130.35 is a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
(Ord. 272, passed 9-11-2023)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Use of bow and arrow
   
131.02   Fireworks
§ 131.01 USE OF BOW AND ARROW.
   It is unlawful for any person to shoot a bow and arrow or other similar
device within the city limits except in a physical education program in a
school supervised by a member of its faculty, a community wide supervised class
or event specifically authorized by the Chief of Police, a bow and arrow range
authorized by the Council, or on private property south of State Highway No.
10; provided the person has in his or her possession written permission to do
so, signed by an authorized representative of the private property owner.
(Prior Code, § 10.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The use, display, possession, discharge or sale of any fireworks not
expressly permitted by M.S. § 624.20, subd. 1(b), (c), as it may be amended
from time to time, is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   All use, display or discharge of those non-explosive, non-aerial
pyrotechnic entertainment devices only containing the limited amounts of
pyrotechnic chemical compositions described in and permitted by M.S. § 624.20,
subd. 1(b), (c), as it may be amended from time to time, hereinafter referred
to as “permitted consumer fireworks”, is strictly prohibited in:
      (1)   The area on, below, above or within or in close proximity to:
recreational areas, roadways, streets, highways, bicycle lanes, pedestrian
paths, sidewalks, rights-of-way, lakes, rivers, waterways and all other
property owned or leased by the city, the county in which the city is located,
the state or the federal government and located in whole or in part within the
city limits;
      (2)   Private property within the city limits that has conspicuously
posted a written sign or notice that no fireworks discharge is allowed;
      (3)   Within 300 feet of any consumer fireworks retail sales facility or
storage area that has posted a written sign or notice that no fireworks
discharge is allowed; and
      (4)   Any property, area, or structure that, by its physical condition or
the physical conditions in which it is set, would constitute a fire or personal
safety hazard.
   (C)   All other use, display or discharge of permitted consumer fireworks
must be conducted in a manner that minimizes the risk of fire or injury to
other persons or property.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
      
153.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Permit fees
   
150.03   Building permits and procedures
   
150.04   Certificate of survey, civil plans and detailed site plan requirements
   
150.05   Permits and special requirements for moving buildings
   
150.06   Mining permits
   
150.07   Floodplain management areas
   
150.08   Administrative permits
   
150.09   Underground utility construction
   
150.10   Driveway aprons in areas with sidewalks or pathways
   
150.11   Toilet installation required
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. The State Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner of
Administration Commissioner of Labor and Industry pursuant to M.S. Chapter
326B, including all of the amendments, rules and regulations established,
adopted and published from time to time by the State Commissioner of
Commissioner of Labor, through the Building Codes and Standards Units is
adopted by reference and as listed below. The State Building Code is adopted by
the city and made part of this city code as though fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Building Official. The application, administration and enforcement of
the code shall be in accordance with State Building Code. A state certified
Building Official must be appointed by the city to administrator the code in
accordance with M.S. § 326B.133, as it may be amended from time to time,
including plumbing plan review and inspections. The building code enforcement
agency of this city is the Building Official or his or her representatives.
   (C)   Plumbing permit administration, plan review and inspections.
      (1)   Compliance. All plumbing on private property within the city must
comply with the provisions of the State Building and Plumbing Code, being Minn.
Rules, Chapters 1305 and 4714, respectively, as they may be amended from time
to time, and this section.
      (2)   Plans and specifications. Prior to the installation of a system of
plumbing other than for a single-family dwelling, complete plans and
specifications, together with any additional information that the Building
Official may require, must be submitted and reviewed by the Building Official
or his or her designee prior to permits and installation. Construction cannot
proceed except in accordance with approved plans and specifications. Any
alteration, extension or repair of an existing system is subject to these same
requirements, unless waived by the Building Official in accordance with Minn.
Rules, part 1300.0215.
      (3)   Exceptions. Pursuant to M.S. § 326B.43, subd. 2(n), as it may be
amended from time to time, plumbing plans and specifications for the following
projects must be submitted to the State Department of Labor and Industry for a
full plan review:
         (a)   State-licensed facilities, as defined in M.S. § 326B.103, subd.
13, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (b)   Public buildings, as defined in M.S. § 326B.103, subd. 11, as it
may be amended from time to time; and
         (c)   Projects of a special nature for which Department review is
requested by either the municipality or the state.
      (4)   Inspections. New plumbing systems or parts of existing plumbing
systems that have been altered, extended or repaired shall be inspected, tested
and approved by the Building Official or his or her designee in accordance with
Minn. Rules, part 1300.0215 before the plumbing system is put into use. The
Building Official shall perform the final inspection and witness the test. The
Building Official shall approve the plumbing system if the system complies with
the requirements of this code, any permit requirements and the requirements of
any approved plans and specification. Plumbing system tests shall comply with
Minn. Rules, Chapter 4714.
      (5)   Covering of work. No building drainage or plumbing system or part
thereof shall be covered until it has been inspected, tested and approved as
herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 4.01) (Ord. 146, passed 2-8-2010; Ord. 271, passed 7-24-2023;
Ord. 296, passed 8-23-2025) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for permits under this chapter, which include a surcharge per M.S. §
326B.148, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be determined by the
Council and fixed by its resolution, a copy of which shall be in the office of
the City Administrator or City Clerk and uniformly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 4.02) (Ord. 146, passed 2-8-2010; Ord. 296, passed 8-23-2025)
§ 150.03 BUILDING PERMITS AND PROCEDURES.
   It is unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, improve, remove, convert or demolish any building or structure, or any
part or portion thereof, including, but not limited to, the plumbing,
electrical, ventilating, heating or air conditioning systems therein, or cause
the same to be done, without first obtaining a separate building permit from
the city for each building, structure or mechanical component.
    (A)   Exemptions from permit requirement. No building permit shall be
required for activities of the type set forth in the work exempt from permit
provisions of the State Building Code including Minn. Rules 1300.0120, as
amended from time to time.
   (B)   Application procedure. Application for a building permit shall be made
on forms furnished by the city, and the application shall be accompanied by the
following:
      (1)   Detailed drawings and specifications for all site, building and
utility preparation, drainage, construction and installation. The requirements
shall be established in the form of a certificate of survey as described in
this chapter;
      (2)   Other documentation and information requested by the city and
reasonably necessary for adequate review and evaluation of the proposed
activity for which the building permit is being requested; and
      (3)   The city reserves the right to deny building permits for specific
home styles based on the physical limitations of a given lot. This reservation
is made based on a limitation of drainage of the plat in general. In addition,
permits may not be granted based on limitations of sewer availability for a
specific style of home.
   (C)   Issuance. The Building Official shall examine or cause to be examined
applications for building permits within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application, or submitted construction document(s), does not conform to the
requirements of pertinent laws, the Building Official shall notify the
applicant in writing stating the necessary required revisions and reasons for
the changes. If the Building Official is satisfied that the proposed work
conforms to the requirements of the code and applicable laws and ordinances,
the Building Official shall issue the permit.
(Prior Code, § 4.03) (Ord. 75, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. 83, passed 1-24-2004;
Ord. 116, passed 11-25-2006; Ord. 216, passed 9-9-2019; Ord. 296, passed 8-23-
2025) Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Building Code adopted, see §
150.01
§ 150.04 CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY, CIVIL PLANS AND DETAILED SITE PLAN
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential requirements. All applications for residential building
permits specified in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) shall require a certificate of
survey, signed by a state licensed land surveyor, to be completed and submitted
with the application. The survey shall be reviewed by the City Engineer and
Zoning Administrator. Any changes required to the survey by the City Engineer
and/or Zoning Administrator will be related to the applicant in writing. If the
certificate of survey meets all requirements from applicable ordinances and the
City Engineer and Zoning Administrator, it shall be approved. All other
residential permit applications shall not require a certificate of survey
unless determined necessary by the Zoning Administrator, due to substantial
impacts and/or changes on drainage or topography, or due to property lines
being difficult to determine accurately. A detailed site plan, showing the
required information in division (C) below, must be submitted with all other
residential permit applications for:
      (1)   New primary residential structures; and
      (2)   New primary residential additions (only required if drainage and/or
topography is being substantially altered as determined by the Zoning
Administrator).
   (B)   Commercial/industrial requirements. All building permit applications
for commercial and industrial building permits, specified in divisions (B)(1)
and (B)(2) below shall require civil plans, completed by a state licensed civil
engineer, or a certificate of survey, signed by a state licensed land surveyor,
to be submitted with the applications. The civil plans or surveys shall be
reviewed by the City Engineer and Zoning Administrator. Any changes required to
the civil plans or survey by the City Engineer and/or Zoning Administrator will
be relayed to the applicant in writing. If the civil plans or survey meets all
requirements from applicable ordinances and the City Engineer and Zoning
Administrator, it shall be approved. All other commercial and industrial permit
applications shall not require a certificate of survey unless determined
necessary by the Zoning Administrator, due to substantial impacts and/or
changes on drainage and topography, or due to property lines being difficult to
determine accurately. A detailed site plan, showing the required information in
division (C) below, must be submitted with all other commercial and industrial
permit applications for:
      (1)   New primary commercial/industrial structures; and
      (2)   New primary commercial/industrial additions (only if drainage and/
or topography is being substantially altered as determined by the Zoning
Administrator).
   (C)   Detailed site plan submittal requirements. The following are the
requirements for a detailed site plan:
      (1)   Address;
      (2)   Scale of drawing;
      (3)   North arrow;
      (4)   Dimensions of all lot lines and any easements of record; and
      (5)   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed structures,
including any proposed parking pads/driveways.
   (D)   Grading permits. A grading permit is required to be obtained for all
commercial and industrial projects where site drainage and/or topography are
being substantially changed, as determined by the City Engineer. Grading
permits shall be completed on forms provided by the city and shall include all
required documentation and submittals.
   (E)   Certificate of survey and civil plan drawing requirements. All
registered certificate of surveys and civil plans shall meet the following
requirements and show the following information:
      (1)   All surveys must be certified by a state registered land surveyor.
Civil Engineers may certify topographic surveys;
      (2)   Scale of drawing and north arrow;
      (3)   Dimensions of all lot lines and all easements of record must be
clearly shown;
      (4)   Location of all utilities;
      (5)   Names of all abutting streets must be clearly shown;
      (6)   Location of all existing and proposed structures;
      (7)   Outside dimensions of existing and proposed structures, including,
but not limited to, decks, porches and stairways, must be clearly shown on the
survey. The outside dimensions of the proposed structure shall be staked on the
lot for the building official to inspect. The maintenance of these stakes, once
established by the surveyor, shall be the responsibility of the building permit
applicant and/or property owner;
      (8)   Location of stakes established by the surveyor along each side lot
line shall be clearly shown. The maintenance of these stakes, once established
by the surveyor shall be the responsibility of the building permit applicant
and/or property owner;
      (9)   Grade elevations of the following points:
         (a)   Each lot corner (both existing and proposed elevations);
         (b)   Center of existing or proposed street at each lot line extended
and at the driveway;
         (c)   Proposed grades around buildings, the driveway, retaining walls
and walkout, if included; and
         (d)   Proposed floor elevations; basement, top of foundation and
garage. Such elevations may be based on assumed data but shall be tied by the
surveyor to a specified benchmark, if there is a known N.G.V.D. within a one-
half mile distance. In either case, a benchmark description shall be given on
the drawing.
      (10)   The proposed disposal of drainage and surface water, indicating
direction of surface water drainage by arrows;
      (11)   The garage must be noted along with the driveway position, width
and percent slope;
      (12)   Any existing wetlands, ponds, streams and lakes shall be clearly
shown on the survey. For ponds and lakes, the normal water level and the 100-
year flood elevation must be shown;
      (13)   Location of sewer and water connections must be clearly identified
on the survey.
         (a)   If stubs for city water and sewer are available at the lot, the
location, size and elevation shall be shown on the survey.
         (b)   If stubs are not available at the lot, should survey to
determine elevation of inverts to nearest manholes up and down stream of the
proposed building and show proposed location on the survey.
         (c)   In the case of private septic systems and wells, location of
each shall be shown on the plan as approximate and septic system drain field
laid out on the plan with proposed elevations.
      (14)   Any other information deemed necessary by the City Engineer and
Zoning Administrator to ensure accurate review and compliance with applicable
codes and statutes; and
      (15)   The Zoning Administrator may exempt a survey from certain
requirements under this section should it be determined that they are not
applicable for review and accurate decision.
   (F)   Post construction verification.
      (1)   Generally. For residential permit applications, where a certificate
of survey is required, after construction activity has occurred, an as-built
survey must be presented identifying locations of structures shown on the site
plan. The survey shall also verify elevations on the site to demonstrate proper
drainage of the lot has been achieved in accordance with the specific lot site
requirements and original submitted certificate of survey. The final approval
or certificate of occupancy will be withheld until such verification is given
and the City Engineer and Zoning Administrator have reviewed and approved said
survey. For commercial and industrial permit applications where civil plans or
surveys are required, an as-built survey, meeting the requirements above, or a
signed affidavit from the contractor certifying that the project was installed
to the approved civil plans or survey, is required.
      (2)   Grading escrow option for issuance of certificate of occupancy.
         (a)   For transactions occurring between the time period of November 1
through April 1 or in the event that temporary conditions (i.e., snow) exist on
a building site such that grading cannot be completed, the applicant may choose
to provide a grading escrow to receive a certificate of occupancy. The escrow
shall be provided to the city in the amount of $3,000 per lot. The certificate
of occupancy shall only be issued in the event that all other relevant
permitting conditions have been met.
         (b)   It is the duty of all property owners to complete grading within
eight months of issuance of the certificate of occupancy. The escrow amount
will be held in escrow until such a time that grading is completed. Application
shall be made to the city to release the escrow subject to a final grading
inspection compliant with this division (F). Fifty dollars of the original
$3,000 will be retained by the city for administration of the program.
(Prior Code, § 4.031) (Ord. 75, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. 216, passed 9-9-2019;
Ord. 296, passed 8-23-2025)
§ 150.05 PERMITS AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDING. Any structure that, when loaded onto a trailer or otherwise
made capable of movement upon the roads, exceeds the size or weight
restrictions contained in M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to
time, for vehicles operating on roads or streets of this state without a
special permit.
      CITY STREET. A public thoroughfare in the city for vehicular traffic
which is not a state trunk highway, county state aid highway or county road.
      COMBINED MOVING PERMIT. A moving permit to move a building on both a
street and a highway.
      HIGHWAY. A public thoroughfare within the city for vehicular traffic
which is a state trunk highway, county state aid highway or county road.
      HIGHWAY MOVING PERMIT. A moving permit to move a building on a highway
for which a fee is charged which does not include route approval, but does
include regulation of activities which do not involve the use of the highway;
which activities include, but are not limited to, repairs or alterations to a
municipal utility required by reason of the movement.
      MOVING PERMIT. A document allowing the use of a street or highway for the
purpose of moving a building; provided, however, that the permitted use shall
be in compliance with all state laws regarding the permits, including, but not
limited to, M.S. §§ 160.26, 169.80, 169.81 and 169.86, all as amended or
renumbered.
      STREET MOVING PERMIT. A moving permit to move a building on a street for
which a fee is charged which does include route approval, together with use of
the street and other procedures including, but not limited to, repairs or
alterations to a municipal utility required by reason of the movement.
   (B)   Application. The application for a moving permit shall state the
dimensions, weight and approximate loaded height of the building proposed to be
moved, the places from which and to which it is to be moved, the route to be
followed, the dates and times of moving and parking, the name and address of
the mover, and the municipal utility and public property repairs or alterations
that will be required by reason of the movement. In the case of a street moving
permit or combined moving permit, the application shall also state the size and
weight of the building proposed to be moved and the street alterations or
repairs that will be required by reason of the movement.
   (C)   Permit and fee. 
      (1)   The moving permit shall state date or dates of moving, hours,
routing, movement and parking.
      (2)   Moving permits shall be issued only for moving buildings by
building movers licensed by the state, except that a moving permit may be
issued to a person moving his or her own building, or a person moving a
building which does not exceed 16 feet in width, 20 feet in length, or 14 feet
in loaded height.
      (3)   Fees to be charged shall be separate for each of the following:
         (a)   A moving permit fee to cover use of streets and route approval;
and
         (b)   A fee equal to the anticipated amount required to compensate the
city for any municipal utility and public property repairs or alterations
occasioned by the movement.
      (4)   All moving permit fees shall be paid in advance of issuance.
   (D)   Building permit and code compliance. Before any building is moved from
one location to another within the city, or from a point of origin outside the
city to a destination within the city, regardless of the route of movement, it
shall be inspected and a building permit shall have been issued for at least
the work necessary to bring it into full compliance with the State Building
Code.
   (E)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to move a building on any street
without a moving permit from the city.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to move a building on any highway
without a highway moving permit.
      (3)   It is unlawful to move any building if the point of origin or
destination (or both) is within the city, without having paid in full all real
and personal property taxes, special assessments and municipal utility charges
due on the premises of origin and filing written proof of the payment with the
city.
(Prior Code, § 4.04) (Ord. 216, passed 9-9-2019; Ord. 296, passed 8-23-2025)
Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Building Code adopted, see §
150.01
§ 150.06 MINING PERMITS.
   It is unlawful for any person to mine sand, gravel or other materials or
minerals, or to operate an excavation operation of any type without first
obtaining a mining permit from the city. Application for the permit shall be
made on forms that have been furnished by the city and contain the information
as may be required by the forms. The information shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission and a recommendation submitted to the Council. The Council
shall hold a public hearing and shall approve or deny the plan. If approved,
the mining permit shall be deemed to have been approved based on compliance
with the plan.
(Prior Code, § 4.05) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 296, passed 8-23-2025)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AREAS.
   The following requirements shall be adhered to when building in a flood-
prone area. When the Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator has not
defined the special flood hazard areas within a community, has not provided
water surface elevation data, and has not provided sufficient data to identify
the floodway area, but the community has indicated the presence of the hazards
by submitting an application to participate in the program, the community
shall:
   (A)   Require permits for all proposed construction or other development in
the community, including the placement of manufactured homes, so that it may
determine whether the construction or other development is proposed within
flood-prone areas;
   (B)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have
been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required
by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344;
   (C)   Review all permit applications to determine whether proposed building
sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building site is in
a flood-prone area, all new construction and substantial improvements shall:
      (1)   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages; and
      (4)   Be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   (D)   Review subdivision proposals and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine whether the
proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a subdivision proposal or
other proposed new development is in a flood-prone area, any of the proposals
shall be reviewed to assure that:
      (1)   All proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage
within the flood-prone area;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (E)   Require within flood-prone areas new and replacement water supply
systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems; and
   (F)   Require within flood-prone areas:
      (1)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems to be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters; and
      (2)   On-site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 4.06) (Ord. 35, passed 11-17-1998; Ord. 296, passed 8-23-2025)
§ 150.08 ADMINISTRATIVE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations and
procedures for the processing and consideration of activities allowed by
administrative permit, and of matters requiring the approval of the Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee, as defined by the Unified Development
Ordinance, with the intent of protecting public health, safety and welfare of
the city.
   (B)   Applications qualifying for administrative review. The applications
which shall be approved by administrative permit include any work exempted from
State Building Code, as regulated in said statutory rules, and any other
permits required in the city code or listed in the city fee schedule.
Administrative permits include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Fences seven feet high and under;
      (2)   Accessory structures including decks, retaining walls under four
feet in height, other detached or attached accessory structure;
      (3)   Driveway and parking pads; or
      (4)   Grading permits (outside of mining permits.
   (C)   Procedure. The procedure for filing administrative permits is outlined
below.
       (1)   Application for an administrative permit shall be filed by the
property owner or legally authorized representative of the property owner with
the Zoning Administrator or designee on forms provided by the city.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in the
city fee schedule, as amended.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall review the application
and related materials and shall determine whether the proposal is in compliance
with all applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances and applicable
specific regulations as set forth in this section. The Zoning Administrator or
designee shall notify the applicant in writing of an incomplete application
within 15 business days of the date of submittal. The request shall be
considered as being officially submitted when all of the information
requirements are deemed to be complete by the Zoning Administrator. The formal
review will not commence until the time as the application is complete. Payment
for the administrative permit is due at the time the permit is issued.
      (4)   A permit shall be issued to the applicant when a determination of
compliance has been made. Specific conditions to assure compliance with
applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinance and standards of this section
shall be attached to the permit.
      (5)   Determination of non-compliance with applicable codes, ordinances
and the standards in this division (C) shall be communicated to the applicant
in writing.
      (6)   Unresolved disputes as to administrative application of the
requirements of this division (C) shall be subject to the Board of Adjustments
as regulated in the Unified Development Ordinance with final resolution being
made by the City Council for said appeals.
   (D)   Application requirement. The information required for all
administrative permits shall include:
      (1)   A complete application form;
      (2)   Payment of a non-refundable filing fee as set forth by City Council
resolution;
      (3)   A concise statement describing the proposed use, structure or
activity, and other pertinent information required by the Zoning Administrator
to fully evaluate the application;
      (4)   A copy a certificate of survey, civil plans, grading plans or
detailed site plan as required in §
150.04 or as otherwise deemed necessary by the City Engineer and/or Zoning
Administrator;
      (5)   In cases where structures are proposed, the lot corners and
proposed structure locations shall be staked in the field; and
      (6)   An accurate floor plan, when in the judgment of the Zoning
Administrator, such a plan is necessary to properly evaluate the location of
the structure and the effectiveness of available entrances and exits.
   (E)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of applications and
administrative permits.
      (2)   A copy of all administrative permits shall be forwarded to
appropriate staff as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator may add conditions to an administrative
permit approval to ensure that it meets all code requirements.
      (4)   Should the submitted permit application and associated materials
meet the requirements under code and any conditions or required revisions, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall approve
of said permit.
      (5)   Enforcement of the provisions of this division (E) shall be in
accordance with this section. Violation of an issued permit or of the
provisions of this section also shall be grounds for denial of future permit
applications, and the city will take all actions necessary to enforce all
applicable regulations.
   (F)   Inspection. The city reserves the right, upon issuing any
administrative permit, to inspect the premises to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this section or any conditions additionally imposed.
(Prior Code, § 4.07) (Ord. 130, passed 8-23-2008; Ord. 149, passed 6-28-2010;
Ord. 216, passed 9-9-2019; Ord. 296, passed 8-23-2025) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 UNDERGROUND UTILITY CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Underground construction required. 
      (1)   All utility lines hereafter installed, constructed or otherwise
placed within the city for electric, telephone, television cable or other
similar services to serve residential, commercial and industrial customers in
newly platted areas, and which utilize metallic conductors to carry electric
current, whether owned, installed or constructed by the supplier, consumer or
any party, shall be installed and placed underground; except that, above ground
placement, construction, modification or replacement of meters, gauges,
transformers, street lighting and service connection pedestals shall be
allowed. The requirements of this section shall apply equally outside of the
corporate limits of the city coincident with city jurisdiction of platting,
subdivision regulation or comprehensive planning as may now or in the future be
allowed by law. All companies installing and operating lines, such as those
described herein, shall be referred to as UTILITY COMPANIES for purposes of
this section. It is unlawful for any person to make any excavation for the
construction of a utility installation without first having obtained permission
from the city.
      (2)   All utility lines hereafter installed, constructed or otherwise
placed within the city rights-of-way for electric, telephone, television cable
or other similar services shall be installed in conduits of a size sufficient
to provide for 50% additional reserve capacity.
   (B)   Exceptions to application. The following exceptions to the strict
applicability of this section shall be allowed upon the conditions stated.
      (1)   Transmission lines. Above ground placement, construction,
modification or replacement of those lines commonly referred to as “high
voltage transmission lines” upon which the conductor’s normal operating voltage
equals or exceeds 23,000 volts (phase to phase) shall be allowed; provided,
however, that 60 days prior to commencement of construction of such a project,
the city shall be furnished notice of the proposed project and, upon request,
the utility company involved shall furnish any relevant information regarding
the project to the city. This section shall not be construed as waiving the
requirements of any other ordinance or regulation of the city as the same may
apply to any proposed project.
      (2)   Technical and economic feasibility. Above ground placement,
construction, modification or replacement of lines shall be allowed in
residential, commercial and industrial areas where the Council, following
consideration and recommendation by the Planning Commission, finds that:
         (a)   Underground placement would place an undue financial burden upon
the landowner or the utility company or deprive the landowner of the
preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights; or
         (b)   Underground placement is impractical or not technically feasible
due to topographical, subsoil or other existing conditions which adversely
affect underground utility placement.
      (3)   Temporary service. Above ground placement of temporary service
lines shall only be allowed:
         (a)   During the new construction of any project for a period not to
exceed 24 months;
         (b)   During any emergency to safeguard lives or property within the
city; and
         (c)   For a period of not more than seven months when soil conditions
make excavation impractical.
   (C)   Repair and maintenance of existing installations. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent repair, maintenance, replacement or
modification of existing overhead utility lines.
   (D)   Developer responsibility. All owners, platters or developers are
responsible for complying with the requirements of this section, and prior to
the final approval of any plat or development plan, shall submit to the
Planning Commission written instruments from the appropriate utility companies
showing that all necessary arrangements with the companies for installation of
the utilities have been made.
   (E)   Placement.
      (1)   All utility lines shall be placed within appropriate easements or
dedicated public ways so as to cause minimum conflict with other underground
services. Whenever feasible, all utilities shall be placed within the same
trench.
      (2)   All utility companies shall submit annually to the Building
Inspector current maps revealing locations of underground installations,
whether the installations were installed prior to the effective date of this
section or hereafter.
(Prior Code, § 4.10) (Ord. 47, passed 7-17-2000; Ord. 296, passed 8-23-2025)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10 DRIVEWAY APRONS IN AREAS WITH SIDEWALKS OR PATHWAYS.
   All areas where sidewalks or pathways exist are required to have concrete
driveway aprons in those areas with concrete sidewalks, or bituminous aprons in
those areas with bituminous sidewalks or pathways. All property owners are
responsible for installation of the correct driveway apron between a roadway
and/or curb line and the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 4.11) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 47, passed 7-17-2000; Ord.
296, passed 8-23-2025)
§ 150.11 TOILET INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   It is the duty of every owner or occupant of any property within the city
having a dwelling house or business building situated thereon, which property
is abutting a street in which there are city water and sewer mains, to install
a toilet in the dwelling or business building and make connection thereof with
water and sewer mains. The city shall serve written notice upon the owner or
occupant requiring the installation of toilet facilities upon premises
described in the notice, and connection thereof with the sewer and water mains,
all of which shall be done within 30 days after service of the written notice.
Whenever any owner or occupant shall default in compliance with the written
notice, the Council may, by resolution, direct that a toilet be installed and
connection made with the water and sewer mains and that the actual cost of the
installation be paid in the first instance out of the General Revenue Fund, and
assessed against the property so benefitted. After the installation and
connection is completed by order of the Council, the city shall serve a written
notice of intention to make an assessment therefor. If the assessment is not
paid within ten days, the city shall certify the amount thereof to the County
Auditor in the same manner as with other special assessments, provided that the
Council may, by resolution, provide that the assessment be spread over a term
of five years upon written request by the owner of the property. For purposes
of this section, OCCUPANT shall include any occupant having attained the age
majority, and shall also include a minor occupant if the minor is the owner or
lessee of, or otherwise has legal control over, the premises.
(Prior Code, § 10.02) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   A person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when that person performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, and upon conviction thereof, the violation shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.99) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 296, passed 8-23-2025)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Application
   
151.03   Scope and orders of officers
   
151.04   Traffic and parking control on streets
   
151.05   Construction and reconstruction of roadway surfacing, sidewalk, curb
and gutter
   
151.06   Obstructions in streets
   
151.07   Street openings or excavations
   
151.08   Regulation of grass, weeds and trees
   
151.09   Load limits
   
151.10   Requirement of sewer and water main service lateral installation
   
151.11   Private use of city owned streets and parking lots
   
151.12   Curb and gutter, street and sidewalk painting or coloring
   
151.13   Motorized vehicles prohibited on sidewalks
   
151.14   Individual and gang mail receptacles
   
151.15   Sidewalk snow and ice removal
   
151.16   Private street maintenance and turn back
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise defined in the city code, or where the context clearly
indicates a contrary intent, the words and terms defined in M.S. Chapter 169,
as it may be amended from time to time, shall be applicable to this chapter and
Title VII.
(Prior Code, § 7.01)
§ 151.02 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter and Title VII are applicable to the drivers
of all vehicles and animals upon streets, including, but not limited to, those
owned or operated by the United States, the state, or any county, town, city,
district or other political subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 7.02)
§ 151.03 SCOPE AND ORDERS OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter and Title VII relate exclusively
to the streets, alleys and private roads in the city, and the operation and
parking of vehicles refer exclusively to the operation and parking of vehicles
upon the streets, alleys and private roads.
   (B)   Orders of an officer. It is a misdemeanor for any person to willfully
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any police or
peace officer invested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7.03) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 TRAFFIC AND PARKING CONTROL ON STREETS.
   (A)   Council action. No device, sign or signal shall be erected or
maintained for traffic or parking control unless the Council shall first have
approved and directed the same, except as otherwise provided in this section;
provided, that when traffic and parking control is marked or sign posted, the
marking or sign posting shall attest to Council action thereon.
   (B)   Temporary restrictions. The city may temporarily restrict traffic or
parking for any private, public or experimental purpose. It is the duty of the
Chief of Police or Director of Public Works to so restrict traffic or parking
when a hazardous condition arises or is observed.
   (C)   Traffic restrictions and prohibitions. It is a misdemeanor for any
person to drive a vehicle contrary to lane restrictions or prohibitions painted
on any street, or contrary to sign posted, fenced or barricaded restrictions or
prohibitions.
   (D)   Parking restrictions and prohibitions. It is unlawful for any person
to park a vehicle, except an emergency vehicle, contrary to lane restrictions
or prohibitions painted on any curb, or contrary to sign posted, fenced or
barricaded restrictions or prohibitions.
   (E)   Damaging or moving markings. It is a misdemeanor for any person to
deface, mar, damage, move, remove or in any way tamper with any structure,
work, material, equipment, tools, sign, signal, barricade, fence, painting or
appurtenance in any street unless the person has written permission from the
city or is an agent, employee or contractor for the city, or other authority
having jurisdiction over a particular street, and acting within the authority
or scope of a contract with the city or the other authority.
(Prior Code, § 7.04) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 CONSTRUCTION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF ROADWAY SURFACING, SIDEWALK, CURB
AND GUTTER.
   (A)   Methods of procedure.
      (1)   Abutting or affected property owners may contract for, construct or
reconstruct roadway surfacing, sidewalk or curb and gutter in accordance with
this section if advance payment is made therefor or arrangements for payment
considered adequate by the city are completed in advance.
      (2)   With or without petition by the methods set forth in the Local
Improvement Code under M.S. Chapter 429, as the same may from time to time be
amended.
   (B)   Permit required. It is a misdemeanor to construct or reconstruct a
sidewalk, curb and gutter, roadway surfacing or driveway in any street or other
public property in the city without a permit in writing from the City
Administrator. Application for the permit shall be made on forms approved and
provided by the city and shall sufficiently describe the contemplated
improvements, the contemplated date of beginning of work, and the length of
time required to complete the same, provided, that no permit shall be required
for any improvement ordered by the Council. All applications shall be referred
by the City Administrator to the City Engineer and no permit shall be issued
until approval has been received from the City Engineer. All applications shall
contain an agreement by the applicant to be bound by this chapter, and shall
contain plans and specifications consistent with the provisions of this chapter
and good engineering practices. A permit from the city shall not relieve the
holder from liability for injury to the person or property of another caused
during the performance of the improvements.
   (C)   Specifications and standards. All construction and reconstruction of
roadway surfacing, sidewalk and curb and gutter improvements, including curb
cuts, shall be performed in strict accordance with specifications and standards
on file in the office of the City Administrator and open to inspection and
copying there. The specifications and standards may be amended from time to
time by the city, but shall be uniformly enforced.
   (D)   Inspection. The City Engineer shall inspect the improvements as deemed
necessary or advisable. Any work not done according to the applicable
specifications and standards shall be removed and corrected at the expense of
the permit holder. Any work done hereunder may be stopped by the City
Administrator if found to be unsatisfactory or not in accordance with the
specifications and standards, but this shall not place a continuing burden upon
the city to inspect or supervise the work.
(Prior Code, § 7.05) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS.
   (A)   Obstructions. It is a misdemeanor for any person to place, deposit,
display or offer for sale, any fence, goods or other obstructions upon, over,
across or under any street without first having obtained a written permit from
the Council, and then only in strict compliance with the terms and conditions
of the permit, and by employing precautionary measures for the protection of
the public. For purposes of this section, the definition of an OBSTRUCTION
shall include, but not be limited to, an electrical cord or device of any kind.
   (B)   Fires. It is a misdemeanor for any person to build or maintain a fire
upon a street.
   (C)   Dumping in streets. It is a misdemeanor for any person to throw or
deposit in any street any nails, dirt, glass or glassware, cans, discarded
cloth or clothing, metal scraps, garbage, leaves, grass or tree limbs, paper or
paper products, shreds or rubbish, oil, grease or other petroleum products, or
to empty any water containing salt or other injurious chemical thereon. It is a
violation of this section to haul any material, inadequately enclosed or
covered, thereby permitting the same to fall upon streets. It is also a
violation of this section to place or store any building materials or waste
resulting from building construction or demolition on any street without first
having obtained a written permit from the Council.
   (D)   Signs and other structures. It is a misdemeanor for any person to
place or maintain a sign, advertisement or other structure in any street
without first having obtained a written permit from the Council. In a district
zoned for commercial or industrial enterprises, special permission allowing an
applicant to erect and maintain temporary signs overhanging the street may be
granted upon the terms and conditions as may be set forth in the zoning or
construction provisions of the city code.
   (E)   Placing snow or ice in a roadway or on a sidewalk.
      (1)   It is a misdemeanor for any person, not acting under a specific
contract with the city or without special permission from the City
Administrator, to remove snow or ice from private property and place the same
in any public roadway or sidewalk.
      (2)   Where permission to place snow or ice on a public roadway or
sidewalk is granted by the City Administrator, the person to whom the
permission is granted shall be initially responsible for payment of all direct
or indirect costs of removing the snow or ice from the street or sidewalk. If
the costs are not paid to the city, the city shall collect the costs by civil
action or assessment against the benefitted property as any other special
assessment.
   (F)   Continuing violation. Each day that a person is in violation of this
section shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
   (G)   Condition. Before granting any permit under any of the provisions of
this section, the Council may impose the insurance or bonding conditions
thereon as it, considering the possible harm to public or private property or
to persons, deems proper for safeguarding the persons and property. The
insurance or bond shall also indemnify the city from any suit, action or cause
of action arising out of the permit holder’s conduct.
(Prior Code, § 7.06) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 STREET OPENINGS OR EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful act. It is a misdemeanor for any person, except (1) a city
employee acting within the course and scope of his or her employment, (2) a
contractor acting within the course and scope of a contract with the city, or
(3) a franchisee acting within the course and scope of its franchise from the
city, to make any excavation, opening or tunnel in, over, across or under a
street or other public property without first having obtained a permit from the
City Administrator as herein provided. Provided, however, that a franchisee
shall give the city 24 hours’ notice prior to commencing any work on streets or
other public property.
   (B)   Application. Application for a permit to make a street excavation
shall set forth the name and address of the applicant, the place, purpose and
size of the excavation, and other information as may be required by the City
Administrator for investigation hereinafter provided for, and shall be filed
with the City Administrator.
   (C)   Estimate and payment of estimated costs. Upon receipt of the
application, the City Administrator shall cause an estimate to be made as to
the costs of repairing the excavation, such as backfilling, compacting,
resurfacing and replacement, and to determine the permit conditions as to the
time of commencement of work, manner of procedure and time limitation upon the
excavation. The foregoing estimated costs shall include permanent and temporary
repairs due to weather or other conditions, as well as the costs incurred by
the city in preparing the estimate. Payment of the estimated costs must be made
before the permit will be issued.
   (D)   Protection of the city and the public.
      (1)   Non-completion or abandonment. Work shall progress expeditiously to
completion in accordance with any time limitation placed thereon by the city so
as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience to the public. In the event that work is
not performed in accordance therewith, or shall cease or be abandoned without
due cause, the city may, after six hours notice in writing to the holder of the
permit of its intention to do so, correct the work, fill the excavation and
repair the public property, and the cost thereof shall be paid by the permit
holder.
      (2)   Insurance. Prior to commencement of the work described in the
application, the applicant shall furnish the city satisfactory written evidence
that the applicant will keep in effect public liability insurance of not less
than $500,000 for any person, $500,000 for any occurrence and property damage
insurance of not less than $25,000, issued by an insurance company authorized
to do business in the state, and on which the city is named as a co-insured.
      (3)   Indemnification. Before issuance of a permit, the applicant shall,
in writing, agree to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any liability
for injury or damage arising out of the action of the applicant in performance
of the work, or any expense whatsoever incurred by the city incident to a claim
or action brought or commenced by any person arising therefrom.
   (E)   Issuance of permit. The City Administrator shall issue the permit
after:
      (1)   Completion of the investigation;
      (2)   Determination of all estimated costs as aforesaid;
      (3)   Agreement by the applicant to the conditions of time and manner as
aforesaid;
      (4)   Agreement in writing by the applicant to pay all actual cost of
repairs over and above the estimate; and
      (5)   Agreement in writing by the applicant to be bound by all of the
provisions of this section. No permit shall be issued until the applicant has
paid all of the foregoing together with the investigation, inspection and
permit fees as are fixed and determined by resolution of the Council.
   (F)   Repairs. All temporary and permanent repairs, including backfilling,
compacting and resurfacing shall be made, or contracted for, by the city in a
manner prescribed by the City Administrator and an accurate account of costs
thereof shall be kept.
   (G)   Cost adjustment. Within 60 days following completion of the permanent
repairs, the City Administrator shall determine and compare the actual costs of
repairs with the estimated costs paid to the city pursuant to division (C)
above, furnish to the permit holder an itemized statement thereof, and claim
additional payment from, or make refund (without interest) to, the permit
holder, as the case may be.
   (H)   Alternate method of charging. In lieu of the above provisions relating
to cost and cost adjustment for street openings, the city may charge on the
basis of surface square feet removed, excavated cubic feet, or a combination of
surface square feet and excavated cubic feet, on an established unit price
uniformly charged.
(Prior Code, § 7.07) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 REGULATION OF GRASS, WEEDS AND TREES.
   (A)   City to control tree planting. The city shall have control and
supervision of planting shrubs and trees upon, or overhanging, all streets or
other public property. The city may establish and enforce uniform standards
relating to the kinds and types of trees to be planted and the placement
thereof. The standards shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Administrator and may be revised from time to time by action of the Council
upon the recommendation of the City Administrator.
   (B)   Permit required. It is a misdemeanor for any person to plant, spray,
trim or remove trees or shrubs which are upon city property, including rights-
of-way, without first procuring from the city a permit to do so.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a person may trim that portion of a tree or
shrub beginning at the level of the ground and extending six feet upward, where
the tree or shrub is located within the city right-of-way.
   (C)   Duty of property owners to cut grass and weeds from city right-of-way.
Every owner of property abutting any public street shall cause the grass and
weeds to be cut from the area beginning at the legal line of the property
nearest to the street and continuing to the nearest boundary of the street. If
the grass or weeds in such a place attain a height in excess of eight inches,
it shall be prima facie evidence of a failure to comply with this section.
   (D)   City may order work done. The city may, in cases of failure to comply
with this subchapter, and after notice to the property owner, perform the work
with employees of the city, keeping an accurate account of the cost thereof for
each lot, piece or parcel of land abutting upon the street. After the work is
completed, the city shall provide each affected landowner a statement setting
forth the charges incurred by the city and requesting immediate payment for the
same. If the payment is not received by the City Clerk within ten days after
the request is made, the city shall assess the charges against the affected
parcel or parcels of property.
   (E)   Assessment.
      (1)   Calculation. At any time after the expense of the work done or to
be done is calculated, and the period for payment set forth in § 92.28 has
expired, the Council shall determine by resolution the amount of the total
expense which will be assessed against the affected property, and if more than
one property is involved, the Clerk shall calculate the amount to be assessed
against each parcel of affected property.
      (2)   Notice. The Clerk shall give notice that the Council will meet to
consider the assessment. The notice shall be published in the city’s legal
newspaper at least once and sent by United States mail to the owner of each
parcel of affected property no less than two weeks prior to the meeting. The
notice shall set forth the following:
         (a)   The date, time and place of the hearing, and that the Council
may adopt the proposed assessment at the hearing;
         (b)   The work performed or to be performed, the property or
properties proposed to be assessed, the amount of the total proposed
assessment, the amount of proposed assessment for each affected property and
that the proposed assessment roll is on file with the Clerk;
         (c)   That written or oral objections to the assessment will be
considered, and no appeal as to the amount of the assessment may be taken
unless a written objection signed by the affected property owner is filed with
the Clerk prior to the Council hearing or presented to the Council at the
hearing. The property owner may appeal the assessment to the District Court by
serving notice of the appeal upon the Mayor or Clerk with 30 days after the
adoption of the assessment and by filing the notice with the District Court
within ten days after service upon the Mayor or Clerk; and
         (d)   With respect to payment of the assessment:
            1.   The property owner has the right to prepay the entire
assessment to the Clerk;
            2.   The time within which prepayment must be made to avoid the
assessment of interest;
            3.   The rate of interest to be accrued if the assessment is not
prepaid within that time period; and
            4.   That partial prepayment of the assessment is not authorized
under the city code.
      (3)   Adoption. At the hearing on the assessment, the Council shall hear
and pass upon all oral or written objections to the proposed assessment. The
amount of the assessment determined by the Council shall become a part of the
adopted assessment roll. If the adopted assessment differs from the proposed
assessment, the Clerk must notify the affected property owner or owners of the
changes adopted by the Council. The assessment, with accruing interest at a
rate determined by the resolution, shall be a lien upon all property included
therein from the date of the resolution adopting the assessment. After
adoption, the Clerk shall provide the assessment to the county auditor, either
by transmitting a certified duplicate thereof to the auditor, or by including
the assessment with all assessment rolls filed in the Clerk’s office and
certifying annually, on or before November 30 of each year, the assessments on
each parcel of property within the city.
      (4)   Payment. The affected property owner may, at any time prior to the
certification by the Clerk of the assessment to the County Auditor, pay the
entire assessment, with interest accrued to the date of the payment, to the
Clerk. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no interest shall be charged if the
entire assessment is paid within 30 days from the adoption thereof by the
Council. The assessment may, at the discretion of the Council, provide for
payment through a single installment or up to ten equal annual installments.
(Prior Code, § 7.08) (Ord. 48, passed 9-9-2000; Ord. 257, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 151.09 LOAD LIMITS.
   The city, upon the recommendation of the City Engineer, may from time to
time impose load limits upon vehicular traffic on any public street or portion
thereof. The limits shall be clearly and legibly sign posted on all streets or
portions of streets for which a load limits apply. It is a misdemeanor for any
person to operate a vehicle on any street in violation of the limitation so
posted.
(Prior Code, § 7.09)
§ 151.10 REQUIREMENT OF SEWER AND WATER MAIN SERVICE LATERAL INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Requirement of sewer and water laterals. No petition for the
improvement of a street shall be considered by the Council if the petition
contemplates constructing therein any part of a pavement or stabilized base, or
curb and gutter, unless all sewer and water main installations shall have been
made therein, including the installation of service laterals to the curb, if
the area along the street will be served by the utilities installed in the
street.
   (B)   Sewer system service and water main service laterals. No sewer system
may be constructed or extended unless service laterals to platted lots and
frontage facing thereon are extended simultaneously with construction of mains.
   (C)   Waiver. Upon the notice and hearing as the Council may deem necessary
or proper, the Council may waive the requirements of this section if it finds
the effects thereof are unnecessarily burdensome.
(Prior Code, § 7.10)
§ 151.11 PRIVATE USE OF CITY OWNED STREETS AND PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Authority, permission and procedure. Upon an application duly made to
the city and reviewed and recommended by the city, the Council may, in its
discretion, grant special permission whereby city owned on street parking,
parking lots, ramps or public sidewalks may be temporarily or permanently
dedicated to private use (including, but not limited to, establishment of
private or “leased” parking, “loading zones”, or benches) at the places, on the
terms and for consideration as the Council may deem just and equitable. In
establishing the amount of the consideration to be paid to the city, the
Council shall consider the amount of city owned property to be dedicated, the
location thereof, the public inconvenience caused by the dedication, and the
likely harm to persons or property. Upon complaint of any aggrieved person by
reason of any specific special permission or dedication so granted, the Council
shall at its next regular meeting after receipt of the complaint, set a hearing
thereon to be held no earlier than ten days after notice of the hearing has
been both published and served by United States mail upon the applicant and the
complainant. After the hearing, the Council shall by resolution decide whether
to terminate, continue or redefine the terms of the permission and the decision
shall be final and binding on all persons directly or indirectly interested
therein, except that the Council may, on its own motion, reconsider the same.
This section only pertains to city owned property and does not authorize the
disposition of property dedicated to the public, which shall only be undertaken
pursuant to state law.
   (B)   Public vehicles. Free and reserved on-street parking shall be limited
to city owned and operated vehicles.
   (C)   Forbidden practices. It is unlawful for any person to park or
otherwise infringe upon a grant of right under this section, when clearly and
distinctly marked or sign posted. It is unlawful for any person not granted the
right to assert the same, or for any grantee of the right to exceed the terms
or conditions of the right.
   (D)   Condition. Before granting any permit under any of the provisions of
this section, the Council may impose insurance or bonding conditions thereon as
it, considering the possible harm to public or private property or to persons,
deems proper for safeguarding persons and property. The insurance or bond shall
also indemnify the city from any suit, action or cause of action arising out of
the conduct of the permit holder or an agent or employee or the permit holder.
(Prior Code, § 7.11) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.12 CURB AND GUTTER, STREET AND SIDEWALK PAINTING OR COLORING.
   It is unlawful for any person to paint, letter or color any street, sidewalk
or curb and gutter for advertising purposes, or to paint or color any street,
sidewalk or curb and gutter for any purpose, except by city employees acting
within the course or scope of their employment. Provided, however, that this
provision shall not apply to uniformly coloring concrete or other surfacing, or
uniformly painted house numbers, as the coloring may be approved by the City
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 7.12) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.13 MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motorized vehicle,
except a wheelchair powered by electricity and occupied by a disabled person,
on any public sidewalk or public property designated for use as a pedestrian
walkway or bicycle trail, except when crossing the same for ingress and egress
through a curb cut to property lying on the other side thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7.13) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.14 INDIVIDUAL AND GANG MAIL RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Homeowner responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of homeowners
to maintain mail receptacles to serve their property. Receptacles include all
of individual U.S. mailboxes, posts and related structural pieces, and
newspaper boxes that are placed within the boulevard area of a public street or
roadway.
   (B)   Individual mail receptacles. In areas where gang mail receptacles are
not established for use by residents, the installation of individual mail
receptacles is authorized, subject to U.S. Postal Service authorization. The
mailbox height shall be no less than 42 inches as measured from the surface of
the road to the bottom of the mailbox. The post must be established with
sufficient depth within the ground so as to be structurally sound.
   (C)   Damage to individual mail receptacles. If damage occurs through city
snowplowing efforts to individual mail receptacles and they are installed both
deep enough to be structurally sound and placed at the correct height, the city
will repair it at city expense. In the event the mail receptacle was not
installed properly or damaged by others, it shall be the responsibility of the
homeowner to repair.
   (D)   Gang mail receptacles. In areas of the city where gang mail
receptacles have been established, homeowners are required to use these for the
establishment of their mailboxes and newspaper boxes. No individual mailbox
installations are authorized within the boulevard area of a public street or
roadway.
   (E)   Damage to gang mail receptacles. If damage occurs through city
snowplowing efforts to gang mail receptacles and they are installed both deep
enough to be structurally sound and placed at the correct height, the city will
repair it at city expense. In the event the mail receptacle was not installed
properly or damaged by others, it shall be the responsibility of the homeowner
to repair. The city shall not be responsible for the repair of gang mail
receptacles. The city shall not be responsible for collecting funds from
homeowners for repairs to gang mail receptacles.
(Prior Code, § 7.15) (Ord. 46, passed 5-16-2000) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.15 SIDEWALK SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Owner and occupant, duties. The owner or occupant of each and every
building or tract of land within the city fronting upon any street, having a
sidewalk abutting upon the premises, will clear the sidewalk of snow and ice
within 48 hours following the termination of any snowstorm or the formation of
ice from any cause and will keep the same clear and free from snow and ice.
Residents living on a cul-de-sac, as illustrated below, will be exempt from
this section. In developments where the number of developed lots does not
exceed five, this section does not apply.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fcbfd8181cc37a94c0b5cf9022fe182d118b528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1234.png]
 
   (B)   City removal. If the owner or occupant does not remove the snow or ice
within 48 hours, the same will be removed under the direction of the Director
of Public Works as time permits. The expense of the removal will be billed to
the property owner and if not paid with in 60 days, levied against the property
as a special assessment and collected as other special assessments are
collected. The expense for this service will be based on either the direct cost
charge to the city by a contractor plus administration fee or the cost of labor
and administration put forth by the city and calculated using the fee set forth
by Council at the beginning of every year.
(Prior Code, § 7.16) (Ord. 133, passed 10-25-2008)
§ 151.16 PRIVATE STREET MAINTENANCE AND TURN BACK.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE STREETS. 
         (a)   All streets identified as private on the city’s official street
map shall be considered PRIVATE for maintenance purposes;
         (b)   Streets contained within outlots or lots under private ownership
as detailed in development contracts with the city;
         (c)   Streets contained within outlots or lots under private ownership
without a public right-of-way or roadway easement;
         (d)   Streets or driveways constructed within public right-of-way
under a private use of public property permit; or
         (e)   Streets platted as “drive”, “driveway” or “road” without
reference to city or public dedication on the plat unless currently maintained
or formally accepted by City Council resolution
   (B)   City maintenance of private streets shall be limited as follows:
      (1)   Repair of damage directly due to the city’s maintenance of public
trail, water, sanitary sewer and storm water systems;
      (2)   Maintenance as detailed in written agreements that demonstrate they
were approved by resolution by the City Council;
      (3)   Snow removal for access of utilities shall be limited to emergency
situations only;
      (4)   Application of winter maintenance ice control and snow removal
measures shall not be done on private streets unless requested by the Fire
Chief or Police Chief for emergency vehicle access; and
      (5)   The city may enter into an agreement to provide winter maintenance
under a contract with the affected properties. The cost of the service would be
billed annually to the Home Owners Association. The costs would include the any
overhead cost associated with the billing and contract maintenance.
   (C)   City Council will consider the adoption of private streets as public
streets under the following process:
      (1)   A petition requesting the change to a public street with a minimum
of 51% of the affected property owner’s signatures. The petition shall include
the provision that the property owners waive their rights to appeal the public
improvement project assessment for any reconstruction;
      (2)   The request shall include a fee and escrow as identified on the
city fee schedule. The petitioners shall be responsible for all costs
associated with the transfer and shall reimburse the city for costs over the
amount of the escrow. Any funds remaining in the escrow will be returned to the
petitioners at the end of the project;
      (3)   An evaluation of the street and condition shall be completed by the
city staff prior to City Council acceptance to determine what improvements may
be required for the street to meet city standards. This may include, but is not
limited to, the following items:
         (a)   Pavement condition;
         (b)   Preventative maintenance records;
         (c)   Pavement thickness;
         (d)   Urban construction;
         (e)   Drainage;
         (f)   Signage; and
         (g)   Pavement markings.
      (4)   The street shall be at or upgraded to the requirements of a
marginal access street with the required ROW and pavement width;
      (5)   Should the reconstruction of the street be required to meet the
city standards, the cost would be completed as a public improvement project and
assessed under M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (6)   The required documentation dedicating the street and easement to
the city for recoding shall be provided; and
      (7)   The approval or denial of the petition for acceptance of the road
as a public street shall be at the sole discretion of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.17) (Ord. 210, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   A person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when that person performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, and upon conviction thereof, the violation shall be punishable as
follows.
   (A)   Where the specific section, division, paragraph or provision
specifically makes the violation thereof a misdemeanor, the violation shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or
under circumstances so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property, it shall be punishable as a misdemeanor; and where the violation
constitutes the third or greater violation, exclusive of parking violations,
committed within a 12-month period, the violation shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any violation not punishable as a misdemeanor under the provisions of
division (A) above, shall be punishable as a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.99) (Ord. passed 5-8-1995)
CHAPTER 152: RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Findings, purpose and intent
   
152.02   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Administration
   
152.05   Utility Coordination Committee
Registration and Permits
   
152.20   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
152.21   Registration information
   
152.22   Reporting obligations
   
152.23   Permit requirement
   
152.24   Permit applications
   
152.25   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
152.26   Action on small wireless facility permit applications
   
152.27   Permit fees
   
152.28   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
152.29   Joint applications
   
152.30   Supplementary applications
   
152.31   Other obligations
   
152.32   Denial or revocation of permit
Facility Regulations
   
152.45   Installation requirements
   
152.46   Inspection
   
152.47   Work done without a permit
   
152.48   Supplementary notification
   
152.49   Revocation of permits
   
152.50   Mapping data
   
152.51   Location and relocation of facilities
   
152.52   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
152.53   Damage to other facilities
   
152.54   Right-of-way vacation
   
152.55   Indemnification and liability
   
152.56   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
152.57   Appeal
   
152.58   Reservation and regulatory police powers
 
   
152.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 152.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   Accordingly, the city enacts this new chapter of this code relating to
right-of-way permits and administration. This chapter imposes reasonable
regulation on the placement and maintenance of facilities and equipment
currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time.
It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of state and federal
agencies. Under this chapter, persons excavating and obstructing the rights-of-
way will bear financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this chapter
provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected costs from persons using
the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws,
Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81 and 238.086 (the “Act”), as they may be amended from time to
time, and 2017 Minn. Laws, Ch. 94, Art. 9, amending the Act, and the other laws
governing applicable rights of the city and users of the right-of-way. This
chapter shall also be interpreted consistent with Minn. Rules 7819.0050-
7819.9950 and Minn. Rules Chapter 7560 where possible. To the extent any
provision of this chapter cannot be interpreted consistently with the Minnesota
Rules, that interpretation most consistent with the Act and other applicable
statutory and case law is intended. This chapter shall not be interpreted to
limit the regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general
ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
Additionally, this chapter along with all other state, federal and other local
law establishes policy for use of city-owned infrastructure and city managed
public rights-of-way to enable the city to:
      (1)   Permit fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory access to the
available capacity on city-owned infrastructure located within the public
right-of-way to the extent permitted by law;
      (2)   Safeguard the reliability and integrity of city-owned
infrastructure located in the public right-of-way to the extent permitted by
law;
      (3)   Comply with applicable federal, state and local regulation as
applied to city-owned infrastructure and city managed public rights-of-way;
      (4)   Support cost-effective, optimal use of public resources and support
economic development to the extent permitted by law; and
      (5)   Manage the public right-of-way to protect the public health, safety
and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 13.01)
§ 152.02 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city elects, pursuant to M.S. §
237.163, subd. 2(b), as it may be amended from time to time, to manage rights-
of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 13.02)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
References hereafter to SECTIONS are, unless otherwise specified, references to
sections in this chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms, whether or not
capitalized.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not ABANDONED
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way or who applies to use city infrastructure or city managed public right-
of-way.
   CAMOUFLAGE/STEALTH SOLUTIONS. The means and methods by which a small cell
wireless facility is designed to conceal the equipment and blend the
installation with the surrounding environment. This is accomplished by
requiring the use of one or more concealment elements or integrating the
facility as an architectural feature of a structure or the landscape so that
the facility and its purpose to provide wireless services is not visually
apparent or prominent. The city will not allow installation of artificial
plants or trees in the public right-of-way. This definition includes the use of
smart pole design.
   CITY. The City of Becker, Minnesota. For purposes of §
152.55, CITY also means the city’s elected officials, officers, employees and
agents.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately, or by the
city or other governmental unit.
   COMMISSION. The State Public Utilities Commission.
   CONCEALMENT ELEMENTS. One or more methods used to conceal small cell
wireless facilities and associated equipment such as, but not limited to,
architecturally designed and integrated light and power poles.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, over a continuous length in excess of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at permittee’s option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, subd. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city; and/or
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct the right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules 7819.1100, means the cost to
achieve a level of restoration, as determined by the city at the time the
permit is issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to
13, set forth in Minn. Rules, parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION ESCROW. The estimated amount established at the time of
permitting by the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the
useful life of the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the
degradation cost.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching or restoration as established by
permit.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the city.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Works of the city, or his
or her authorized designee.
   DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS). A network of one or more antenna and fiber
optic nodes connecting to a common base station or “hub”.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a danger to life or health, or of a significant loss of
property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in order to
restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair or maintain facilities
in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
152.27.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the pavement.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of the person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including the costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing and verifying right-of-way or small wireless
facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third-party
contractor used by the city including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
access lines or revenues generated by the right-of-way or for the city, the
fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota Session
Laws 1997, Chapter 123; M.S. §§ 237.162 or 237.163, as they may be amended from
time to time; or any ordinance enacted under those sections, or the city fees
and costs related to appeals taken pursuant to §
152.57.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is no larger than 24
inches long, 15 inches wide, and 12 inches high, and whose exterior antenna, if
any, is no longer than 11 inches.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
152.27.
   PATCH or PATCHING. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A PATCH consists of (1) the compaction of the subbase and aggregate
base, and (2) the replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions. A PATCH is
considered full restoration only when the pavement is included in the city’s
five-year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given right-of-way permit in M.S. § 237.162, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or non-profit, and whether natural, corporate or political.
   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this chapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been notified
in writing that they have been put on probation.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public
roadway, highway, street, cart way, bicycle lane or public sidewalk in which
the city has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel
purposes and utility easements of the city. A RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the
airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other non-wire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities located in any
right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of State Public
Utilities Commission rules.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user, as defined by M.S. §
237.162, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility, as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, subds. 4 and 6, as may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S.
Chapter 238, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Chapter 308A, as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (6)   Water and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling or
heating services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute or furnish gas, electricity, communications or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A SERVICE LATERAL is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer’s premises.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility provided the equipment is, in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet in
volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications
demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding equipment, power
transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical cable runs for the
connection of power and other services, and any equipment concealed from public
view within or behind an existing structure or concealment.
      (2)   A micro wireless facility.
   SMART POLE DESIGN. A small cell wireless facility, along with necessary
telecommunications equipment, design as an internally integral part of a pole
or wireless support structure as to blend the pole into the environment.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way that is used or is intended to be used for providing wireless
service, or transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information.
For purposes of this chapter, a cable communication system defined and
regulated under M.S. Chapter 238, as it may be amended from time to time, and
telecommunication activities related to providing natural gas or electric
energy services, a public utility, as defined in M.S. § 216B.02, as it may be
amended from time to time, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency
organized under M.S. Chapter 453 and 453A, as it may be amended from time to
time, or a cooperative electric association organized under M.S. Chapter 308A,
as it may be amended from time to time, are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY
USERS for purposes of this chapter, except to the extent the entity is offering
wireless service.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the city’s two-year plan, in which case, it is considered
FULL RESTORATION.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   TWO-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next two years.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and a
small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures,
wireline backhaul facilities or cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, or not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device, that is provided using wireless facilities. WIRELESS
SERVICE does not include services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 761 et seq., as amended,
including cable service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.03)
§ 152.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Director is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits and the ordinances
related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 13.04)
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter precludes the city from requiring a franchise
agreement with the applicant, as allowed by law, in addition to requirements
set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 13.33)
(Ord. 194, passed 12-26-2017)
§ 152.05 UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The city may create an Advisory Utility Coordination Committee.
Participation on the Committee is voluntary. It will be composed of any
registrants that wish to assist the city in obtaining information and, by
making recommendations regarding use of the right-of-way, and to improve the
process of performing construction work therein.
   (B)   The city may determine the size of the Committee and shall appoint
members from a list of registrants that have expressed a desire to assist the
city.
(Prior Code, § 13.05)
**** REGISTRATION AND PERMITS ****
§ 152.20 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register with the city. Registration will
consist of providing application information.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a city ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining the boulevard plantings or gardens under this
chapter. However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
provisions of M.S. Chapter 216D, Gopher One Call Law, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 13.06) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the city at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant’s name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (2)   The name, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration; and
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the (i) use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and (ii) placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers’ compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter;
         (f)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
         (g)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under M.S. § 300.06, as it may be amended from time to
time, as recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State; and
         (h)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the State Public Utilities Commission or other authorization or approval
from the applicable state or federal agency to lawfully operate, where the
person is lawfully required to have the authorization or approval from the
commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
(Prior Code, § 13.07)
§ 152.22 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by December
1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for underground
facilities with the city. The plan shall be submitted using a format designated
by the city and shall contain the information determined by the city to be
necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the frequency of
excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way.
      (2)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
“next-year project”); and
         (b)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a “five-year project”).
      (3)   The term PROJECT in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
      (4)   By January 1 of each year, the city will have available for
inspection in the city’s office a composite list of all projects of which the
city has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for
keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (5)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the city and all other
registrants of all changes in the list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another registrant
listed by the other registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Prior Code, § 13.08)
§ 152.23 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way, or install or place facilities in
the right-of-way, without first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way
permit from the city to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the permit and to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      (3)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure, to
collocate a small wireless facility, or to otherwise install a small wireless
facility in the specified portion or the right-of-way, to the extent specified
therein, provided that the permit shall remain in effect for the length of time
the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless:
      (1)   The person makes a supplementary application for another right-of-
way permit before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules 7819.1000, Subp. 3 and
notwithstanding division (B) above, the city shall establish and impose a delay
penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction,
patching or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established from time to
time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.09)
§ 152.24 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Application for a permit is made to the city.
   (B)   Right-of-way permit applications shall contain, and will be considered
complete only upon compliance with, the requirements of the following
provisions:
      (1)   Registration with the city pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities;
      (3)   Payment of money due the city for:
         (a)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
         (b)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
         (c)   Any undisputed loss, damage or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
         (d)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
      (4)   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing; and
      (5)   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards.
(Prior Code, § 13.10)
§ 152.25 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state and federal laws, including, but not limited to,
M.S. §§ 216D.01 to 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System), as it
may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules, Chapter 7560.
   (C)   Small wireless facility conditions. In addition to division (B) above,
the erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation
of a small wireless facility, or other installation of a small wireless
facility in the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      (2)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city’s written authorization,
provided that the city may impose a lower height limit in the applicable permit
to protect the public health, safety and welfare or to protect the right-of-way
and its current use, and further provided that a registrant may replace an
existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height subject to the conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable permit.
      (3)   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet above its
wireless support structure.
      (4)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the city may impose separation requirements
between the structure and any existing wireless support structure or other
facilities in and around the right-of-way.
      (5)   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, the city may impose reasonable requirements to accommodate
the particular design, appearance or intended purpose of the structure.
      (6)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement or relocation
requirements on the replacement of the structure.
   (D)   Small wireless facility standards. In addition to divisions (B) and
(C) above, the erection of a wireless support structure, the collocation of a
small wireless facility or other installation of a small wireless facility in
the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following standards.
      (1)   All small wireless facilities and related equipment must be
designed with camouflage/stealth solutions as to minimize visual impact on
surrounding properties and from public streets.
      (2)   Cable connecting the antennae to the equipment box shall be
contained inside the pole or support structure or shall be flush mounted and
covered with a metal, plastic or similar material cap matching the color of the
pole or structure on which it is installed, properly secured and maintained by
the applicant.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide proof that it is a licensed provider
and will comply with all applicable federal, state and city laws and
regulations, including those regarding wireless communications services.
      (4)   No signs are permitted in connection with any small cell
telecommunications antenna.
      (5)   No lights are permitted on any monopole or antenna unless required
by the Federal Communications Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration
or the city.
   (E)   Small wireless facility agreement. 
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on a small
wireless support structure owned or controlled by the city, or any other city
asset in the right-of-way, after the applicant has executed a standard small
wireless facility collocation agreement with the city. The standard collocation
agreement may require payment of the following:
         (a)   One hundred fifty dollars per year for rent to collocate on the
city structure;
         (b)   Twenty-five dollars per year for maintenance associated with the
collocation; and
         (c)   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
            1.   Seventy-three dollars per radio node less than or equal to 100
maximum watts;
            2.   One hundred eighty-two dollars per radio node over 100 maximum
watts; or
            3.   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual cost exceed the
foregoing.
      (2)   The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not
in lieu of, the required small wireless facility permit, provided, however,
that the applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or
franchise in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit
does not supersede, alter or affect any then-existing agreement between the
city and applicant.
(Prior Code, § 13.11)
§ 152.26 ACTION ON SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Deadline for action. The city shall approve or deny a small wireless
facility permit application within 90 days after filing of the application. The
small wireless facility permit, and any associated building permit application,
shall be deemed approved if the city fails to approve or deny the application
within the review periods established in this section.
   (B)   Consolidated applications. 
      (1)   An applicant may file a consolidated small wireless facility permit
application addressing the proposed collocation of up to 15 small wireless
facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a local government unit,
provided that all small wireless facilities in the application:
         (a)   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         (b)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         (c)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
      (2)   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the
city may approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not
use denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless
facilities in the application.
   (C)   Tolling of deadline. The 90-day deadline for action on a small
wireless facility permit application may be tolled if:
      (1)   The city receives applications from one or more applicants seeking
approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a seven-
day period. In this case, the city may extend the deadline for all applications
by 30 days by informing the affected applicants in writing of the extension;
      (2)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the city provides written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within
30 days of receipt the application. Upon submission of additional documents or
information, the city shall have ten days to notify the applicant in writing of
any still-missing information; and
      (3)   The city and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
(Prior Code, § 13.12)
§ 152.27 PERMIT FEES.
   Please reference the fee schedule for the list of permit fees.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall impose an excavation permit fee
in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall impose an obstruction permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Small wireless facility permit fee. The city shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover:
      (1)   Management costs; and
      (2)   City engineering, make-ready and construction costs associated with
collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (D)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay the fees within 30 days of billing.
   (E)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach, as stated in §
152.49, are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 13.13)
§ 152.28 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following the
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee’s improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minn. Rules 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. The work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do the work. In that event, the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
(Prior Code, § 13.14)
§ 152.29 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application by
two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required.
(Prior Code, § 13.15)
§ 152.30 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. 
      (1)   A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area of the right-of-
way specified in the permit.
      (2)   No permittee may do any work outside the area specified in the
permit, except as provided herein.
      (3)   Any permittee which determines that an area greater than that
specified in the permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in
that greater area:
         (a)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional
fees required thereby; and
         (b)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Prior Code, § 13.16)
§ 152.31 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and federal laws, including, but not limited to, M.S. §§
216D.01-.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System), as it may be amended
from time to time, and Minn. Rules, Chapter 7560. A permittee shall perform all
work in conformance with all applicable codes and established rules and
regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the right-of-way pursuant
to its permit, regardless of who does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for the work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Chapter 216D, as it may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules,
Chapter 7560 and shall require potholing or open cutting over existing
underground utilities before excavating, as determined by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 13.17)
§ 152.32 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Reasons for denial. The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
   (B)   Procedural requirements. The denial or revocation of a permit must be
made in writing and must document the basis for the denial. The city must
notify the applicant or right-of-way user in writing within three business days
of the decision to deny or revoke a permit. If an application is denied, the
right-of-way user may address the reasons for denial identified by the city and
resubmit its application. If the application is resubmitted within 30 days of
receipt of the notice of denial, no additional application fee shall be
imposed. The city must approve or deny the resubmitted application within 30
days after submission.
(Prior Code, § 13.18)
**** FACILITY REGULATIONS ****
§ 152.45 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as
they are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163, as they may be
amended from time to time. Installation of service laterals shall be performed
in accordance with Minn. Rules, Chapter 7560 and these ordinances. Service
lateral installation is further subject to those requirements and conditions
set forth by the city in the applicable permits and/or agreements referenced in
§
152.49(B).
(Prior Code, § 13.19)
§ 152.46 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If the proof has not been presented within
the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
152.49.
(Prior Code, § 13.20)
§ 152.47 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. 
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the Director of any event
regarding its facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The registrant
may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Excavators’ notification to Gopher State One Call regarding an emergency
situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the necessary
permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the rest of the
requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for
the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant’s
facilities, the city will attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event,
the city may take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the
emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities
occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.21) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.48 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Prior Code, § 13.22)
§ 152.49 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee’s control;
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
152.46; and/or
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy the violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. Permittee’s failure to so
contact the city, or permittee’s failure to timely submit an acceptable plan,
or permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee’s failure to
so contact the city, or permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the city may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly outside of
the permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, the permittee’s permit will automatically be revoked
and the permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except
for emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
(Prior Code, § 13.23)
§ 152.50 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the “as-built” location of all equipment installed,
owned, and maintained by the permittee. The maps and drawings shall include the
horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall be
provided consistent with the city’s electronic mapping system, when practical
or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide maps and drawings
pursuant to this subsection shall be grounds for revoking the permit holder’s
registration.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150,
Subp. 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of establishing
the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the Director reasonably requires it.
Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director evidence
satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral locations.
Compliance with this division (B) and with applicable Gopher State One Call
law, being M.S. Chapter 216D, as it may be amended from time to time, and
Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after December 31, 2005,
shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for:
      (1)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project,
including those under M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision or
site plan approval under M.S. Chapter 462, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Director shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of
providing the information to the city. Failure to provide prompt and accurate
information on the service laterals installed may result in the revocation of
the permit issued for the work or future permits to the offending permittee or
its subcontractors.
(Prior Code, § 13.24)
§ 152.51 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance required. Placement, location and relocation of facilities
must comply with the Act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules
7819.3100, 7819.5000 and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit
authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Undergrounding. Unless otherwise agreed in a franchise or other
agreement between the applicable right-of-way user and the city, Facilities in
the right-of-way must be located or relocated and maintained underground in
accordance with §
150.09.
   (C)   Corridors.
      (1)   The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-way, or any
particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facility that
is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will someday be located
within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction or other permits issued by
the city involving the installation or replacement of facilities shall
designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at
the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause
shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs and hardship to the
registrant.
   (D)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this chapter, any facilities
found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (E)   Limitation of space. To protect the health, safety and welfare of the
public, or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the
city shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or
additional facilities within the right-of-way. In making the decisions, the
city shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and
potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by
considerations of the public interest, the public’s needs for the particular
utility service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with
respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the
right-of-way, and future city plans for public improvements and development
projects which have been determined to be in the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 13.25)
§ 152.52 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01 to 216D.09
(“One Call Excavation Notice System”), as it may be amended from time to time,
before the start date of any right-of-way excavation, each registrant who has
facilities or equipment in the area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal
and vertical placement of all the facilities. Any registrant whose facilities
are less than 20 inches below a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and
work closely with the excavation contractor to establish the exact location of
its facilities and the best procedure for excavation.
(Prior Code, § 13.26)
§ 152.53 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support or move a registrant’s facilities to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
city’s response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant’s facilities.
(Prior Code, § 13.27)
§ 152.54 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules 7819.3200.
(Prior Code, § 13.28)
§ 152.55 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this chapter, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance
with the provisions of Minn. Rules 7819.1250.
(Prior Code, § 13.29)
§ 152.56 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant’s obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.30)
§ 152.57 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that: (1) has been denied registration; (2) has been
denied a permit; (3) has had a permit revoked; (4) believes that the fees
imposed are not in conformity with M.S. § 237.163, subd. 6, as it may be
amended from time to time; or (5) disputes a determination of the Director
regarding §
152.50(B) may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition or decision reviewed,
upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a
timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting, provided the
right-of-way user has submitted its appeal with sufficient time to include the
appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by the City Council affirming the
denial, revocation or fee imposition will be in writing and supported by
written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Prior Code, § 13.31)
§ 152.58 RESERVATION AND REGULATORY POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee’s rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances as necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 13.32)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Every person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 13.34) (Ord. 200, passed 3-12-2018)
CHAPTER 153: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Unified Development Ordinance of the city is adopted by reference as if
set out in full herein.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   NAMING AND RENAMING STREETS
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1988-12       9-20-1988   Granting cable communications franchise to Mark Twain
                          Cablevision for 15 years
89-2          10-17-1989  Granting gas franchise to Northern Power Company for
                          20 years
1992-2        5-5-1992    Granting electric franchise to Northern States Power
                          Company for 20 years
67            11-17-2001  Granting Sherburne Cable-Com a franchise to erect a
                          cable system
81            7-22-2003   Granting US Cable of Coastal Texas, LP a franchise to
                          erect a cable system
161           5-21-2012   Amending Ord. 67 regarding cable system franchise
164           12-10-2012  Granting Northern States Power Company a franchise to
                          erect an electric distribution system
165           12-10-2012  Granting Northern States Power Company a franchise to
                          erect a gas distribution system
212           5-13-2019   Granting Midcontinent Communications a franchise to
                          maintain a cable communications system
                         
 
TABLE II: NAMING AND RENAMING STREETS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
3             7-18-1995   Renaming Woodland Lane to Woodland Court
103           6-7-2005    Renaming eight streets and avenues, changing NW to SE
113           5-6-2006    Adding two street names for the east/west routes
                          within the Fossum Field Subdivision
222           4-21-2020   Renaming 65th Avenue SE to 132nd Street SE
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
52    - -    Annexing tracts of land
1988- 5-17-  Annexing a tract of land
6     1988
1988- 7-19-  Annexing a tract of land
10    1988
1993- 8-3-   Annexing parts of a lot
4     1993
1997- 6-19-  Annexing tracts of land
23    1997
23    7-21-  Annexing approximately 103.6 acres of land
      1997
R.    10-16- Annexing tracts of land
01-52 2001
51    11-13- Annexing approximately ten acres of land
      2001
R.    1-15-  Annexing tracts of land, including an easement
02-5  2002
R.    7-2-   Annexing property
02-39 2002
74    4-8-   Annexing a parcel of land
      2003
R.    10-21- Annexing several areas of land
03-36 2003
             Joint resolution with the Town of Becker designating an
R.    2-4-   unincorporated area in need of orderly annexation and conferring
04-11 2004   jurisdiction of the area to Minnesota Planning pursuant to M.S. §
             414.0325
R.    2-1-   Annexing tracts of land
05-09 2005
R.    7-5-   Annexing tracts of land
05-40 2005
287   9-3-   Annexing three parcels of land
      2024
            
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
94-2          3-1-1994    [No description provided]
94-5          4-19-1994   [No description provided]
94-7          7-5-1994    [No description provided]
94-9          9-6-1994    [No description provided]
43            3-7-2000    [No description provided]
50            10-23-2000  [No description provided]
53            1-2-2001    [No description provided]
59            8-11-2001   Rezoning south half of east half of Lot 1, Block 3,
                          Evergreen Park
62            10-27-2001  Rezoning Lot 1, Block 1 DK Becker Addition C-COM to
                          R-3
69            5-14-2002   Rezoning Autumn Ridge from AG to R-1
59            8-11-2002   Rezoning land from Single-Family Residential to
                          Multi-Family Residential
71            11-15-2002  Rezoning Grace Lutheran Church from AG to QPUB
74            4-8-2003    Rezoning Woods Edge from AG to R-1
85            5-18-2004   Rezoning River Oaks Subdivision from AG to R-1
86            6-1-2004    Rezoning Savanna Village from AG to R-1
87            6-1-2004    Rezoning Elk Wynd Creek from AG to R-1
88            7-10-2004   Rezoning River Oaks North from AG to R-1
90            7-10-2004   Rezoning Xcel Energy/Becker Truss from AG to I-PRK
97            12-18-2004  Rezoning Fossum Fields from AG to R-1
98            2-1-2005    Bridgeland Development, 10-24 Developers, LLC
111           4-8-2005    Lot 1, Block 3, Five D Addition
100           4-23-2005   River’s Bend, 10-24 Developers, LLC
101           7-5-2005    Rezoning Marlene Olson R-1 to C-COM
108           11-5-2005   Rezoning Lot 1, Block 1, Energy Park Second Addition,
                          Industrial Park to Public (PUB)
118           3-17-2007   Rezoning parcels of land from AG to I-PG
121           8-25-2007   Rezoning parcels of land from AG to R-2
144           3-29-2010   Rezoning lots from C-COM to C-HWY
162           5-21-2012   Rezoning land from AG to I-PRK
163           12-10-2012  Rezoning land from AG to I-PG
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section            Code Section
12.25                   35.01;
                        35.04
12.37                   35.06
Chapter 13              30.12;
                        33.06
Chapter 13D             30.01;
                        30.12
14.57 to 14.69          111.38;
                        111.99
15.73, subd. 3          152.03
18.77, subd. 8          91.37
18K.02, subd. 3         117.05
84.787, subd. 7         71.01
84.81                   71.01
84.81 through 84.911    71.41
84.872                  71.35
84.90                   71.01
84.92, subd. 8          71.01
84.92, subd. 8-10       71.01
84.92 subd. 9           71.01
84.92, subd. 10         71.01
84.9256, subd. 2        71.01
Chapter 88              91.70
97A.401                 90.56
103B.211, subd. 4       51.06
Chapter 117             32.27
120A.05                 117.05
120A.24                 117.05
151.01, subd. 18        117.05
                        117.01—
151.72                  117.03;
                        117.05
151.72, subd. 1(c)      117.05
151.72, subd. 1(h)      117.05
151.72, subd. 1(i)      117.05
151.72, subd. 6         117.42
152.0263, subd. 5       117.03
157.15, subd. 9         115.02
157.16                  111.03
157.16, subd. 3(d)      111.03
168.10                  33.01
160.22                  91.02
160.26                  150.05
168B.011, subd. 3       91.18
                        33.01;
                        70.01;
Chapter 169             70.05;
                        71.02;
                        150.05;
                        151.01
169.011, subd. 15a      70.05
169.011, subd. 15b      70.05
169.011, subd. 15c      70.05
169.011, subd. 40(a)    71.02
169.045                 71.02
169.045, subd. 1(3)     71.02
169.045, subd. 7        71.02
169A.35, subd. 6        111.05
169.70                  71.02
169.80                  150.05
169.81                  150.05
169.825                 150.05
169.86                  150.05
169.999                 10.98
Chapter 171             71.02
Chapter 216B            50.04
216B.02                 152.03
216B.02, subd. 4        152.02 
216B.02, subd. 6        152.02
216D.04, subd. 3        152.02
                        152.20;
Chapter 216D            152.31;
                        152.50
                        152.25;
216D.01 to 216D.09      152.31;
                        152.52
237.16                  152.01
                        152.01;
237.162                 152.03;
                        152.45
237.162, subd. 4        152.03
                        152.01;
237.163                 152.03;
                        152.45
237.163, subd. 2(b)     152.02
237.163, subd. 6        152.57
237.79                  152.01
237.81                  152.01
Chapter 238             152.03
238.086                 152.01
243.166                 130.22;
                        130.23
243.167                 130.23
244.052, subd. 3        130.22
244.052, subd. 3(i)     130.23
278.01 to 278.13        116.10
297F.01, subd. 3        112.02
300.06                  152.21
303.02                  116.06
Chapter 308A            152.03
Chapter 326B            150.01
326B.43, subd. 2(n)     150.01
326B.103, subd. 1a      34.05
326B.103, subd. 8a      34.05
326B.103, subd. 11      150.01
326B.103, subd. 13      150.01
326B.133                150.01
326B.148                34.05;
                        150.02
Chapter 329             113.03
333.01                  117.22
333.02                  116.06
                        111.01;
                        111.02;
Chapter 340A            111.20;
                        111.23;
                        111.38;
                        111.99
340A.101                111.03;
                        111.22
340A.24                 111.22
340A.28                 111.22
340A.285                111.22
340A.301, subd. 6(a)    111.22
340A.301, subd. 6(c)    111.22
340A.301, subd. 6(d)    111.22
340A.301, subd. 6(i)    111.22
340A.301, subd. 6(j)    111.22
340A.401                116.11
340A.4011, subd. 1      111.22
340A.404, subd. 1(b)    111.22
340A.404, subd. 4(a)    111.22
340A.404, subd. 4(b)    111.22
340A.404, subd. 5       111.22
340A.408                111.23
340A.408, subd. 2(b)    111.22
340A.408, subd. 3       111.22
340A.408, subd. 3.c     34.04
340A.408, subd. 5       111.23
340A.409                111.25
340A.413, subd. 3       111.20
340A.414                111.37
340A.414, subd. 6       111.22
340A.503, subd. 1(a)(1) 111.56
340A.504                111.33
340A.504, subd. 3       111.22
340A.504, subd. 3(c)    111.22
340A.509                111.02
340A.707                111.07
340A.801                111.25
                        117.01;
                        117.02;
Chapter 342             117.05;
                        117.21;
                        117.22;
                        117.60
342.01                  117.05
342.10, subd. 50        117.05
342.10 to 342.118       117.21
342.11                  117.21
                        117.22;
342.13                  117.24;
                        117.60
342.13(c)               117.03
342.22                  117.03;
                        117.22
342.22, subd. 3(d)      117.22
342.22, subd. 4(b)      117.22
342.22, subd. 5         117.22
342.22, subd. 5(e)      117.26
342.24                  117.22 
342.39, subd. 2         117.60
Chapter 343             90.36
346.155, subd. 1(e)     90.55
Chapter 349             118.01;
                        118.11
349.21 to 349.22        118.99
349.11 to 349.23        118.04;
                        118.05
349.12                  118.03
349.166                 118.05
364.03, subd. 2         116.09;
                        116.14
364.03, subd. 3         116.09
364.06                  33.06
364.09                  33.06
375.51                  150.25
412.501 to 412.531      32.25
412.581                 31.03
412.591                 31.03
414.0325                TSO Table III
415.11                  30.08
                        33.04;
Chapter 429             151.16;
                        152.50
429.061                 91.22
429.101                 91.22;
                        91.43
Chapter 453             152.03
Chapter 453A            152.03
461.12                  112.99
Chapter 462             152.50
462.357                 117.03
463.15 through 463.26   91.01
463.17                  91.21
Chapter 469             32.27
469.001 to 469.047      32.27
469.090 to 469.108      32.27
469.124 to 469.134      32.27
471.59                  32.03;
                        32.26
471.895                 30.12
514.67                  91.01
609.02, subd. 7a.       90.36
609.02, subd. 8         90.36
609.341 through 609.352 114.07
609.75 to 609.763       118.04;
                        118.99
Chapter 617             114.06
617.23 through 617.299  114.07
617.241                 114.03
624.20, subd. 1(b)      130.02
624.20, subd. 1(c)      130.02
626.862                 10.20
631.48                  10.99
Chapter 429             151.05
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2026 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2026 Code Section
1.06               34.02
1.11               31.01
2.08               11.01
2.12               31.02
2.13               31.03
2.14               31.04
2.15               31.05
2.16               31.05
2.18               31.05
2.19               34.01;
                   34.04
2.30               32.01
2.31               32.02
2.32               32.03
2.33               32.04
2.34               32.05
2.40               32.20
2.41               32.21
2.42               32.22
2.43               32.23
2.44               32.24
2.45               32.25
2.46               32.26
2.47               32.27
2.60               33.01
2.61               33.02
2.62               33.03
2.63               33.04
2.64               33.05
2.65               33.06
2.70               33.07
2.71               33.07
3.01               50.01
3.02               50.02
3.03               50.03
3.04               50.04
3.05               50.05
3.19               50.06
3.20               51.01 
                   51.12
3.30               52.01 
                   52.09
3.35               50.07
3.36               50.08
3.40               53.01;
                   53.02
                   50.99;
3.99               51.99;
                   52.99
4.01               150.01
4.02               150.02
4.03               150.03
4.031              150.04
4.04               150.05
4.05               150.06
4.06               150.07
4.07               150.08
4.10               150.09
4.11               150.10
4.99               150.99
5.01               111.01
5.02               111.02
5.03               111.03
5.04               111.04
5.05               111.05
5.06               111.06
5.07               111.07
5.08               111.08
5.09               111.20
5.10               111.21
5.11               111.22
5.12               111.23
5.13               111.24
5.14               111.25
5.15               111.26
5.16               111.27
5.17               111.28
5.18               111.29
5.19               111.30
5.20               111.31
5.21               111.32
5.22               111.33
5.23               111.34
5.24               111.35
5.25               111.50 
                   111.55
5.26               111.35
5.27               111.35
5.28               111.37
5.29               111.56
5.30               111.38
5.31               111.99
5.99               111.99
6.01               110.01
6.02               110.02
6.03               110.03
6.04               110.04
6.05               110.05
6.06               110.06
6.07               110.07
6.08               110.08
6.09               110.09
6.10               110.10
6.11               110.11
                   112.01 
6.20               112.11;
                   112.99
                   118.01 
6.21               118.14;
                   118.99
                   113.01 
6.22               113.09;
                   113.99
                   114.01 
6.25               114.15;
                   114.99
                   115.01 
6.26               115.09;
                   115.99
                   116.01 
6.27               116.15;
                   116.99
                   117.01 
                   117.05;
                   117.20 
                   117.26;
6.28               117.40 
                   117.45;
                   117.60;
                   117.61;
                   114.99
7.01               151.01
7.02               151.02
7.03               151.03
7.04               151.04
7.05               151.05
7.06               151.06
7.07               151.07
7.08               151.08
7.09               151.09
7.10               151.10
7.11               151.11
7.12               151.12
7.13               151.13
7.14               71.55 
                   71.59
7.15               151.14
7.16               151.15
7.17               151.16
7.99               151.99
8.01               70.01
8.02               70.02
8.03               71.15 
                   71.17
8.04               70.03
8.05               70.04
8.07               70.05
8.08               70.06
8.09               70.07
8.10               71.30 
                   71.41
8.11               71.01;
                   71.02
9.01               72.01
9.02               72.02
                   72.03;
9.03               72.04;
                   72.99
9.04               72.05
9.05               72.06
9.06               72.07
9.07               72.08
9.08               72.09
9.09               72.10
9.10               72.12
9.11               72.12
9.20               72.13
9.21               72.14
9.22               72.15
9.23               72.16
9.24               72.17
9.25               72.18
9.26               72.19
9.27               72.20
9.28               72.21
9.99               72.99
10.02              150.11
10.04              130.02;
                   131.01
                   90.01;
10.06              90.03 
                   90.20
10.07              90.35 
                   90.40
10.08              90.55 
                   90.59
10.09              34.15;
                   34.16
10.10              34.03
10.12              130.37;
                   130.99
                   91.37;
10.21              91.44 
                   91.47
10.23              52.10
10.24              52.25 
                   52.28
10.26              91.72
10.29              91.02
10.31              130.01
10.40              92.01
                   130.20 
10.47              130.24;
                   130.99
10.48              92.02;
                   92.99
                   53.15 
10.50              53.17;
                   53.99
13.01              152.01
13.02              152.02
13.03              152.03
13.04              152.04
13.05              152.05
13.06              152.20
13.07              152.21
13.08              152.22
13.09              152.23
13.10              152.24
13.11              152.25
13.12              152.26
13.13              152.27
13.14              152.28
13.15              152.29
13.16              152.30
13.17              152.31
13.18              152.32
13.19              152.45
13.20              152.46
13.21              152.47
13.22              152.48
13.23              152.49
13.24              152.50
13.25              152.51
13.26              152.52
13.27              152.53
13.28              152.54
13.29              152.55
13.30              152.56
13.31              152.57
13.32              152.58
13.33              152.04
13.34              152.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
01-52    10-16-2001  TSO Table III
02-5     1-15-2002   TSO Table III
02-39    7-2-2002    TSO Table III
03-36    10-21-2003  TSO Table III
04-11    2-4-2004    TSO Table III
05-09    2-1-2005    TSO Table III
05-40    7-5-2005    TSO Table III
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
52       - -         TSO Table III
1988-6   5-17-1988   TSO Table III
1988-10  7-19-1988   TSO Table III
1986-12  9-20-1988   TSO Table I
1988-12  9-20-1988   TSO Table I
89-2     10-17-1989  TSO Table I
1992-2   5-5-1992    TSO Table I
1993-4   8-3-1993    TSO Table III
93-9     1-1-1994    50.07
94-2     3-1-1994    TSO Table IV
94-5     4-19-1994   TSO Table IV
94-7     7-5-1994    TSO Table IV
94-9     9-6-1994    TSO Table IV
                     31.01;
                     31.04;
                     31.05;
                     32.05;
                     32.27;
                     33.05;
                     33.07;
                     50.05;
                     50.99;
                     51.11;
-        5-8-1995    51.99;
                     52.09;
                     52.28;
                     52.99;
                     53.99;
                     72.12;
                     72.21;
                     72.99;
                     150.06;
                     150.10;
                     151.13;
                     151.99
3        7-18-1995   TSO Table II
5        10-8-1995   72.99
16       9-3-1996    33.07
1997-23  6-19-1997   TSO Table III
23       7-21-1997   TSO Table III
24       8-9-1997    90.20
26       3-21-1998   72.99
30       6-23-1998   72.99
35       11-17-1998  150.07
                     72.03;
38       2-6-1999    72.04;
                     72.13
43       3-7-2000    TSO Table IV
46       5-16-2000   151.14
47       7-15-2000   51.04;
                     51.12
                     52.09 
                     72.99;
47       7-17-2000   91.45;
                     150.09;
                     150.10
                     11.01;
                     31.02;
                     31.03;
                     32.23;
                     33.03;
                     33.04;
                     34.02;
48       9-9-2000    50.02;
                     52.05;
                     52.28;
                     90.05;
                     110.02—
                     110.04;
                     110.10;
                     151.08
50       10-23-2000  TSO Table IV
53       1-2-2001    TSO Table IV
54       1-2-2001    51.10
59       8-11-2001   TSO Table IV
                     11.01;
                     32.23;
61       8-25-2001   33.04;
                     33.07;
                     50.04;
                     90.06
61       8-27-2001   31.02;
                     33.01
62       10-27-2001  TSO Table IV
51       11-13-2001  TSO Table III
67       11-17-2001  TSO Table I
70       5-11-2002   50.07;
                     50.08
69       5-14-2002   TSO Table IV
59       8-11-2002   TSO Table IV
60       8-11-2002   32.21
71       11-15-2002  TSO Table IV
74       4-8-2003    TSO Table III;
                     TSO Table IV
81       7-22-2003   TSO Table I
75       12-15-2003  150.03;
                     150.04
83       1-24-2004   150.03
84       4-17-2004   72.99
85       5-18-2004   TSO Table IV
86       6-1-2004    TSO Table IV
87       6-1-2004    TSO Table IV
88       7-10-2004   TSO Table IV
90       7-10-2004   TSO Table IV
95       11-16-2004  32.21
97       12-18-2004  TSO Table IV
98       2-1-2005    TSO Table IV
111      4-8-2005    TSO Table IV
100      4-23-2005   TSO Table IV
103      6-7-2005    TSO Table II
101      7-5-2005    TSO Table IV
106      9-10-2005   50.04
108      11-5-2005   TSO Table IV
113      5-6-2006    TSO Table II
116      11-25-2006  150.03
117      11-25-2006  53.02
118      3-17-2007   TSO Table IV
120      4-7-2007    90.59
121      8-25-2007   TSO Table IV
123      12-1-2007   31.02;
                     32.23
124      12-1-2007   72.11
130      8-23-2008   150.08
131      9-6-2008    34.02
133      10-25-2008  151.15
137      4-27-2009   34.16
140      9-21-2009   34.16
145      1-20-2010   51.06
145      2-1-2010    34.16
146      2-8-2010    150.01;
                     150.02
144      3-29-2010   TSO Table IV
147      3-29-2010   91.02
148      3-29-2010   91.47
149      6-28-2010   51.05;
                     150.08
160      5-7-2012    31.02
161      5-21-2012   TSO Table I
162      5-21-2012   TSO Table IV
163      12-10-2012  TSO Table IV
164      12-10-2012  TSO Table I
165      12-10-2012  TSO Table I
167      4-29-2013   33.06
168      4-29-2013   31.05
171      1-27-2014   32.27
178      5-26-2015   31.05
184      12-27-2016  34.03
185      12-27-2016  34.16
186      1-23-2017   34.03
190      6-12-2017   90.14
                     113.01—
191      8-21-2017   113.09;
                     113.99
194      12-26-2017  152.04
195      12-26-2017  50.07
197      12-26-2017  50.04
198      2-26-2018   111.99
199      2-26-2018   34.03
200      3-12-2018   152.99
201      3-26-2018   50.04
205      10-8-2018   111.31
206      11-12-2018  32.23
210      12-17-2018  151.16
207      12-24-2018  34.03
208      12-24-2018  34.16
196      12-26-2018  34.03
211      2-11-2019   34.02
212      5-13-2019   TSO Table I
                     150.03—
216      9-9-2019    150.05;
                     150.08
218      12-3-2019   34.02
219      12-23-2019  34.03
222      4-21-2020   TSO Table II
223      5-11-2020   91.44
224      6-22-2020   91.44
                     115.01—
225      7-27-2020   115.09;
                     115.99
226      7-27-2020   34.04
                     112.01—
228      10-13-2020  112.11;
                     112.99
229      10-26-2020  31.05
230      12-21-2020  34.04
231      4-12-2021   92.02;
                     92.99
234      5-12-2021   33.01
236      6-21-2021   34.04
238      7-12-2021   34.20
239      7-12-2021   34.04
                     70.02;
237      7-26-2021   71.01;
                     71.02
241      7-26-2021   34.04
                     110.01—
                     110.11;
                     114.01—
                     114.15;
                     114.99;
242      10-13-2021  115.04;
                     116.01—
                     116.15;
                     116.99;
                     118.01—
                     118.14;
                     118.99
243      10-13-2021  34.04
                     72.03;
244      10-13-2021  72.12;
                     72.14
249      1-3-2022    34.04
                     34.15;
251      4-25-2022   34.16;
                     91.02;
                     91.45;
252      4-25-2022   34.04
254      7-25-2022   50.08
257      8-15-2022   151.08
260      8-22-2022   71.02
261      10-24-2022  34.04
262      10-24-2022  34.16
                     90.35;
264      10-24-2022  90.36;
                     90.38—
                     90.40
265      12-27-2022  34.04
266      12-27-2022  50.07
271      7-24-2023   150.01
272      9-11-2023   130.99
273      9-11-2023   130.37
278      1-1-2024    34.04
282      3-12-2024   116.11
287      9-3-2024    TSO Table III
290      11-25-2024  53.99
291      1-1-2025    34.04
                     117.01—
                     117.05;
                     117.20—
                     117.26;
292      1-13-2025   117.40—
                     117.45;
                     117.60;
                     117.61;
                     117.99
251      4-25-2025   130.35
                     150.01—
296      8-23-2025   150.10;
                     150.99
297      10-11-2025  70.04;
                     70.08
                     117.01—
                     117.05;
                     117.20—
                     117.26;
298      11-8-2025   117.40—
                     117.45;
                     117.60;
                     117.61;
                     117.99
299      1-10-2026   34.04
300      4-21-2026   116.11
301      4-21-2026   34.04;
                     34.05
                    
 
