MAYER, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2026 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 251, passed 2-23-26
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Mayer as
presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal
actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used
to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Carver County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this Minnesota
Basic Code, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION
      
31.   CITY COUNCIL
      
32.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
33.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION
Section
   
30.01   Optional Plan A government
   
30.02   Elections
§ 30.01 OPTIONAL PLAN A GOVERNMENT.
   In accordance with M.S. Chapter 412, as it may be amended from time to time,
the city shall be governed under the plan of government known as “Optional Plan
A.” As provided by statute, the city shall be governed by the Council composed
of the Mayor and four Council members.
('82 Code, § 2.111)
§ 30.02 ELECTIONS.
   A regular city election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November in every even-numbered year. Two Council members shall be
elected for four-year terms at each election. The Mayor shall be elected for a
two-year term at each election.
('82 Code, § 2.121)
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL
Section
Meetings
   
31.01   Regular meetings
   
31.02   Special and adjourned meetings
   
31.03   Location of meetings
   
31.04   Compensation
Hearings
   
31.15   Conduct
   
31.16   Notice required
   
31.17   Opportunity to be heard
   
31.18   Adoption of rules
   
31.19   Summary record
MEETINGS
§ 31.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the second and fourth
Mondays of each calendar month. The time of the meeting shall be set by the
Council at the first meeting in January. Any regular meeting falling upon a
holiday shall be rescheduled and held at the time and place set by the Council.
All meetings, including special and adjourned meetings, shall be held at City
Hall unless otherwise set by motion duly made and passed at a Council meeting.
('82 Code, § 2.311) (Am. Ord. 111, passed 12-13-04)
§ 31.02 SPECIAL AND ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   The Council may, at any regular meeting, establish a date, time and place
for holding an adjourned or special meeting. At other times, special meetings
may be called by the Mayor or by any two members of the Council by writing and
filed with the City Clerk, who shall then mail or deliver a notice to each
Council member of the time and place of the meeting at least 24 hours before
the meeting. Notice of any special meeting called at the time of a regular
meeting shall be posted at the City Hall and two other of the most public
places in the city, and when time permits, given to the official newspaper.
Written notice of any special meeting shall be posted giving the date, time,
place and purpose of the meeting at least three days before the meeting.
Written notice shall be mailed at least three days before the meeting to anyone
who has filed a written request for notice of special meetings. In calculating
the three days, if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday,
the next regular business day shall be counted as the third day.
('82 Code, § 2.312) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
§ 31.03 LOCATION OF MEETINGS.
   All meetings, including special and adjourned meetings, shall be held at the
Mayer Community Center, except that the Council may adjourn a meeting to some
other place, or hold a special meeting at some other place for the convenience
of the public or where the nature of the matter under consideration makes it
reasonably necessary to consider the matter at some other place.
('82 Code, § 2.313)
§ 31.04 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council members shall be compensated at a rate as set
forth from time to time by ordinance.
   (B)   Unless a later date is established in any ordinance changing the
salary of the Mayor and of the Council, no change in salary enacted, pursuant
to the authority granted in M.S. § 415.11, as it may be amended from time to
time, shall take effect until after the next succeeding municipal election, and
until that date the salaries of the Mayor and of the Council shall remain as
last previously established.
('82 Code, § 2.323)
HEARINGS
§ 31.15 CONDUCT.
   Unless otherwise provided in this code or by law, every public hearing
required by law, ordinance or resolution to be held on any legislative or
administrative matter shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
('82 Code, § 2.211)
§ 31.16 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   At least ten days mailed notice of every hearing shall be given to all
persons entitled to notice by law, ordinance or resolution, except that
published or posted notice may be given where permitted by law, ordinance or
resolution. Personal notice may be given in lieu of mailed or published notice,
and shall be given when required. The notice shall state the time, place and
purpose of the meeting. Failure to give the notice or defects in it shall not
invalidate the proceedings if a good faith effort was made to give the notice
required, if due to special circumstances giving the notice was impractical or
impossible, or if the person not receiving notice or receiving defective notice
was not prejudiced thereby.
('82 Code, § 2.212)
§ 31.17 OPPORTUNITY TO BE HEARD.
   At the hearing, each party in interest shall have an opportunity to be heard
and to present evidence as is relevant to the hearing.
('82 Code, § 2.213)
§ 31.18 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   The body charged with conduct of any hearing may adopt rules governing the
conduct of hearings, records to be made and other matters as it may deem
necessary or the proper conduct of hearings to be held by it.
('82 Code, § 2.214)
§ 31.19 SUMMARY RECORD.
   Upon the disposition of any matter after hearing, the body conducting the
hearing shall cause to be prepared a written summary of its findings and
decisions and enter the summary in the official minutes of meetings.
('82 Code, § 2.215)
CHAPTER 32: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
32.01   City Clerk and City Treasurer
   
32.02   Annual audit
   
32.03   Bonds may be required
   
32.04   City Administrator
§ 32.01 CITY CLERK AND CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 412.581, as it may be amended
from time to time, separate offices of City Clerk and City Treasurer are hereby
established. The duties of each office shall be as provided by law.
   (B)   The Clerk, with the consent of the Council, may appoint and remove a
Deputy Clerk to perform the duties of the Clerk under the supervision of the
Clerk. The Treasurer, with the consent of the Council, may appoint and remove a
Deputy Treasurer to perform the duties of the Treasurer under the supervision
of the Treasurer.
   (C)   The combined office of the Clerk-Treasurer is abolished.
('82 Code, §§ 2.112 and 2.113) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99; Am. Ord. 118,
passed 9-12-05)
§ 32.02 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   There shall be an annual audit of the city’s financial affairs by the state
auditor or a public accountant in accordance with minimum auditing procedures
prescribed by the state auditor.
(Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
§ 32.03 BONDS MAY BE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Council may require any officer or employee to furnish a bond
conditioned upon the faithful exercise of the duties of the officer or employee
and the proper application of, in payment upon demand of, all monies officially
received by the officer or employee. Unless otherwise prescribed by law, the
amount of bond may be fixed by the Council. The bonds furnished by the Clerk
shall be corporate surety bonds.
('82 Code, § 2.221) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
   (B)   The Council may require that the officer or employee pay the bond
premium, or it may, by any appropriate means, provide for the payment from city
funds of the premium on the official bond of any officer or employee of the
city.
('82 Code, § 2.222)
§ 32.04 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Establishment of position. The position of City Administrator for the
City of Mayer, Minnesota, is hereby established. The City Administrator shall
be the chief administrator for the City of Mayer. The position of City
Administrator as previously existing is hereby ratified.
   (B)   Appointment; removal. The City Administrator shall be appointed by a
majority of the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed from the
position by affirmative action by a majority of the full Council with or
without cause. The Council may enter into an employment contract with the City
Administrator.
   (C)   Qualifications. The City Administrator shall be selected solely on the
basis of the person’s executive and administrative qualifications, experience,
formal education, and knowledge of accepted practices pertaining to the duties
of the position.
   (D)   Direction. The City Administrator shall be subject to the supervision
and direction of the Mayor and the Council as a collective body pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes and consistent with applicable laws. The Council shall, at
least once annually, undertake a review of the City Administrator’s
performance.
   (E)   Functions; duties. The City Administrator shall be the chief
administrative officer of the city, and shall be responsible for the proper
administration of all affairs of the city; shall oversee and direct the
operations of all departments, divisions, and offices of the city except as
otherwise provided by law. In fulfilling the responsibilities of the position
of the City Administrator, the City Administrator shall be empowered and
required in general to do as follows:
      (1)   Supervise and direct the administration of all departments,
divisions, offices, municipal functions, and services under the control of the
Council, except as otherwise provided by law.
      (2)   Develop and issue administrative policies, rules, regulations and
procedures necessary to ensure the proper management of all departments,
divisions, and offices.
      (3)   Enforce all laws, city ordinance provisions, and resolutions of the
city and, as necessary, make recommendations for revisions or additions.
      (4)   Attend and participate in all discussions at all meetings of the
Council and other bodies as required. Prepare the agenda for Council meetings
with supporting materials and recommend action to be taken. The City
Administrator shall represent the city at all functions as appropriate and not
in conflict with the prerogatives of the Mayor and the Council.
      (5)   Prepare and submit an annual budget to the Council and administer
it after receiving Council approval.
      (6)   Administer and manage the finances of the city subject to Council
approval.
      (7)   Advise the Council as to the financial condition of the city.
      (8)   Supervise city employees and direct all personnel matters as
provided for by the personnel policies established by the Council. Oversee
planning and zoning issues.
      (9)   Recommend and submit to the Council for consideration of:
         (a)   Approval or disapproval of employment promotions, transfers,
suspensions, discipline or removal of city employees.
         (b)   Wages, salaries and other benefits.
         (c)   Hiring of new employees including recruitment, screening and
interviewing of prospective employees.
      (10)   Supervise purchasing, including the making or letting of purchases
and contracts in accordance with policies established by the Council and
applicable laws; provide for the receipt of estimates, quotations, and sealed
bids and submit to the Council as appropriate.
      (11)   Monitor all consultant and contract work performed for the city.
      (12)   Coordinate the City Attorney’s activities for the city.
      (13)   Recommend the adoption of such measures as may be necessary or
expedient for the health, safety, and welfare of the community or for the
improvement of the organization and operation of municipal government.
      (14)   Prepare and/or provide periodic reports, summaries, information,
and recommendations relating to municipal services, projects, and issues for
sumittal to the Council.
      (15)   Perform such other duties as may be placed under the City
Administrator’s jurisdiction by Council action, job description or as required
by law.
   (F)   General supervision. No member of the Council or the Mayor shall
interfere with, or prevent the City Administrator from exercising the City
Administrator’s own good faith judgment in the administration of the city.
Except for the purpose of inquiry, no member of the Council or the Mayor shall
individually dictate to or exercise control over the administration of the
city, and no member shall give orders to any department head or employee except
through a majority vote of the Council.
(Ord. 139, passed 8-27-07)
CHAPTER 33: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Additional offices and employees
Police Department
   
33.10   Officers; police protection
Fire Department
   
33.15   Volunteer Department; members
   
33.16   Fire Chief; selection and duties
   
33.17   Assistant Fire Chief; selection and duties
   
33.18   Training Officer
   
33.19   Duties of Department
Planning Commission
   
33.40   Policy
   
33.41   Establishment; members
   
33.42   Rules and records; expenditures
   
33.43   Powers and duties
Parks and Recreation Commission
   
33.50   Establishment of Commission
   
33.51   Membership
   
33.52   Organization; meetings
   
33.53   Powers and duties
Street Department
   
33.60   Establishment; members and duties
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 33.01 ADDITIONAL OFFICES AND EMPLOYEES.
   In addition to the departments, boards, commissions, agencies and other
offices created by this chapter or other provisions of this code, the Council
may create additional offices and may designate other employees and agents as
may be necessary or helpful to the efficient governance of the city and
operation and maintenance of the public facilities.
('82 Code, § 2.491)
Cross-reference:
   Building Department, see §
150.04
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.10 OFFICERS; POLICE PROTECTION.
   The Council may hire the Chief of Police and other police officers as it may
deem necessary. In lieu of hiring the Chief of Police and other police
officers, the Council may enter into an agreement for the provision of police
protection to the city by any appropriate law enforcement agency, and any
existing agreement is hereby continued until modified or to terminated in the
proper manner.
('82 Code, § 2.411)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.15 VOLUNTEER DEPARTMENT; MEMBERS.
   (A)   There shall be a city volunteer Fire Department.
('82 Code, § 2.421)
   (B)   The Fire Department shall consist of the Fire Chief, the Assistant
Fire Chief, the Training Officer and other members as may be determined. All
members of the Department shall be able-bodied, not less than 18 years of age,
and shall be a high school graduate or have an equivalent general education
diploma. Members shall be appointed by the Fire Chief, subject to confirmation
by the City Council. Firefighters shall continue as members of the Volunteer
Fire Department during good behavior until retirement, but may be removed by
the City Council for cause after a public hearing.
('82 Code, § 2.242)
§ 33.16 FIRE CHIEF; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the Department shall select one of their members to be the
Fire Chief. Selection shall be approved or disapproved by the Council. The Fire
Chief shall serve until another Chief is elected by members of the Department,
unless earlier removed by Council. The Fire Chief shall have full control of
and over the Department and shall have other powers and duties, and keep
records, as are prescribed by law, and as the Council may determine.
('82 Code, § 2.243)
§ 33.17 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the Department shall select one member as the Assistant Fire
Chief. Selection shall be approved or disapproved by the Council. The Assistant
Fire Chief shall serve until another Assistant Fire Chief is selected by
members of the Department, unless earlier removed by the Council. In case of
the absence or disability of the Fire Chief, the Assistant Fire Chief shall
perform all the functions and exercise all the authority of the Chief.
('82 Code, § 2.244)
§ 33.18 TRAINING OFFICER.
   The members of the Department shall select one of their members as the
Training Officer. Selection shall be approved or disapproved by the Council.
The Training Officer shall serve until another Training Officer is selected by
members of the Department, unless earlier removed by the Council. The office of
the Training Officer may be held by any member of the Department, including the
Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief. The Training Officer shall have duties
respecting the training of fire fighters, fire prevention, fire fighting and
rescue, as may be established by the Fire Chief.
('82 Code, § 2.245)
§ 33.19 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT.
   Members in the Fire Department shall perform the duties relating to the
extinguishment and prevention of fires and protection of life and property from
fires and have other powers and duties relating to fire fighting and fire
prevention as are prescribed by law and as the Council may determine.
('82 Code, § 2.246)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.40 POLICY.
   The Council desires to encourage sound and harmonious growth of the
community and its environment, to encourage efficiency and economy in the
provision of facilities and services, to ensure maximum return for expenditures
of public funds, and to avoid errors and waste resulting from unplanned and
uncoordinated development. To these ends and for these purposes, the Council
finds it necessary that there should be prepared and maintained in current
form, a comprehensive plan with related studies, statements of policies,
regulations and ordinances to guide the development of the city. Pursuant to
the authority granted by statute, the Council hereby intends to provide for
comprehensive municipal planning activities or guiding the future development
and improvement of the city.
('82 Code, § 2.441)
§ 33.41 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERS.
   (A)   There shall be the Planning Commission of the city.
('82 Code, § 2.442)
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by
the Council from among the residents of the city and neighboring townships. One
member shall be ex-officio, to be appointed by the Council from its own
membership, to serve as liaison with the Planning Commission. Members other
than ex-officio shall be appointed from among persons in a position to
represent the general public interest, and no person shall be appointed with
private or personal interests likely to conflict with the general public
interest.
('82 Code, § 2.443)
   (C)   Terms of office for members other than ex-officio shall commence on
February 1 and shall be for three years, or until the member's successor is
appointee and qualified. The ex-officio members shall serve at the pleasure of
the Council. Ex-officio membership on the Commission shall terminate upon
termination of the office from which ex-officio membership is derived.
('82 Code, § 2.444)
   (D)   At the first regular meeting of each calendar year, or as soon as
thereafter may be done, the Council shall appoint members for any term which
will then expire.
('82 Code, § 2.445)
   (E)   When the private or personal interest of a member is involved in any
matter before the Commission, the member shall not take part in action on the
matter. If the member fails to do so, the member may be disqualified by the
Chairperson of the Commission.
('82 Code, § 2.446)
   (F)   Any member, for just cause and upon written charges, may be removed
from office by a two-thirds vote of the entire Council. The member shall be
entitled to a public hearing before the vote is taken. Any member may be
removed for nonattendance at Commission meetings, without action of the
Council, according to rules adopted by the Commission.
('82 Code, § 2.447)
   (G)   The Chairperson of the Commission shall notify the Council promptly of
any vacancies occurring upon the Commission. The Council shall fill any vacancy
for the unexpired portion of the original term of appointment.
('82 Code, § 2.448)
   (H)   The Commission shall elect the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from
among those of its members who are not ex-officio members, and may create other
offices as they may determine. It shall provide itself with a secretary, either
by election from among its members or by appointment of an officer or employee
of the city who is not a member of the Commission. Terms of all officers shall
be for one year, or until their successors are qualified. Any officer shall be
eligible for reelection.
('82 Code, § 2.449)
   (I)   All members, including the Chairperson and the ex-officio members,
shall be entitled to vote and shall otherwise have full rights and privileges
of a member of the Commission. A secretary who is not a member of the
Commission shall not be entitled to vote or to exercise the other rights and
privileges of a member.
('82 Code, § 2.450)
   (J)   Members of the Commission may receive payment for their services upon
the Commission. The amount of the payment shall be established by the Council
by resolution from time to time. Members may receive necessary travel and other
expenses while on official business for the Commission, as approved by the
Council.
('82 Code, § 2.455)
§ 33.42 RULES AND RECORDS; EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Commission shall adopt rules for its governance and for the
transaction of its business.
('82 Code, § 2.451)
   (B)   The Commission shall keep a record of attendance at its meetings and
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations showing each member on
each question requiring a vote including whether the member was absent or
abstained. The records of the Commission shall be a public record.
('82 Code, § 2.452)
   (C)   Within limits set by appropriations or other funds made available,
subject to approval of the Council, the Commission may incur expenses as it may
deem necessary and proper for the conduct of its affairs.
('82 Code, § 2.454)
§ 33.43 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The powers and duties of the Commission shall be, in general:
      (1)   To acquire and maintain in current form, basic information and
background data as is necessary to an understanding of past trends, present
conditions and forces at work, to cause changes in these conditions;
      (2)   To prepare and keep current a comprehensive general plan for
meeting present requirements and future needs as may be foreseen;
      (3)   To establish principles and policies for guiding action affecting
development in the city and its environs;
      (4)    To prepare and recommend to the Council, ordinances, regulations
and other proposals promoting orderly development along lines indicated by the
comprehensive plan;
      (5)   To determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements for the comprehensive plan and the ordinances;
      (6)   To keep the Council and the general public informed and advised as
to planning and development matters;
      (7)   To conduct hearings as may be required to gather information
necessary for the drafting, establishment and maintenance of the comprehensive
plan and ordinances and regulations related to it, and to establish public
committees or the pose of collecting and compiling information necessary to the
plan, or for the purpose of promoting the accomplishment of the plan in whose
or in part; and
      (8)   To perform other duties which may be lawfully assigned to it, or
which may have a bearing on the preparation or accomplishment of the plan.
('82 Code, § 2.456)
   (B)   The Commission, city employees, or agents may in the performance of
official utilities enter upon lands and make examinations or surveys in the
same manner as authorized city agents or employees, and shall have other powers
as are required for the performance of official functions in carrying out the
purposes of the provisions of this code relating to the Planning Commission.
('82 Code, § 2.457)
   (C)   In connection with its duties, and within the limit of its funds, the
Commission may request the city to make, cause to be made or obtain, maps,
aerial photograph, surveys, special studies and other data reasonably necessary
to the Commission in carrying out its comprehensive municipal planning
activities. Its activities may include, without limitation, study of the
location, condition and adequacy of housing, commercial and industrial
facilities, economic development, parks, playgrounds and other recreational
facilities, schools, public and private utilities, traffic to transportation,
parking and other matters in furtherance of its planning facilities.
('82 Code, § 2.458)
   (D)   After the Council has adopted subdivision regulations, any subdivision
plat submitted to the Council for approval shall, prior to consideration by the
Council, be referred to the Planning Commission for review and recommendation.
Any plat so referred shall be returned to the Council by the Commission with
its recommendations within 30 days. If the Commission fails to act within that
time, the Council may proceed with its consideration of the matter.
('82 Code, § 2.459)
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 150
**** PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION ****
§ 33.50 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   There shall be a Parks and Recreation Commission of the city.
(Ord. 112, passed 1-24-05)
§ 33.51 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall consist of five members who are
residents of the city, except one member may be a non-resident who is the owner
of property within the city on which real estate taxes are paid. One of the
members shall be a member of the City Council.
   (A)   All members shall be appointed by the City Council and may be removed
by a three-fifths vote of the Council.
   (B)   (1)   Of the Parks and Recreation Commissioners first appointed, other
than the City Council member, one shall be appointed for a one-year term, one
shall be appointed for a two-year term, and two shall be appointed for a three-
year term. All terms shall expire on February 1 of the appropriate year. Their
successors shall be appointed for terms of three years, expiring February 1 of
the appropriate year. Both original and successive appointees shall hold their
offices until their successors shall be appointed and qualified.
      (2)   The City Council member shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.
City Council members on the Commission shall terminate upon termination of the
office from which Council membership is derived.
      (3)   Every appointed member shall before entering upon the discharge of
his or her duties take an oath that he or she shall faithfully discharge the
duties of his or her office.
      (4)   Compensation shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 112, passed 1-24-05; Am. Ord. 164, passed 5-24-10)
§ 33.52 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its appointed
members for a term of one year; and the Commission may create and fill such
other offices as it may determine. A Commission member shall act as Secretary
of the Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and
shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, and findings, which
record shall be a public record. Expenditures of the Commission shall be within
amounts appropriated for the purpose by the City Council. The Commission shall
submit to the City Council a monthly report of its work during the preceding
month.
(Ord. 112, passed 1–24-05)
§ 33.53 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall be the park and recreational
planning and maintenance advisory agency for the City of Mayer. The duties of
the Commission are as follows, but not exclusively:
   (A)   Advise the City Council in park acquisition, development and
abandonment matters.
   (B)   Advise the City Council in regard to recreational programming.
   (C)   Recommend to the City Council rules and regulations for use of any
park, recreational or leisure facilities.
   (D)   Maintain the City of Mayer Master Parks Plan.
   (E)   Consider proper names for park and recreation areas and make such
recommendations to the City Council.
   (F)   Conduct studies and investigations as specifically directed or
delegated by the City Council.
   (G)   Represent the City Council at appropriate meetings.
   (H)   Review special requests for the use of recreational facilities for the
City Council.
(Ord. 112, passed 1-24-05)
STREET DEPARTMENT
§ 33.60 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   There shall be a Street Department.
   (B)   The Street Department shall be under the jurisdiction of the Street
Commissioner, who shall be appointed by the Council. The Commissioner, and all
employees of the Department, shall receive compensation as the Council may fix,
and serve at the pleasure of the Council. The Street Department shall perform
the duties respecting streets, alleys, sidewalks and other areas within the
city, as the Council may provide.
('82 Code, § 2.481)
Cross-reference:
   Assessable current services, see §
93.01
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   Purpose
   
34.02   Interpretation and effect
   
34.03   Definitions
   
34.04   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
34.05   Powers and duties of Director
   
34.06   Local emergencies
   
34.07   Emergency regulations
   
34.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
§ 34.01 PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, from sabotage or hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to insure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the
public peace, health and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the
people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which require that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 34.02 INTERPRETATION AND EFFECT.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this chapter, the workers' compensation law, or any
pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 34.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of
nature or from sabotage, hostile action or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 34.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government, the Emergency Management
Organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the Mayor for an indefinite term and may be removed at any time.
The Director shall serve with a salary and shall be paid necessary expenses.
The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration and operation of the emergency preparedness organization,
subject to the direction and control of the Mayor.
§ 34.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director, with the consent of the Mayor, shall represent the city
on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The Director
shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions
of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in an
emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall present these
agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements shall be
consistent with the state emergency plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions,
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the state and city emergency plans, the Director
shall institute training programs and public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the city emergency plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to the
maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city departments
and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and
extend services and facilities to the city's Emergency Management Organization
and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or agency in
cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning and
programming of emergency activities as will involve the utilization of the
facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 34.06 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
§ 34.07 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations consistent
with applicable federal or state law or regulations respecting the conduct of
persons and the use of property during emergencies, the repair, maintenance and
safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health, fire and safety
regulations, drills or practice periods required for preliminary training, and
all other matters which are required to protect public safety, health and
welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing, shall
be dated, shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Administrator. A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulation and their availability for
inspection at the City Administrator's Office shall be conspicuously posted at
the front of the City Hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places
in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution. By
resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time, and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The Emergency Management Organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
Service Districts
   
35.01   Establishment of districts
   
35.02   Urban service district
   
35.03   Rural service district
   
35.04   Lands included within rural service district
   
35.05   Transfer from rural service district to urban service district
   
35.06   Benefit ratio; tax rate
   
35.07   Annual review
   
35.08   Connection charges
   
35.09   Services provided
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission, see §§
33.40 through
33.43
   Subdivisions, see
Chapter 151
   Zoning, see
Chapter 152
SERVICE DISTRICTS
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 272.67, the City of Mayer hereby
divides the area within its municipal limits into an urban service district and
a rural service district constituting separate taxing districts for the purpose
of all municipal property taxes except those levied for the payment of bonds
and judgments and interest thereon.
(Ord. 137, passed 7-23-07)
§ 35.02 URBAN SERVICE DISTRICT.
   The urban service district shall include all land within the boundaries of
the City of Mayer which are not included in the rural service district
established by this subchapter.
(Ord. 62A, passed 10-21-82; Am. Ord. 137, passed 7-23-07)
§ 35.03 RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The rural service district shall include only such unplatted lands,
which need not be contiguous to one another, as in the judgment of the City
Council at the time of the adoption of Ord. No. 137 are rural in character, and
are not developed for commercial, industrial, or urban residential purposes,
and for these reasons are not benefitted to the same degree as other lands by
municipal services financed by general taxation.
   (B)   The City Council by amendment to this subchapter in the future, may
designate lands outside the City of Mayer which, if annexed, shall be included
within the rural service district.
(Ord. 62A, passed 10-21-82; Am. Ord. 137, passed 7-23-07)
§ 35.04 LANDS INCLUDED WITHIN THE RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   The following lands are hereby designated to be included in the rural
service district of the City of Mayer:
   (A)   PID No. 50-002-0110 (Benjamin and Lila Quaas Property).
   (B)   PID No. 50-006-0330 (William and Sandra Drew Property).
(Ord. 62A, passed 10-21-82; Am. Ord. 137, passed 7-23-07)
§ 35.05 TRANSFER FROM RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT TO URBAN SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Whenever any parcel of land included in the rural service district is
platted, in whole or in part; or whenever application is made for a permit for
construction fo a commercial, industrial, residential, or agricultural building
or improvement, except for the purpose of repairing or replacing a pre-existing
structure; or whenever such improvement or building is commenced without a
permit; or whenever, at the request of the owner, any parcel is provided
additional municipal services such as sewer, water, streets, or the like; the
City Council shall make and enter an order by resolution transferring such
parcel or any part thereof from the rural service district to the urban service
district.
   (B)   Grading of land is not considered as an improvement providing such
grading is limited to that which is required to minimize storm water drainage
problems and provided grading areas are placed into agricultural use or
reseeded within one year. Any new fill placed on the land shall be graded and
seeded within one year.
(Ord. 62A, passed 10-21-82; Am. Ord. 137, passed 7-23-07)
§ 35.06 BENEFIT RATIO; TAX RATE.
   (A)   It is the judgment of the City Council that the approximate ratio that
exists between the benefits resulting from the tax supported municipal services
to parcels of land of like market value, situated in the rural service district
and in the urban service district, respectively, is 22.52%. However, in no
event shall the tax rate for the rural service district be less than what the
tax rate for such parcel would be if taxed by the township in which the parcel
is located. Any taxes levied for the payments of bonds and judgments and
interest thereon shall be in addition to such tax.
   (B)   By amendment to this subchapter, the benefit ratio may be changed, and
lands may be added to or removed from the rural service district, but not
amendment shall be required to remove land by the procedure provided in §
35.05.
(Ord. 62A, passed 10-21-82; Am. Ord. 137, passed 7-23-07)
§ 35.07 ANNUAL REVIEW.
   Once each year the City Council shall review the status of all lands in the
rural service district to determine whether such lands continue to qualify for
inclusion in the rural service district and shall also review the tax ratio
applicable to such lands as determined under §
35.06.
(Ord. 137, passed 7-23-07)
§ 35.08 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   At such time as a parcel of land is transferred from the rural service
district to the urban service district and/or a structure on such parcel is
connected to the sewer and water system of the City of Mayer, the owner of such
parcel shall pay to the City of Mayer such connection and availability charges
of the city that are then in effect at the time of such connection.
(Ord. 137, passed 7-23-07)
Cross-reference:
   Cost of connections, see §
51.40
§ 35.09 SERVICES PROVIDED.
   Except for fire, police and planning services, the City of Mayer will
provide no other services to the lands in the rural service district beyond
those customarily provided by the township in which the lands are located.
(Ord. 137, passed 7-23-07)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE
Section
Uniform System of Fees, Charges, Costs and Rates
   
36.01   Authorization and establishment of fees
   
36.02   Fee schedule
   
36.03   Conflict
   
36.04   Non-exclusivity
Cross-reference:
   General licensing regulations, see
Ch. 110
**** UNIFORM SYSTEM OF FEES, CHARGES, COSTS AND RATES ****
§ 36.01 AUTHORIZATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF FEES.
   The City of Mayer is authorized by law and does hereby establish and impose
certain fees, charges, costs and rates for licenses, permits, applications,
information, services and other matters required or provided by the city.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-23-05; Am. Ord. 127, passed 12-17-05; Am. Ord. 132, passed
12-11-06; Am. Ord. 190, passed 1-13-14; Am. Ord. 198, passed 1-26-15; Am. Ord.
213, passed 1-9-17; Am. Ord. 217, passed 1-8-18; Am. Ord. 229, passed 1-13-20;
Am. Ord. 232, passed 12-28-20)
§ 36.02 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The fees, charges, costs and rates for such licenses, permits,
applications, information, services and other matters are adopted as set forth
on Schedule A to Ord. 248, passed 1-27-25. These fees and charges are deemed
appropriate and reasonable. Such fee schedule may be amended or revised from
time to time by subsequent ordinance adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   The fees and charges shall be collected by city staff as required and
collected prior to the issuance of a license or permit or acceptance of an
application as the case may be. Fees are not refundable unless otherwise
provided by ordinance or Council action.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-23-05; Am. Ord. 127, passed 12-17-05; Am. Ord. 132, passed
12-11-06; Am. Ord. 142, passed 12-10-07; Am. Ord. 153, passed 12-8-08; Am. Ord.
162, passed 1-11-10; Am. Ord. 171, passed 1-10-11; Am. Ord. 176, passed 1-9-12;
Am. Ord. 190, passed 1-13-14; Am. Ord. 198, passed 1-26-15; Am. Ord. 213,
passed 1-9-17; Am. Ord. 217, passed 1-8-18; Am. Ord. 229, passed 1-13-20; Am.
Ord. 232, passed 12-28-20; Am. Ord. 233, passed 12-13-21; Am. Ord. 237, passed
1-23-23; Am. Ord. 238, passed 4-24-23; Am. Ord. 242, passed 1-8-24; Am. Ord.
248, passed 1-27-25)
§ 36.03 CONFLICT.
    In the event of any conflict between this subchapter and any other
provisions of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Mayer, this subchapter
shall control.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-23-05; Am. Ord. 127, passed 12-17-05; Am. Ord. 132, passed
12-11-06; Am. Ord. 190, passed 1-13-14; Am. Ord. 198, passed 1-26-15; Am. Ord.
213, passed 1-9-17; Am. Ord. 217, passed 1-8-18; Am. Ord. 229, passed 1-13-20;
Am. Ord. 232, passed 12-28-20)
§ 36.04 NON-EXCLUSIVITY.
    This subchapter shall not limit or preclude any other fees, charges, costs
or rates as required by the Code of Ordinances of the City of Mayer or as
otherwise established by ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-23-05; Am. Ord. 127, passed 12-17-05; Am. Ord. 132, passed
12-11-06; Am. Ord. 190, passed 1-13-14; Am. Ord. 198, passed 1-26-15; Am. Ord.
213, passed 1-9-17; Am. Ord. 217, passed 1-8-18; Am. Ord. 229, passed 1-13-20;
Am. Ord. 232, passed 12-28-20)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
      
54.   DRAIN TILE CONNECTIONS
      
55.   STORMWATER UTILITY
      
56.   AREA CHARGES
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Disposal by burning prohibited
   
50.02   Proper disposal
   
50.03   Accumulation prohibited
   
50.04   Scattering prohibited
   
50.05   Garbage collection required; use of city approved hauler or collector
required; payment by owner of premises for charges required; penalty for
violation
§ 50.01 DISPOSAL BY BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall dispose of any garbage or other refuse by open burning, nor
shall any person owning or having control of any premises cause or permit the
same, in the city, except upon application to and approval by the appropriate
state agency, and in the manner and under the conditions and restrictions
established by law and administrative regulation.
('82 Code, § 8.211) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Open burning, see §
93.03
§ 50.02 PROPER DISPOSAL.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any refuse upon any street,
alley or other public property, or upon any private property, except in proper
containers for collection. No person shall throw or deposit refuse in any
stream or other body of water.
('82 Code, § 8.212) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause or allow any unsanitary or unsightly accumulation of
refuse upon any property owned or occupied by that person.
('82 Code, § 8.213) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 SCATTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep or haul, or allow to be kept on or hauled from premises
owned by that person, refuse in a manner that it may be carried or deposited by
the elements upon any other premises.
('82 Code, § 8.214) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 50.05 GARBAGE COLLECTION REQUIRED; USE OF CITY APPROVED HAULER OR COLLECTOR
REQUIRED; PAYMENT BY OWNER OF PREMISES FOR CHARGES REQUIRED; PENALTY FOR
VIOLATION .
   Every person who owns or occupies a residential dwelling, including a house,
apartment house, multiple residential dwelling, manufactured home, or any other
place of residence, and every person who owns or occupies a commercial
establishment, must have weekly collection or disposal of garbage or other
refuse. Residential owners or occupants must use the services of the hauler or
collector approved by the city. The owner of each residence shall be liable for
the payment of the service charge, whether or not the owner occupies the
residence. Any violation of this section shall constitute a petty misdemeanor
offense and subject the violator to a fine or administrative citation of a
maximum penalty of $300 for each occurrence.
(Am. Ord. 160, passed 9-14-09)
CHAPTER 51: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.01   Applicability
   
51.02   Utility Superintendent
   
51.03   Information required
   
51.04   Authority; access to premises
   
51.05   Additional requirements
   
51.06   Damages and violations
City Water and Sewer Accounts, Rates, and Collection of Delinquent Charges
   
51.20   Accounts
   
51.21   Billing
   
51.22   Utility rate schedule
   
51.23   Delinquent accounts
   
51.24   Other remedies
Connection Requirements
   
51.40   Cost of connection
   
51.41   Connection when service available
   
51.42   Notice; city authority
   
51.43   Installation prior to street surfacing
   
51.44   Permit required; application and fee; outdoor water and sewer
connections and inspections
Cross-reference:
   Connection requirements, see §
53.06
   Separate service connection required, see §
52.01
   Zoning, see
Chapter 152
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 51.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions Chapters
51,
52, and
53 respecting municipal utility service, including amendments which may from
time to time be enacted shall be considered a part of the terms of service for
every service customer and every owner, lessee and occupant of premises served.
Every customer served and every owner, lessee and occupant of premises served
shall be considered to express consent to and to be bound by all requirements.
('82 Code, § 3.111)
§ 51.02 UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Utility Superintendent shall, subject to the direction of the Council,
enforce all provisions of this chapter relating to the city water and sewer
systems and private sewage disposal systems, except for duties conferred upon
the Building Inspector. Any powers and duties conferred in this chapter upon
either of them may be exercised by any other employee of the city when so
authorized by them.
('82 Code, § 3.112)
§ 51.03 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   The owner, lessee, occupant or other person in charge of any premises, or
the applicant for any municipal utility service, shall provide the city with
information as may be reasonably required related to the provision of or the
use of municipal utility services upon the premises. No person shall willfully
fail to provide information or willfully falsify information.
('82 Code, § 3.113) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 AUTHORITY; ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The customer or other person in control of any premises connected to the
city water supply system or served by the city sewer system shall permit
authorized meter readers to read meters at reasonable hours of any day, shall
permit authorized employees or agents of the city to have access to all parts
of any building or premises connected with the city water supply system or the
city storm or sanitary sewer system at times as may reasonably be necessary for
repairs and at reasonable hours of any day for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measuring, sampling and testing. If access cannot be obtained to
read a meter, the customer's bill may be estimated. Refusal to permit access or
continued inability to obtain access to the premises shall be grounds for
discontinuance of service. In such cases, service shall be discontinued in the
same manner as service is discontinued for failure to pay amounts owed.
('82 Code, § 3.114)
§ 51.05 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector may establish and enforce any additional
requirements not contained in this title as may be necessary or convenient for
the adequate, safe, efficient and healthful provision of municipal utility
services and of private sewage disposal and for protection of the municipal
utility service facilities. No person shall violate any requirements, or any
requirements of law or any other agency respecting municipal utility service or
private sewage disposal systems.
('82 Code, § 3.115)
   (B)   The Building Inspector may, in writing, vary any requirements
contained in this title in favor of alternate methods, designs and requirements
when, in the judgment of the Inspector, the alternate methods, designs and
requirements will fully provide for the adequate, safe, efficient and healthful
provision of city water and sewer service and private sewage disposal
facilities.
('82 Code, § 3.116)
§ 51.06 DAMAGES AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unauthorized acts. No person shall make any municipal service
connection, fail to make any required connection or use, damage or interfere
with any municipal utility installation contrary to the requirements of this
code. No person shall install or use any private sewage disposal system
contrary to the requirements of this title.
('82 Code, § 3.121)
   (B)   Liability for damages. Any person violating any provision of this
title relating to any municipal utility or any person who negligently or
intentionally causes damage to any municipal utility or appurtenance thereto,
shall be liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned thereby.
In addition, the customer and owner may each also be held liable if the
expense, loss or damage could have been avoided by due care on their part.
('82 Code, § 3.122)
   (C)   Correction of violations.
      (1)   Upon finding any violation of any provision of this title relating
to municipal utility services or private sewage disposal facilities, the
Superintendent, Building Inspector shall notify the Clerk. The Clerk shall
serve notice upon the occupant or other person in charge of the premises, and
upon the owner if not occupying the premises, specifying the nature of each
violation and the work which is required to be done. The notice shall also
specify the reasonable time considering the nature and amount of work to be
done, and the nature of the violations, within which each violation or all the
violations must be remedied. If each violation is not corrected within the time
specified, the official reporting the violation may cause the violation to be
corrected at the expense of the occupant or other person in charge or the owner
or both.
      (2)   Any person who fails to correct any violation when required to do
so shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The provisions of this
section shall not limit the power or of any officer or agency to act pursuant
to authority given elsewhere in this code or by law.
('82 Code, § 3.123) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
**** CITY WATER AND SEWER ACCOUNTS, RATES, AND COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT CHARGES
****
§ 51.20 ACCOUNTS.
   All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who personally, or by
their authorized agent, applied for such service. The owner shall be liable for
utility services supplied to the property, whether they are occupying the
property or not, and any unpaid charges shall be a lien upon the property.
Renters or other such occupants may be named additionally on the account to
receive bills.
(Ord. 246, passed 10-14-24)
§ 51.21 BILLING.
   Water, sewer, and storm sewer charges shall be billed on one bill as
applicable to each account. All charges for water, sewer, and storm sewer shall
be due upon receipt and considered delinquent after the first day of the
following month. All bills shall contain the title, address, and telephone
number of the official in charge of billing; the title, address and phone
number shall be clearly visible and easily readable. Bills shall be mailed to
the customers each month as soon as is practicable and specify the water
consumed and the sewer and storm sewer charges in accordance with the current
fee schedule set by ordinance of the City Council.
(Ord. 246, passed 10-14-24)
§ 51.22 UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The utility rate schedule is incorporated into the fee schedule which
is adopted by the City Council by ordinance.
   (B)   The City Council ordinance setting out the utility rate schedule shall
also establish the number of certification cycles per year. At least one
certification cycle will be timed each year to coincide with Carver County’s
requirements for certification to the following year’s taxes. Additional
certification cycles may be set in the annual rate schedule ordinance. All city
utility accounts, unless exempt for other legal reason, which have been billed
a delinquent bill and remain unpaid as of the certification cut-off date shall
have the balance on the account including in a preliminary certification list.
(Ord. 246, passed 10-14-24)
§ 51.23 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Penalties. A late payment penalty shall be assessed on all accounts
with a past-due balance. The penalty amount is specified in the fee schedule.
   (B)   Shut-off for nonpayment. Water shall not be shut off until notice and
an opportunity for a hearing before the City Council or an employee designated
by the City Council have provided to the occupant and owner of the premises
involved.
      (1)   If any bill is not paid by the due date listed on the bill, the
second bill will be mailed by first class mail and include a notice of
delinquency.
      (2)   If the second bill is not paid by the due date listed on the bill,
the third bill will be mailed by first class mail and include a shut-off
notice. The shut-off notice shall state if payment is not made by the first day
of the following month (one month after the third bill was due) water service
to the premises will be shut off for nonpayment.
      (3)   The shut-off notice shall contain the title, address, and telephone
number of the official in charge of billing; the title, address and phone
number shall be clearly visible and easily readable.
      (4)   The notice shall also state that any occupant or owner has the
right to a hearing before the water service is shut off. The owner or occupant
may be represented in person and by counsel or any other person of his or her
choosing. The owner or occupant may present orally or in writing his or her
complaint to the City Administrator. The City Administrator shall be authorized
to order continuation of the customer’s service and shall have the authority to
adjust the customer’s bill or enter into a mutually agreeable payment plan. The
City Administrator may delegate this authority at their discretion to another
staff member.
      (5)   If an occupant or owner requests a hearing, the water shall not be
shut off until the hearing process is complete.
      (6)   If a customer fails to pay and fails to request a hearing under
this part, Public Works shall place a doorhanger notice at the property stating
the date and time service will be disconnected. The date and time shall not be
less than 48 hours from when the doorhanger is placed.
   (C)   Certification for collection with taxes. Unpaid charges on accounts
shall not be certified to the County Auditor until notice and an opportunity
for a hearing have been provided to the owner of the premises involved. The
notice shall be sent by first class mail and shall state that if payment is not
made before the date for certification, the entire amount unpaid plus penalties
will be certified to the County Auditor for collection as other taxes are
collected. The notice shall also state that the occupant or owner may, before
such certification date, attend or schedule a hearing on the matter to object
to certification of unpaid utility charges.
   (D)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this subchapter if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision or this
subchapter, the City Council or any city official designated by it, may
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to procure payment.
   (E)   Optional payment before certification. The owner of the property shall
have the option of paying the balance due on the account until the date the
notice of the certification hearing is mailed. After the date the notice of
certification hearing is mailed, payments will still be accepted but will
include unpaid penalties.
   (F)   Hearing required. A hearing shall be held on the matter by the City
Council. Property owners with unpaid utility charges shall have the opportunity
to object to the certification of unpaid charges to be collected as taxes are
collected. If, after the hearing, the City Council finds that the amounts
claimed as delinquent are actually due and unpaid and that there is no legal
reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified for collection with taxes
in accordance with this section, the City Council may certify the unpaid
charges to the County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
   (G)   Hearing options. For each certification sustained, the property owner
shall have the following options after the hearing.
      (1)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll, but
without additional interest after the hearing, within ten days of the hearing
date.
      (2)   To pay the certified delinquent amount after the hearing date, but
before the county certification deadline, with interest at the rate set in the
adopted rate schedule, accrued beginning on the eleventh day following the
hearing date through the date of payment.
      (3)   To pay the certified charges as billed to them by Carver County on
their property tax statement with a collection term of one year.
   (H)   Delivery to county. Fifteen days after the hearing, the certified
roll, minus any payments, shall be delivered to Carver County.
(Ord. 246, passed 10-14-24; Am. Ord. 249, passed 6-9-25)
§ 51.24 OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to any procedures or penalties provided for in this subchapter
if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this
subchapter, the City Council or any city official designated by it may
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to procure payment and/or
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 246, passed 10-14-24)
CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.40 COST OF CONNECTION.
   The cost of connections to the city water and sanitary sewer systems,
including the cost of any necessary excavations, connections, taps,
installations of pipes, appurtenances and street repairs shall be borne by the
owner or other applicant for service. When the city has agreed to assume part
of the cost, the amount or portion of the cost to be borne by the owner or
applicant shall be an amount as is determined to be the owner’s share of the
cost.
('82 Code, § 3.151)
§ 51.41 CONNECTION WHEN SERVICE AVAILABLE.
   As soon as a service line becomes available to a property required to be
connected thereto, the owner shall connect the property within 90 days and
shall discontinue use of any other service line or facility.
('82 Code, § 3.153)
§ 51.42 NOTICE; CITY AUTHORITY.
   Whenever service for which a required connection becomes available or is
about to become available to a property, the Clerk may notify the owner of the
connection requirement. If that notice has not been given and the owner has
failed to make the required connection within the time allowed for making
connection, the Clerk shall give notice that connection must be made within a
specified time of the mailing or delivery of the notice.
('82 Code, § 3.154) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
§ 51.43 INSTALLATION PRIOR TO STREET SURFACING.
   The Council may, by resolution, require that water and sewer lines be
installed from the main property line to be served before any permanent street
surfacing is completed. Thereafter, if any property owner fails to put in the
service line, the Clerk shall give the owner notice to do so within a specified
time of the mailing or delivery of the notice. If the owner fails to install
the line, the Council may cause the line to be installed and charge the costs
against the property as a special assessment in the same manner as for
connecting the premises to the city sanitary sewer lines.
('82 Code, § 3.156) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
§ 51.44 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND FEE; OUTDOOR WATER AND SEWER
CONNECTIONS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   No person/developer shall make a connection to the city water system
line and/or sanitary sewer system line without a permit from the City of Mayer.
The application for the permit must state the location of the proposed
connection, the time when the connection(s) is to be made, and by whom the work
is to be completed. The permit will not be issued until the application is
approved by the city and until the applicant has complied with the provisions
of this code and other applicable ordinances and laws. A permit shall be issued
only to a state-licensed plumber or an established plumber exempted from having
to obtain a state license.
('82 Code, § 3.161)
   (B)   Any application for a permit to make a connection to the city water
system line and/or sanitary sewer system line shall be premature and no action
shall be taken by the city until such time that a development agreement
approved by the city is executed by the person/developer making the
application.
   (C)   All applications for water or sewer construction permits shall be made
to the city by the person employed to do the work before beginning the work
involved. The application shall be made in the form prescribed by the city. The
applicant shall state whether an assessment on the subject premises has been
made and, if so, the amount so assessed and a legal description of the premises
as originally assessed. The applicant shall submit with the application a plan
showing the course of the service pipe or drain between the connection with the
city water or sewer line and the building to be served by it. The applicant
shall submit other drawings and plans of the proposed construction as may be
required.
('82 Code, § 3.162)
   (D)   The Council shall, by resolution, establish reasonable fees for water
and sewer construction permits, and also for repair of that portion of a tarred
or hard surface street damaged by excavation. The applicant shall submit with
the application payment of the required fee. In its resolution, the Council may
provide for an annual fee which may be paid in lieu of the fee for each permit
issued. Payment of an annual fee shall not exempt any person from submitting
the required application.
('82 Code, § 3.163)
   (E)   If the proposed construction meets all requirements of this code and
all other applicable requirements, the city shall authorize issuance of the
permit. If applicable requirements are not met, the city shall reject the
application and give the applicant a written statement of the reasons for the
rejection. After an application has been approved by the city, the permit shall
be issued.
('82 Code, § 3.164)
   (F)   Tapping of any water main must be cleared through the Public Works
Superintendent. Hydrants and curb stops are to be operated by city employees
only, unless otherwise specified by Public Works.
      (1)   Water service requirements.
         (a)   House service pipe must be laid with sufficient slack to allow
not less than one foot extra length per 200 feet and in such manner as to
prevent rupture by settlement.
         (b)   Water service lines must be type “K” copper with flared fittings
and a minimum of one inch in diameter for residential installations. Type “K”
copper of one and one-half inches in diameter shall be used for runs from 150
to 300 feet. Check with Building Inspector regarding multiple family,
commercial, and industrial connections.
         (c)   All service lines over two inches will be ductile iron pipe,
having continuity straps and a hydrostatic test, and must hold 150 pounds for
one hour.
         (d)   Water service lines shall be installed at a depth of seven feet
or, if less, be sufficiently insulated to protect against freezing.
         (e)   Joints in copper tubing shall be kept to a maximum of not more
than one joint per 70 feet in length. Joints are not allowed within ten feet of
the building.
         (f)   The curb stop must be brought to proper grade.
         (g)   All joints and connections shall be left uncovered until
inspected and tested at normal water line pressure. (Service lines over two
inches in diameter inspected and tested at 150 pso.)
         (h)   No water pipe shall be connected with any pump, well, tank, or
piping that is connected with any other water supply other than the municipal
system.
         (i)   No person shall permit water from the water system to be used
for any purpose except upon the person’s own premises unless written consent is
first obtained from the city.
         (j)   No water pipe shall be laid under a garage.
         (k)   Castings are required when curb stops are located in driveways.
See city specifications for casting requirements.
         (l)   As an alternative to copper tubing set forth hereinabove, the
following material may be used for water services on private property for pipe
up to and including two inches in diameter as follows:
            1.   Polyethylene. The tubing shall be made from virgin, ultra high
molecular weight polyethylene resin meeting the requirements of Type III, Grade
P3, Class C materials as described in ASTM D-2737. Standard dimension ration
shall be SDR-9.
            2.   Pressure rating. Tubing shall be rated for 160 PSI working
pressure at 73.4 degrees Fahrenheit for water.
            3.   Workmanship. Surface shall be homogenous inside and outside
and completely free from irregularity. Random testing shall be performed at
intervals during all production runs to assure uniformity in all respects. The
tubing shall carry the National Sanitation Foundation Seal of Approval for
drinking water.
            4.   Marking. Pipe or tubing shall be marked with embossed
lettering at intervals of not more than two feet, and marking shall include
nominal size, manufacturer’s name or trademark, machine identity, pressure
rating for water at 73 degrees Fahrenheit, 160 PSI, ASTM material
specifications, standard dimension ratio, the National Sanitation Foundation
seal of approval for drinking water, and the ASTM specification reference.
            5.   Trace wire. Trace wire shall be laid with all PVC water line
and shall be #12 copper-insulated and rated for underground service. The trace
wire shall be connected from the curb box to a point above grade in the
basement terminating at the water meter and connected securely to the pipe
using nylon tie straps. Splicing trace wire shall be accomplished by twisting
the two ends and heat shrink wrapping the splice. Splicing shall not be more
frequent than one splice per 250 feet; wire nut splices are not allowed.
      (2)   Sewer service requirements.
         (a)   Four-inch sanitary sewer services are required on residential
homes from the property line to the house. Commercial applications must be
approved by the Building Inspector.
         (b)   Plastic pipe must be Schedule 40 for residential and commercial
installations.
         (c)   The sewer service line must be installed at a minimum of six
feet or, if less, insulated sufficiently.
         (d)   Services shall be installed at a slope not less than one-fourth
inch per foot.
         (e)   Ninety-degree (90°) bends are not permitted on a sanitary sewer
service. The use of two 45-degree (45°) bends and a length of pipe to make a
sweeping bend are permitted.
         (f)   Use of a rubber donut gasket to connect to city sewer is NOT
acceptable. A 4" × 4" or 6" × 4" glued fitting is acceptable.
         (g)   Glued or mechanical gasketed joints are acceptable but must pass
the air test, 5-PSI for five minutes.
         (h)   All sanitary sewers must be air tested at 5-PSI for five
minutes.
         (i)   Cleanouts must be installed every 100 feet on lengthy sewer
services. Cleanout caps must be metal and weather tight.
         (j)   If any pipe is laid across a septic tank, the tank must be
filled, and the portion of pipe over the tank must be D.I.P.
         (k)   All excavations required for the installation of the building
sewer shall be open trench work unless approved by the Inspector.
         (l)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth shall be
sufficient to afford protection from frost.
         (m)   No sewer service line shall be installed under a garage.
      (3)   Water and sewer inspections.
         (a)   Sewer and water inspections can be scheduled during working
hours, Monday through Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., by calling 952-442-7520.
A 24-hour notice is required prior to performing an inspection.
         (b)   The orange building inspection card must be on site before an
inspection will be performed.
         (c)   If a job cannot be completed by the end of the day and a trench
must be left open overnight or over the weekend, the contractor must make
arrangements to fence or cover the trench so that it is safe and secure.
         (d)   All inspections of water and sewer lines from the property line
to the building structure and any tests involved are performed by the
contractor and witnessed by the Building Inspector or Utility Superintendent.
         (e)   Using the standard tie card from the city specifications, the
contractor must supply a drawing of water and sewer installation, to include
location of sewer and water line, swing tie measurements of sewer cleanouts,
and curb box. The drawing must be submitted to the Building Inspector before a
final is granted.
      (4)   Additional information and requirements.
         (a)   Curbs must be bridged when backing over them with equipment.
         (b)   The contractor is responsible for keeping the street clean of
dirt, mud, and/or debris. This will be charged out if Public Works has to do
any clean up.
         (c)   A street deposit is required on the building permit if any
digging in the right-of-way is to occur, in an amount determined by the City
Council from time to time.
   (G)   All construction shall be subject to the supervision of the Inspector.
All connections with any water main, all tapping of mains and the installation,
opening and closing of stopcocks shall be made by authorized city employees
done under the supervision of the city. All connections with the sanitary sewer
system shall be made by authorized city employees. All pipes laid in the
streets, alleys or on public property shall be laid by authorized city
employees or under the supervision of the city.
('82 Code, § 3.168)
   (H)   The following conditions shall be deemed to be incorporated in each
permit granted whenever any excavation is made in or along any public street,
alley, sidewalk or other public property:
      (1)   The work shall be done so as to occasion the least possible
inconvenience to the public.
      (2)   Provision shall be made for the passage of water along the gutters.
      (3)   At least half of the street shall be left clear for vehicles.
      (4)   Safe bridgeways on sidewalks shall be provided for foot passengers.
      (5)   All excavations and piles of dirt or other materials shall be
adequately guarded with barriers and lights so as to protect others from
hazards.
      (6)   Excavations shall be refilled as soon as reasonably possible.
      (7)   Streets, sidewalks and other property disturbed shall be restored
as nearly as practicable to their condition prior to the work.
      (8)   All rubbish and dirt shall be promptly removed.
(‘82 Code, § 3.170) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99; Am. Ord. 123, passed 11-14-
05; Am. Ord. 189, passed 12-9-13)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Separate service connection required
   
52.02   Responsibility for service line
   
52.03   Repair of leaks
   
52.04   Unauthorized use of water
   
52.05   Private water supply; connections
   
52.06   Restricted use periods
   
52.07   Water meters; reader installation and inspections
   
52.08   Dual water meters
   
52.09   Service requirements
   
52.10   Private wells for domestic use prohibited
§ 52.01 SEPARATE SERVICE CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   No more than one house or building shall be supplied from one service
connection. The Council, or the Building Inspector, when authorized to do so by
the Council, may waive this requirement upon a finding that a separate service
connection to any house or building is impracticable. Whenever two or more
houses or buildings are supplied from one pipe connecting with a service main,
each house, building or part thereof separately supplied shall have a separate
stop box and a separate meter.
('82 Code, § 3.211)
§ 52.02 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SERVICE LINE.
   All water service lines connecting the city water main to the property
served, including the portion of the line in the public right-of-way between
the main and property served shall be owned by and all expenses of maintaining,
repairing or replacing them shall be borne by the owner of the property served.
('82 Code, § 3.212)
§ 52.03 REPAIR OF LEAKS.
   The customer, and also the owner, occupant and lessee if not the customer,
shall be responsible for repair of any leaks. If any leak is not repaired
within the time allowed in the notice after notice to any of them to repair the
leak, including notice left at the premises, the Superintendent may shut the
water off. When the waste of water is great or damage is likely to occur from
the leak, the Superintendent may turn the water off immediately and thereafter
give notice to repair as provided herein.
('82 Code, § 3.213)
§ 52.04 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER.
   No person, other than an authorized city employee, shall take water from a
fire hydrant, from a city water tank filling station or from any other city
facility without first obtaining authority to do so from the Superintendent.
('82 Code, § 3.214) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY; CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall connect any water pipe of the city water supply system with
any pump, well or tank that is connected to any other source of water supply.
If any connection exists, the customer, owner or person in charge of the
premises shall forthwith sever the connection. When any connection is found,
the Superintendent may notify the customer, owner or other person in charge of
the premises to sever the connection immediately. If this is not done
immediately, the Superintendent may turn off the water supply. All cross
connections shall be eliminated before city water service is restored to the
premises.
('82 Code, § 3.215) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 RESTRICTED USE PERIODS.
   Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of water threatens the city
water supply, it may, by resolution, limit the times and hours during which
city water may be used for sprinkling, air conditioning, irrigation, car
washing and other specified uses. After publication of the resolution, or
delivery to the affected premises, or three days after mailing the resolution
to the affected customer, no person shall use or permit water to be used in
violation of the restrictions imposed in the resolution. Any person who does so
may be charged an excess use charge, as the Council may determine by
resolution. Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water
service in accordance with the procedures specified for discontinuance of
service for a leak found upon the customer's premises.
('82 Code, § 3.216)
§ 52.07 WATER METERS; READER INSTALLATION AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Except for extinguishment of fires and uses as may be authorized by
the Council, no person other than an authorized city employee shall use water
from the city water supply system or permit water to be drawn therefrom unless
the water passes through a water meter supplied or approved by the city.
('82 Code, § 3.221)
   (B)   Whenever any premises is connected to the city water supply system,
the customer shall provide and cause to be installed, at the customer’s own
expense, a water meter which will accurately measure the amount of water used
upon the premises. Meters shall be installed, disconnected, taken apart or in
any other manner changed only by authorized city employees or a licensed
plumber.
('82 Code, § 3.222)
   (C)   Meters shall be maintained, repaired and replaced at the customer’s
expense. If any customer fails to replace or repair a defective or inaccurate
meter, the city may do so and add the expense thereof to the customer’s water
bill.
('82 Code, § 3.223)
   (D)   When a customer complains that the bill for the immediate past service
period is excessive and requests that the meter be re-read, the city shall have
the meter re-read. Any customer who remains dissatisfied may request that the
meter be tested.
('82 Code, § 3.224)
   (E)   The city may test a meter for accuracy at any time. The Council may,
by resolution, establish a reasonable charge for testing any meter at the
request of any customer. If any test shows a meter to be inaccurate, it shall
promptly be repaired or replaced by the customer.
('82 Code, § 3.225)
   (F)   If a test shows a meter to be inaccurate by more than 5%, the tester
shall promptly notify the city of the inaccuracy. The city may retest any meter
at its own expense. Whenever the city determines that any meter was inaccurate
by more than 5%, the bill for the immediate past service period and the bill
for the elapsed portion of the current service period shall be adjusted
accordingly. If by reason of stoppage of the meter or any other reason, it is
not possible to determine, with reasonable accuracy, the amount of water
actually used, the city may estimate by any reasonable means, the amount of
water which was used. In no event, shall any adjustment be made for any service
periods prior to the immediate past service period.
('82 Code, § 3.226)
   (G)   Installation and inspections.
      (1)   Authorized city employees. No person except authorized city
employees shall turn water on at the street, unless authorized by the Utility
Superintendent.
      (2)   Newly constructed homes. On a newly constructed home, water shall
not be turned on at the street until the following conditions have been met:
         (a)   Curb stop must be brought to grade.
         (b)   Water meter and radio read remote have been installed according
to the following specifications:
            1.   The service pipe from the water main to the meter shall be
brought through the floor in a vertical position. A stop and waste valve shall
be installed about 12 inches above the floor.
            2.   The meter shall be located so that the bottom is from six to
12 inches above the finished floor line. The meter shall be set not more than
12 inches measured horizontally from the inside line of the basement wall,
unless an alternate method is approved by the plumbing inspector. A suitable
bracket to support the meter in a proper horizontal position and to prevent
noise from vibration shall be provided.
            3.   Radio read remotes should be mounted using the supplied
bracket. (See attached instructions for installation procedures.)
            4.   In no case shall there be more than 12 inches of pipe exposed
between the point of entrance through the basement floor and the gate valve. A
valve must also be installed in the house side of the meter. Gate valves shall
be brass 125 pounds standard.
      (3)   Inspections.
         (a)   Meter inspections can be scheduled during working hours, Monday
through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., by calling 952-442-7520.
         (b)   A 24-hour notice is required prior to performing an inspection.
         (c)   All inspections of water meters and any tests involved are to be
done by the Building Inspector or Utility Superintendent.
      (4)   Additional information. Meters are city property. All water meters
shall be and remain the property of the city and may be removed and replaced or
changed as to size and type by the city whenever deemed necessary.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 DUAL WATER METERS.
   (A)   The City Council determines that it is in the best interest of
customer fairness and public policy to establish a dual water meter policy. The
goal of this policy is to more accurately reflect residential sewage usage by
eliminating outside water usage that is not contributing to the city waste
water collection system.
   (B)   All new constructions shall require the installation of two water
meters on the premises. The second (dual) meter shall be for the purpose of
metering water usage that does not enter the city sanitary sewer system. Both
meters shall be installed and are subject to all costs, conditions, and
inspections as required by §§
52.07 and
52.09, as amended from time to time, and such other reasonable requirements for
installation, usage and inspection as determined by the city to be necessary
and appropriate to effectively implement the purpose of the dual water meter
policy. New construction shall be charged for two meters on the building
permit.
   (C)   Owners of existing structures may apply to the city for installation
of a second (dual) meter to meter non-sanitary sewer water usage pursuant to
regulations established by the city.
   (D)   The city shall read both meters according to city policy and billing
for sewer usage will be calculated by using the reading from the main water
meter.
(Ord. 133, passed 3-12-07)
§ 52.09SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every service pipe shall be laid in a manner as to prevent rupture by
settlement. Service pipes shall be placed at sufficient depth as to prevent
rupture from freezing. A shut-off or other stopcock with waste valve of the
size and strength required shall be placed in the location as the Building
Inspector may establish and shall be well protected from freezing. Each joint
shall be left uncovered until inspected by the Inspector. The Inspector may
establish further requirements regarding the size, nature and laying of service
pipes.
('82 Code, § 3.231)
   (B)   Every water meter shall be installed at a convenient height at the
point where the service pipe from the water main enters the building. The meter
shall be installed in a location and in a manner that the reading and testing
of the meter is reasonably convenient. A bracket or other suitable support
shall be provided to support the meter and prevent noise and vibration.
('82 Code, § 3.232)
   (C)   Curb stop boxes shall be placed as near as practicable to the curb if
on a street or within one foot of the alley line if the main is located in an
alley. They shall be installed at an approximate depth of seven feet below the
established grade and shall be left in an accurate vertical position when
backfilling is completed.
('82 Code, § 3.233)
§ 52.10 PRIVATE WELLS FOR DOMESTIC USE PROHIBITED.
    (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DOMESTIC USE. Water used for drinking or potable water, non-potable water
or irrigation purposes, but does not include water from wells drilled for such
purposes as dewatering, groundwater monitoring, heating or cooling, elevator
borings or environmental bore holes.
      IRRIGATE. To supply (land) with water by artificial means, as by
diverting streams, flooding, or spraying; to moisten; wet.
      PRIVATE WELLS FOR DOMESTIC USE. Any well not owned by the City Water
Utility which is drilled for potable water, non-potable water or irrigation
purposes including sand point or drive point wells. PRIVATE WELLS FOR DOMESTIC
USE does not include wells drilled for such purposes as dewatering, groundwater
monitoring, heating or cooling, elevator borings or environmental bore holes.
      SAND POINT or DRIVE POINT WELT. A shallow well that is a 1-1/4 to 2-inch
steel casing constructed by driving or pounding the casing down into the ground
until an aquifer is encountered.
   (B)   The drilling or installation of new private wells for domestic use on
any property to which City Water Utility Service is available within 1,000 feet
is prohibited.
(Ord. 180, passed 5-29-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Prohibited discharges
   
53.03   Preliminary treatment
   
53.04   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
53.05   Special agreements
   
53.06   Connection requirements
   
53.07   Standards for strength, size and the like
   
53.08   Industrial wastes
   
53.09   Private sewage disposal facilities
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid waste from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewer connections to the public sewer
system.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
businesses, buildings, institutions, industrial establishments and other
buildings served by the sewage system, together with ground, surface and storm
waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. Facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.
      (2)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of properties have equal
rights and which is controlled by public authority.
      (3)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface and ground waters are not to be intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The city's Utility Superintendent.
('82 Code, § 3.311)
§ 53.02 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   The following discharges of storm and drainage water is
prohibited.
         (a)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm
water, cooling water, surface water, subsurface drainage, groundwater, roof
runoff, yard drainage, yard fountain, pond overflow or any substance other than
sanitary sewage into the sanitary sewer collection system.
         (b)   No roof runoff, sump pump, foundation drain, swimming pool
discharge or surface water drainage shall be connected to the sanitary sewer
system and no building shall hereafter be constructed nor shall any existing
buildings be hereafter altered in a manner that the roof drainage or any other
source of discharge or drainage other than sanitary sewer shall connect with
the sanitary sewer system inside or outside the building.
         (c)   Any person having a roof, sump pump, foundation drain, swimming
pool discharge, cistern overflow pipe or surface drain now connected and/or
discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect and/or remove same
prior to October 1, 1994. Any disconnects or openings in the sanitary sewer
shall be closed or repaired in an effective, workmanlike manner.
         (d)   All sump pumps shall have a discharge pipe installed to the
outside wall of the building with one inch inside minimum diameter. The pipe
attachment shall be a permanent fitting such as a P.V.C. pipe with glued
fittings. The discharge shall not be within ten feet of property lines.
         (e)   Every person owning improved real estate that discharges into
the city's sanitary sewer system shall allow the city employee(s) or authorized
agents to inspect the improvements to confirm that there is no sump pump or
other prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system. Any person refusing
to allow the inspection shall immediately become subject to the surcharge
hereinafter provided. Any person found to violate this division shall make the
necessary changes to comply with this section and the changes shall be verified
by an employee or authorized agent of the city.
         (f)   The City Council shall determine whether or not conditions
evidence the violation of this division. Upon identification of the violation,
notification by certified mail shall be issued to the owner as shown by the
city's tax records of the property which evidences any violation of this
division. The notice shall identify the nature of the violation, the
requirements of this division and order compliance with this division no later
than days after receipt of the above notice.
         (g)   The owner may appeal the order to the Mayer City Council,
provided that any appeal shall be submitted in writing to the city no later
than ten days following receipt of the notice of violation.
         (h)   If the owner requests an appeal in compliance with division (g)
above, a hearing shall be scheduled before the City Council. Following the
hearing, the Council shall determine whether or not a violation has occurred.
Upon finding of a violation, the Council shall order compliance with this
division no later than ten days from the date of the order.
         (i)   If an appeal to the City Council order is not made to a district
court within ten days following the City Council's order and a property owner
has not brought the property into compliance as ordered, the city shall enforce
its order.
         (j)   A surcharge of $75 per month is hereby imposed and shall be
added to every sewer billing mailed on and after October 1, 1994, to property
owners who are not in compliance with this division. The surcharge shall be
added every month until the property is in compliance. The imposition of the
surcharge shall in no way limit the right of the city to seek an injunction in
the district court ordering the property owner to disconnect the nonconforming
connection from the sanitary sewer system or from pursuing any other legal
remedies available. Should a property owner found to be in compliance with this
division and during a subsequent inspection found to have connected or
reconnected an illegal source of clear water to the sanitary sewer system, the
surcharge of $75 per month will be applied for all months between the two
inspections.
      (2)   Temporary variances from the applicability of the provisions of
this division may be given where strict enforcement would cause undue hardship
because of circumstances unique to the individual property or cause a safety
problem. This does not apply to monetary hardship. Application for a temporary
waiver should be addressed in writing to the City Council. The application
shall identify the property for which the variance is being applied for, the
name of the property owner/applicant and describe in detail what
characteristics of the subject property create undue hardship or concern.
Within 30 days after application, the City Council shall make its order
deciding on the matter and serve a copy of the order upon the applicant by
mail. Upon approval of an application for variance, the city will allow the
property owner to temporarily discharge directly into the sanitary sewer system
during the period of November 1 through March 1. Employees or agents of the
city will divert the discharge and seal the connection of the discharge to the
sanitary sewer using a meter seal. The cost for the connection to the sanitary
sewer and subsequent removal will be $25 per occurrence.
('82 Code, § 3.312) (Am. Ord. 86, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 90, passed 11-10-97)
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into any sanitary
sewer, any cooling water from any air conditioning unit providing three tons of
refrigeration or larger which does not have a cooling tower or a recirculating
system, or any unpolluted industrial or commercial process water, without first
having secured a permit to do so from the Council. Cooling and process water
free from bacteria and harmful chemicals may be discharged to a storm sewer or
natural outlet.
('82 Code, § 3.313)
   (C)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the city, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal excrement, garbage
or other objectionable waste which ordinarily would be regarded as sewage or
industrial waste.
('82 Code, § 3.314)
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into any natural
outlet within the city, or any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any
sanitary sewage, industrial waste or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any wastes into
any public storm sewer.
('82 Code, § 3.315)
   (E)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged into any public sewer any of the following wastes:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 130° F.;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing more than 100 mg/l by weight of fats,
oils or greases;
      (3)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quality may cause fire or explosion, or be in any other way injurious to
persons, to the sewage works structures or to the operation of those works;
      (4)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance, which either singly or
by interaction with other wastes is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life or preventing entry to sewers for their maintenance and repair;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
bones, feathers, rubber, tires, plastic, wood, paunch manure, butcher's offal
or any other solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the
flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage
system or sewage treatment works;
      (6)   Any water or waste having a pH lower than 6.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazards to
structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works, or affecting the
biological treatment of the waste;
      (7)   Any water or waste containing toxic substances in quantities in
excess of the following limits and measured at the point of discharge into the
sewer system:
         (a)   Cyanide (CN): none;
         (b)   Copper (Co): 0.03;
         (c)   Chromium (hexalent): 0.05;
         (d)   Cadmium (Cd): 0.4;
         (e)   Zinc (Zn): 0.3; and
         (f)   Nickel (Ni): 2.0.
      (8)   Any substance that will pass through the sewage treatment works and
exceed the state or interstate requirements for the receiving stream;
      (9)   Any water or waste containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle materials
at the sewage treatment plant, without a special permit; or
      (10)   Any toxic radioactive isotopes, without special permit.
('82 Code, § 3.316) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.03 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   (A)   The customer shall provide and maintain, at the customer's expense,
preliminary treatment facilities as may be necessary to bring the customer's
discharge within the limits specified in §
53.02 (E). Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted by the customer to
the City Engineer for approval.
   (B)   Preliminary treatment facilities shall also meet all applicable
federal and state requirements.
('82 Code, § 3.317)
§ 53.04 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when necessary for
proper handling of any liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts,
any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients. Interceptors shall be
of a type and capacity approved by the City Engineer and shall be located so as
to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Interceptors
shall be installed and maintained by the customer at the customer's expense and
kept in continuously efficient duration at all times. Interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units, except that
interceptors shall be required in a garage located on residential property
which has a square footage exceeding 1,000 square feet.
('82 Code, § 3.318)
§ 53.05 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   The Council may, by special agreement with any customer, and subject to
conditions and payments as it deems proper for protection of the public health,
safety and welfare and protection of the sewage system from damage, allow any
waste of otherwise prohibited strength or character to be admitted into the
city's sanitary sewers for treatment by the city, whether before or after
pretreatment.
('82 Code, § 3.319)
§ 53.06 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building connected to the sanitary sewer system, except that where one building
stands at the rear of another and it is impractical to provide separate
building sewers or to connect the rear building through an adjoining alley,
court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
Other exceptions may be allowed by the Council upon a showing that the
provision of a separate and independent building sewer is impractical.
('82 Code, § 3.331)
   (B)   An old building sewer or portion thereof may be used to connect a new
building only when found, on examination and test by the Superintendent or
other authorized agent of the city, to meet all requirements of this code and
all other applicable requirements.
('82 Code, § 3.332)
§ 53.07 STANDARDS FOR STRENGTH, SIZE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The building sewer pipe and fittings shall be made of extra strength
vitrified clay sewer pipe, extra heavy cast iron soil pipe or P.V.C. plastic
pipe meeting the current American Society for Testing and Materials (A.S.T.M.)
or Department of Commerce specifications. If installed in filled or unstable
ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe, except that
vitrified clay or P.V.C. pipe may be used if laid on a suitable improved bed or
cradle approved by the Inspector. Other materials may be used if approved by
the agency of the state charged with the duty of approving materials.
('82 Code, § 3.351)
   (B)   (1)   All joints and connections shall be made gas tight and water
tight. Vitrified clay sewer pipes shall be in conformance with the latest
A.S.T.M. specifications. Before joining the pipe in the trench, the ball and
spigot surfaces shall be wiped free of dirt and other foreign matter. The
spigot end shall be positioned into the bell end of pipe previously laid and
shall then be shoved home to assure a tight fit. Joints for cast iron soil
pipes shall be rubber ring or equal in conformance with the latest A.S.T.M.
specifications.
      (2)   A P.V.C. sewer pipe shall be a solvent weld joint in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
('82 Code, § 3.352)
   (C)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four
inches. The slope of the pipe shall be not less than - inch per foot. A slope
of ¼-inch per foot shall be used wherever practical.
('82 Code, § 3.353)
   (D)   All excavations required for the installation of the building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Inspector.
('82 Code, § 3.354)
   (E)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth shall be sufficient to
afford protection from frost.
('82 Code, § 3.355)
   (F)   Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with
A.S.T.M. specifications. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected and approved by the Inspector.
('82 Code, § 3.356)
   (G)   In any buildings in which the building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drain shall be
lifted by artificial means approved by the Inspector and discharged to the
building sewer. No water operated sewage ejector shall be used.
('82 Code, § 3.357)
   (H)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch designated for that property, if the branch is available
at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated “Y” branch in
the main sewer shall be made only as directed by the Inspector.
('82 Code, § 3.358) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.08 INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   The economy and desirability of the combined treatment of industrial
wastes and sanitary sewage is recognized. However, not all types and quantities
of industrial wastes can be so treated. It is the policy of the city to admit
to the sanitary sewer system only those types and quantities of industrial
wastes that are not harmful or damaging to the structure, process and operation
of the city sanitary sewer system and that are not specifically prohibited by
this chapter. To provide treatment for industrial wastes may require additional
facilities, the cost of which should be borne by the industries which
necessitate the additional facilities for their waste and therefore receive its
benefits.
('82 Code, § 3.371)
   (B)   The types and quantities of industrial wastes which may be admitted
into the public sewer system without pretreatment shall established by the City
Engineer and approved by the Council.
('82 Code, § 3.372)
   (C)   In order to control the admission of industrial wastes into the public
sewers, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following waters or wastes into the public sanitary sewers, except upon
approval of the Council:
      (1)   A five-day, 20° C., BOD greater than 400 mg/1;
      (2)   A suspended solids content greater than 350 mg/l;
      (3)   A chlorine demand greater than 15 mg/l;
      (4)   An average daily flow greater than 10% of the average daily sewage
flow at the sewage treatment works;
      (5)   Any toxic substance; or
      (6)   Any waters or wastes which are determined by the Engineer to offer
possibilities of harm to the structures, process or operation of the sewage
works.
('82 Code, § 3.373)
   (D)   Any person desiring to make a new connection to the public sanitary
sewer system for the purpose of discharging industrial wastes, and any person
desiring to discharge industrial waste through an existing connection, shall
complete and file with the City Engineer a questionnaire furnishing pertinent
or predicted data upon the quantity of flow and an analysis of the industrial
waste to be discharged before making the connection or discharge. The Engineer
may, at any time, require that a user discharging industrial waste complete a
questionnaire showing current discharges. Upon notice from the Engineer, the
user shall furnish the data within 30 days of the mailing or personal delivery
of the notice.
('82 Code, § 3.374)
   (E)   Samples shall be obtained at the times and in the manner as will be
representative of the actual quantity and quality of waste, and in all events
shall be collected over a three-day period of operation or more. Samples for
analysis must be collected by the Engineer or by a person approved to do so by
the Engineer. Analysis of the sample shall be made by a qualified sanitary
engineer using commonly accepted analysis techniques.
('82 Code, § 3.375)
   (F)   Any user discharging industrial wastes into the public sanitary sewer
system shall install a suitable control work hole in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of all waste, including all
domestic sewage from the establishment. The work hole shall be installed in
accordance with plans approved by the City Engineer and shall be of safe design
and in a readily accessible location. The work hole shall be installed by the
user at the user's expense and shall be maintained by the user so as to be safe
and accessible at all times. In the event that no special work hole exists, the
control work hole for taking any samples shall be considered the nearest
downstream work hole in the public sewer from the point where the building
sewer is connected.
('82 Code, § 3.376)
§ 53.09 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
private sewage disposal facility.
('82 Code, § 3.381)
   (B)   All buildings which would have to be connected to a public sanitary
sewer pursuant to this chapter, but for the unavailability of a public sanitary
sewer or the impracticability of making a connection, shall be connected to a
private sewage disposal facility. The private sewage disposal facility shall
comply with and be operated in compliance with all federal, state and local
requirements. The owner shall operate and maintain the facility in a sanitary
manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
('82 Code, § 3.382) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 54: DRAIN TILE CONNECTIONS
Section
   
54.01   Mandatory connection to public drain tiles: existing private systems
   
54.02   Mandatory connection to public drain tiles: new developments
§ 54.01 MANDATORY CONNECTION TO PUBLIC DRAIN TILES: EXISTING PRIVATE SYSTEMS.
   When a publicly owned drain tile system is installed in a street or rear
yard easement, property abutting or adjoining that street or rear yard easement
that has a privately owned foundation or roof drain tile system shall connect
that system to the public system within one year after the public system is
installed under the following circumstances:
   (A)   Water from the private drain tile system is being discharged onto a
city boulevard or street.
   (B)   Water from the private drain tile system is being discharged onto
property not owned by the owner of the private drain tile system.
(Ord. 105, passed 12-9-02)
§ 54.02 MANDATORY CONNECTIONS TO PUBLIC DRAIN TILES: NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   If a public drain tile system has been installed in a street or rear yard
easement before a certificate of occupancy has been issued for a building on a
lot abutting or adjoining the street or rear yard easement, a certificate of
occupancy shall not be issued until a foundation drain tile system has been
constructed and connected to the public drain tile system.
(Ord. 105, passed 12-9-02)
CHAPTER 55: STORMWATER UTILITY
Section
   
55.01   Findings; purposes
   
55.02   Stormwater utility established
   
55.03   Definitions
   
55.04   Calculation of fee
   
55.05   Billing; payment
   
55.06   Fee appeal
   
55.07   Establishment of fund
§ 55.01 FINDINGS; PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this chapter is for the efficient, economic and safe
operation of a stormwater system for the protection of the health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of the City of Mayer.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-28-05)
§ 55.02 STORMWATER UTILITY ESTABLISHED.
   A municipal stormwater utility is hereby established and shall be operated
as a public utility pursuant to M.S. § 444.075 from which revenues will be
derived subject to the provisions of this chapter and Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-28-05)
§ 55.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RUNOFF EQUIVALENT FACTOR (REF). Rates and charges for the use and
availability of the system are to be determined through the use of a RUNOFF
EQUIVALENT FACTOR. For the purposes of this chapter, one REF is defined as the
ratio of the average volume of surface water runoff generated by one acre of a
particular land use, to the average volume of runoff generated by one acre of
typical single-family residential land, during a standard one-year rainfall
event.
   STORMWATER UTILITY RATE. The charge to a typical single-family and duplex
residential parcel shall be the STORMWATER UTILITY RATE. All developed single-
family and duplex residential parcels shall be considered to have acreage of up
to one acre.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-28-05)
§ 55.04 CALCULATION OF FEE.
   (A)   Land use classifications. Stormwater drainage fees for land use
classifications 1 and 3 shall be on a per parcel basis. Stormwater drainage
fees for all other land uses shall be determined by multiplying the REF for a
parcel’s land use by the parcel’s acreage and then multiplying the resulting
product by the stormwater utility rate. The REF values for the various land
uses are as follows:
 
Classification Typical Land Uses                                      REF
1              Residential single-family, duplex, townhomes and       1.0
               condominiums
2              Schools and churches                                   1.25
3              Commercial, industrial and apartments                  3.0
4              Vacant land (e.g., undeveloped land, agricultural land .5
               without a dwelling)
 
   (B)   Other land uses. Other land uses not listed in the foregoing table
shall be classified by the City Council by assigning them to the classes most
nearly like the listed uses from the standpoint of impervious coverage and
runoff produced.
   (C)   Stormwater utility rate. The stormwater utility rate shall be
determined by the City Council on an annual basis in the same manner as for
other utilities, and shall be charged to all parcels not listed as exempt in
division (D) below.
   (D)   Exemptions. Public rights-of-way shall be exempt from stormwater
utility fees.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-28-05)
§ 55.05 BILLING; PAYMENT.
   Stormwater utility charges shall be computed and billed periodically with,
and included as a charge on, bills issued by the city for water and sewer
services. If a parcel of land subject to the stormwater utility is not served
by other utilities, a separate bill shall be issued on a bi-monthly basis.
   (A)   Penalties and remedies for delinquencies. All stormwater utility
charges shall be due on the date specified by the city for the respective
amount and shall be delinquent 30 days thereafter. Delinquent accounts will be
charged a late fee as provided in § 51.23. The late charge will be added to the
bill effective the first day of each month of the delinquency. The city shall
attempt to collect delinquent accounts promptly.
   (B)   Assessment roll. The Clerk shall prepare an assessment roll each year
providing for assessment of any delinquent accounts against the respective
properties served. The assessment roll shall be delivered to the Council for
adoption on or before the regular City Council meeting in November of each year
for certification to the County Auditor for collection along with taxes. The
city shall also have the right to bring a civil action or to take other legal
remedies to collect unpaid delinquent accounts.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-28-05)
§ 55.06 FEE APPEAL.
   (A)   Written appeal. If a property owner or person responsible for paying
the stormwater utility fee believes that a particular assigned fee is
incorrect, such person may request, in writing, that the fee be recomputed.
Such request shall be made within 30 days of the mailing of the billing in
question, and shall immediately be addressed by appropriate city staff. If the
property owner is not in agreement with the determination of the fee by the
city staff, he or she may appeal the determination in writing by making a
request for a hearing to the Stormwater Utility Board of Appeals within 14 days
of the staff’s determination. The City Council shall act as the Stormwater
Utility Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Hearing. A hearing before the Board of Appeals shall be scheduled to
occur within 45 days of receiving the property owner’s request for a hearing.
Notice of the hearing must be served on the property owner at least 14 days in
advance unless a shorter time is accepted by all parties. Service of the notice
shall be by first class mail and will be complete upon mailing. The property
owner shall have the burden of proving that the stormwater utility fee for his
or her property is incorrect. The decision of the Board of Appeals is final
without any further right of appeal. The property owner may obtain judicial
review of the decision of the Board of Appeals by proceeding pursuant to a writ
of certiorari in the appropriate court.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-28-05)
§ 55.07 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   All fees collected for the stormwater utility shall be placed in a fund for
stormwater purposes. Revenues shall be used to pay for the construction,
reconstruction, repair, enlargement, improvement, or other obtainment and the
maintenance, operation and use of the facilities, and all other purposes as
permitted by M.S. § 444.075.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-28-05)
CHAPTER 56: AREA CHARGES
Section
   
56.01   Findings; purpose
   
56.02   Area charges established
   
56.03   Definitions
   
56.04   Calculation of area charges
   
56.05   Billing; payment
   
56.06   Fee appeal
   
56.07   Establishment of fund
§ 56.01 FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is for the efficient, economic and safe
operation of the sanitary sewer, water and storm sewer systems for the
protection of the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the
City of Mayer.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-12-05)
§ 56.02 AREA CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   Area charges are hereby established pursuant to M.S. § 444.075 from which
revenues will be derived subject to the provisions of this chapter and
Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-12-05)
§ 56.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA CHARGES. Charges for the use and availability of the sanitary sewer
system, stormwater system and water system.
   DEVELOPABLE ACRES. The gross platted area except for outlots, unmitigated
wetlands and stormwater detention or ponding areas.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-12-05)
§ 56.04 CALCULATION OF AREA CHARGES.
   Area charges shall be calculated based on developable acres and shall be set
by the City Council on an annual basis and included in the annual fee schedule
adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-12-05)
§ 56.05 BILLING; PAYMENT.
   Area charges will be due and payable at the time of the signing of the
development agreement. In the event area charges are not paid pursuant to the
development agreement, area charges shall be paid prior to issuance of a
building permit and calculated on a per unit basis.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-12-05)
§ 56.06 FEE APPEAL.
   (A)   Written appeal. If a property owner or person responsible for paying
the area charge (hereinafter collectively referred to as “owner”) believes that
a particular assigned fee is incorrect, such person may request, in writing,
that the fee be recomputed. Such request shall be made within ten days of the
required date of payment. If the owner is not in agreement with the
determination of the fee by the city staff, he or she may appeal the
determination in writing by making a request for a hearing to the City Council
within 14 days of the staff’s determination.
   (B)   Hearing. A hearing before the City Council shall be scheduled to occur
within 45 days of receiving the request for a hearing. Notice of the hearing
must be served to the owner at least 14 days in advance unless a shorter time
is accepted by all parties. Service of the notice shall be by first class mail
and will be complete upon mailing. The owner shall have the burden of proving
that the area charges for his or her property are incorrect. The decision of
the City Council is final without any further right of appeal.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-12-05)
§ 56.07 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   All fees collected for the area charges shall be placed in a fund for
sanitary sewer, water and stormwater purposes. Revenues shall be used to pay
for the construction, reconstruction, repair, enlargement, improvement, or
other obtainment and the maintenance, operation and use of the facilities, and
all other purposes as permitted by M.S. § 444.075.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-12-05)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   SNOWMOBILES, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, AND GOLF CARTS
      
73.   SKATEBOARDS, BICYCLES, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Exhibition driving
   
70.02   Inattentive driving
   
70.03   State highway traffic regulations adopted
   
70.04   Use of engine retarding brakes
§ 70.01 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   No person shall start, turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a
motor vehicle on any public or private way within the city in any manner which
causes unnecessary engine noise or backfire, squealing of tires, skidding,
sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or gravel, or in any manner simulating a
race. Squealing or screeching sounds emitted by the tires or the throwing of
sand, dirt or gravel by the tires is prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section.
('82 Code, § 5.111)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.02 INATTENTIVE DRIVING.
   No person shall operate or halt any motor vehicle upon any public or private
property within the city inattentively or imprudently in light of circumstances
then existing or without reasonable care for the rights of others or the safety
of persons or property. Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of
the offense of inattentive driving. Inattentive driving shall be considered a
lesser offense than the offense of careless driving under state law.
('82 Code, § 5.112)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.03 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The Highway Traffic Regulations Act, M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended
from time to time, and M.S. § 171.01, 171.02 and 171.24, as they may be amended
from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference. The penalty for violation
of the provisions of M.S. Ch. 169 shall be identical with the penalty provided
in the statutes for the same offense.
§ 70.04 USE OF ENGINE RETARDING BRAKES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally
use an engine retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot, or
alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
except in an emergency.
   (B)   ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE, for the purpose of this section, shall mean a
Dynamic Brake, Jake Brake, Jacobs Brake, C-Brake, Paccar Brake, or other
similar engine retarding brake system which alters the normal compression of
the engine and subsequently releases that compression in a manner which may
cause abnormal or excessive noise from the engine in a particular vehicle.
   (C)   ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE is noise in excess of that permitted by:
      (1)   M.S. § 169.69, as it may be amended from time to time, which
requires every motor vehicle to be equipped with a muffler in good working
order; or
      (2)   M.S. § 169.693 and Minnesota Rules parts 7030.1000 through
7030.1050, as this statute and these rules may be amended from time to time,
which establish motor vehicle noise standards.
   (D)   M.S. §§ 169.69 and 169.693 and Minnesota Rules parts 7030.1000 through
7030.1050, as these statutes and rules may be amended from time to time, are
hereby adopted by reference.
   (E)   Signs stating “Vehicle Noise Laws Enforced,” may be installed at
locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise motorists of the
prohibitions contained in this ordinance. The posting of these signs is deemed
to provide adequate notice of the contents of this ordinance.
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   General prohibitions
   
71.03   Semi- and tractor-trailers
   
71.04   Overtime parking; commercial vehicles
   
71.05   No parking zones
   
71.06   Winter parking regulations
   
71.07   Disabled vehicles
   
71.08   Abandoned vehicles
   
71.09   Repair of vehicles on streets
   
71.10   Moving and impounding vehicles
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET. The entire width of the dedicated or acquired right-of-way of any
street within the city.
   STREET IMPROVEMENT. Any seal coating, blacktopping, excavating, grading,
graveling, sweeping, new construction or reconstruction of previously existing
roads.
   UTILITY CONSTRUCTION. The construction, repair or servicing of public
utilities within the street right-of-way.
(Ord. 64, passed 1-14-85; Am. Ord. 245, passed 9-23-24)
§ 71.02 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall park or leave a motorized vehicle on any portion of a
street in the city which is part of a street improvement project from the
beginning date of construction to the completion date of construction.
   (B)   No person shall park or leave a motorized vehicle on any portion of a
street in the city where utility construction is taking place from the
beginning date to the completion date of construction.
(Ord. 64, passed 1-14-85; Am. Ord. 245, passed 9-23-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 SEMI- AND TRACTOR-TRAILERS.
   No trailer, whether free-standing or connected with a tractor, will be
permitted to park on any city street unless the trailer is being used in
conjunction with a legitimate service being rendered to a business or residence
or for purpose of loading or unloading. A tractor which is freestanding will be
permitted to park on any city street, subject to all parking regulations and
ordinances herein. It will be unlawful to run the engine for more than 30
minutes in any three-hour period.
(Ord. 64, passed 1-14-85)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.04 OVERTIME PARKING; COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle, including a semi
tractor-trailer unit or semi trailer, whether attended or unattended, upon any
public street or public lot for a period of time longer than 24 consecutive
hours. No trucks or pickup trucks with the standard body weighing more than ¾-
ton shall be parked on residential zoned streets between the hours of 6:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m. No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle so as to block
any public street or alley at any time unless it is in the process of being
loaded or unloaded.
(Ord. 64, passed 1-14-85)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.05 NO PARKING ZONES.
   The Council may from time to time, by motion adopted by a majority vote,
designate certain streets or portions thereof as “NO PARKING” zones or as
limited parking zones as to period of time and purpose, such as snow removal
and otherwise, and direct the Street Commissioner to act accordingly to place
proper signs thereon and/or appropriately paint the curbs thereby to indicate
their character.
(Ord. 64, passed 1-14-85)
§ 71.06 WINTER PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Winter parking regulations shall be in effect from November 1 to April
1.
   (B)   While winter parking regulations are in effect, no vehicle may be
parked on any street or alley within city limits between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m. when any amount of snow, accumulated or still precipitating,
exists until snow removal operations have been completed.
(Ord. 64, passed 1-14-85; Am. Ord. 245, passed 9-23-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 DISABLED VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle, which becomes disabled when traveling on any
street or alley such that it is impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily
leaving the vehicle on the street or alley, shall move the vehicle as close to
the curb or edge of the roadway as may be done. If the vehicle cannot be
immediately moved or towed away, the driver shall immediately report the
disability to the law enforcement agency providing police protection to the
city. No owner or driver of a vehicle which is disabled shall allow it to
remain upon the traveled portion of any street or alley, or allow a disabled
vehicle to be parked along any street or alley even though parking of it would
otherwise be lawful, for any longer than reasonably necessary to cause the
vehicle to be moved or towed away.
('82 Code, § 5.121)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.08 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   No driver or owner shall abandon any vehicle upon any street, alley or
public property within the city. The leaving of any vehicle, not reasonably
capable of being driven for transportation, or which cannot be driven without
being repaired, upon any street, alley or public property for more than seven
days is a prima facie violation of this section.
('82 Code, § 5.122)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned Vehicles, see
Chapter 90
§ 71.09 REPAIR OF VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   No person shall repair any vehicle on any street or alley, except to make
emergency repairs necessary to enable removal of the vehicle from the street or
alley.
('82 Code, § 5.123)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.10 MOVING AND IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any vehicle which shall be left parked or standing in violation of
this section or the laws of the state may be summarily removed without notice
to the owner or operator by officers of the Police Department serving the city
or persons employed or designated by them, and stored in an appropriated place.
All expenses of towing, removing and storage of the vehicles shall first be
paid to the person towing, removing or storing the vehicles by the person
claiming the vehicles before release of same.
   (B)   The city, its agent and employees, shall not be responsible for any
damage to the vehicles removed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 64, passed 1-14-85)
CHAPTER 72: SNOWMOBILES, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES,
AND GOLF CARTS
Section
   
72.01   Intent
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Owner responsible
   
72.04   [Reserved]
   
72.05   Prohibited operation; exceptions
   
72.06   Traffic ordinances and laws to be observed
   
72.07   Operation of snowmobiles by minors
   
72.08   Towing
   
72.09   Equipment
   
72.10   Emergency use of streets permitted; police; fire departments
   
72.11   Securing
   
72.12   Golf cart specific regulations
§ 72.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to supplement M.S. §§ 84.81 through 84.928
and M.S. Chapter 169, as may be amended from time to time, with respect to the
operation of snowmobiles, ATVs, golf carts, and recreational vehicles. Such
statutes are incorporated in this chapter by reference. This chapter is not
intended to allow what the state statutes prohibit.
(Ord. 169, passed 9-27-10; Am. Ord. 231, passed 11-9-20; Am. Ord. 239, passed
4-24-23)
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). An all-terrain vehicle as defined in M.S. §
84.92, Subd. 8, including Class 1 and Class 2 all-terrain vehicles further
defined in M.S. § 84.92, Subd. 9-10, as may be amended from time to time.
   CLASS 1 ATV. An all-terrain vehicle as defined by M.S. § 84.92, Subd. 9, as
may be amended from time to time.
   CLASS 2 ATV. An all-terrain vehicle as defined by M.S. § 84.92, Subd.10, as
may be amended from time to time.
   DEADMAN THROTTLE OR SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which, when pressure is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be
disengaged from the driving mechanism.
   GOLF CART. A small motorized vehicle, with electric or gas power, designed
to carry two golfers and their golf clubs around a golf course between shots.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, having the property in or title to
a snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle, or entitled to the use or possession
thereof.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle propelled
or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes, including
but not limited to snowmobiles, trail bikes, all-terrain vehicles, mini-bikes,
pocket bikes, motorized scooters, hovercrafts, or motor vehicles licensed for
highway operation, which is being used for off-road recreational purposes.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a street in which the
public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice,
steered by skis or runners.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare, highway, roadway, alley, or trail used for
motor vehicle traffic.
(Ord. 169, passed 9-27-10; Am. Ord. 231, passed 11-9-20; Am. Ord. 239, passed
4-24-23)
§ 72.03 OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile, recreational vehicle, golf
cart, or all-terrain vehicle to knowingly permit the snowmobile, recreational
vehicle, golf cart, or all-terrain vehicle to be operated in any manner
contrary to any provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 169, passed 9-27-10; Am. Ord. 231, passed 11-9-20; Am. Ord. 239, passed
4-24-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 RESERVED.
§ 72.05 PROHIBITED OPERATION; EXCEPTIONS.
   Except as specifically permitted and authorized in this chapter, it is
unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile, recreational vehicle, golf
cart, or all-terrain vehicle within the limits of the city:
   (A)   On State Highway No. 25;
   (B)   On any public street, except in the following circumstances:
      (1)   A snowmobile may operate upon the most righthand lane of a street,
except State Highway No. 25, and may, in passing or in making a left turn,
operate on other lanes which are used for vehicle traffic in the same
direction, for the purpose of going in the most direct, practicable route
possible from a point outside the city to a specific destination within the
city, or from a point within the city to a specific destination outside the
city limits. Operation of a snowmobile without regard to a specific destination
and on an aimless, non-direct route, however, constitutes a violation of this
chapter;
      (2)   A Class 2 ATV may operate on public roads and streets within the
city to access businesses and residences and make trail connections, provided
that such operation is otherwise in compliance with M.S. § 84.81 through
84.928, as may be amended from time to time. A Class 2 ATV may be operated at
nighttime (between sunset and sunrise) pursuant to this division provided that
it is operating with the following functioning equipment:
         (a)   Factory installed headlights;
         (b)   Factory installed taillights; and
         (c)   Factory installed brake lights and either factory installed or
after market installed turn signals.
   (C)   On a public sidewalk or boulevard within any public right-of-way,
except for the sidewalk on the east side of State Highway No. 25 between Fourth
and Fifth Streets, provided that an operator may cross a public sidewalk,
boulevard, or other public right-of-way to obtain access to a street if such
crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the direction of
the sidewalk, boulevard or right-of-way and, provided further, that such
operator yields the right-of-way to all pedestrians or vehicle traffic;
   (D)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of such property;
   (E)   Upon any school grounds, except as permission is expressly obtained
from responsible school authorities;
   (F)   On public property, playgrounds, parks, trails, and recreation areas;
   (G)   On streets as permitted by this chapter at a speed not exceeding 15
miles per hour within the limits of the city, with the exception of a Class 2
ATV as provided in division (B)(2) which may be operated in accordance with
posted speed limits. However, in no event shall the rate of speed be greater
than reasonable or proper under all of the surrounding circumstances;
   (H)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
personal property of another or to cause injury or damage thereto;
   (I)   While under the influence of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or
drugs, as prohibited in state law;
   (J)   In such a manner so as to create loud, excessive, unnecessary or
unusual noise or in any way which shall unduly disturb the peace and privacy of
the residents of the city or in any manner create a public nuisance;
   (K)   Without a lighted headlight and taillight when required for safety,
and otherwise provided herein; and
   (L)   The above notwithstanding, no snowmobile, ATV, golf cart, or
recreational vehicle shall operate on a roadway or street in the city under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   Inclement weather;
      (2)   When visibility is impaired by smoke, fog, or other conditions; or
      (3)   At any time there is insufficient visibility to clearly see persons
and vehicles in the street or roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 169, passed 9-27-10; Am. Ord. 231, passed 11-9-20; Am. Ord. 239, passed
4-24-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 TRAFFIC ORDINANCES AND LAWS TO BE OBSERVED.
   City traffic ordinances and state laws shall apply to the operation of
snowmobiles, recreational vehicles, golf carts, and ATVs upon all streets, if
permitted by this chapter to operate on public streets within the city limits.
In addition, no snowmobile, recreational vehicle, golf cart, or ATV shall enter
any uncontrolled intersection without making a complete stop. The operator
shall yield the right-of- way to all vehicles or pedestrians at the
intersection or so close as to constitute a hazard. All streets shall be
crossed at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the direction of the street.
If more than one snowmobile is traveling in the same direction, they shall
travel in a single file.
(Ord. 169, passed 9-27-10; Am. Ord. 231, passed 11-9-20; Am. Ord. 239, passed
4-24-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES BY MINORS.
   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on the streets or make a
direct crossing of a city street as the operator of a snowmobile. A person 14
years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may operate a snowmobile
on streets as permitted under this chapter and state law, and make a direct
crossing of such streets, only if the person complies with the licensing
provisions as may be required in state law.
(Ord. 169, passed 9-27-10; Am. Ord. 239, passed 4-24-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 TOWING.
   (A)   No vehicle, including but not limited to sleds, toboggans, sleighs, or
similar items shall be towed behind a snowmobile, recreational vehicle, golf
cart, or ATV permitted to be upon any public street between the hours of one-
half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise unless such vehicle is
equipped with at least one tail lamp meeting the requirements of the equipment
for a snowmobile, recreational vehicle, golf cart, or ATV as provided in the
regulations in state law.
   (B)   No snowmobile, recreational vehicle, golf cart, or ATV should be used
for towing unless it shall have attached to the rear of the snowmobile,
recreational vehicle, golf cart, or ATV a rigid tow bar.
(Ord. 169, passed 9-27-10; Am. Ord. 231, passed 11-9-20; Am. Ord. 239, passed
4-24-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile, recreational vehicle,
golf cart, or ATV any place within the limits of the city unless it is equipped
with the following:
   (A)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of, and to stop and hold, the
snowmobile, recreational vehicle, golf cart, or ATV under any condition of
operation;
   (B)   A safety or so-called deadman throttle in operating condition;
   (C)   When operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one-
half hour before sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility, lights shall be
used as provided in state law. Such lights shall be so aimed that glaring rays
are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming vehicle operator. It shall also
be equipped with a red tail lamp as required in state law;
   (D)   Reflective material at least 16 square inches on each side, forward of
the handlebars, so as to reflect lights at a 90-degree angle; and
   (E)   All other equipment and safety requirements as prescribed by Minnesota
Statutes and the rules and regulations of the state.
(Ord. 169, passed 9-27-10; Am. Ord. 231, passed 11-9-20; Am. Ord. 239, passed
4-24-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10 EMERGENCY USE OF STREETS PERMITTED; POLICE; FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this chapter, a snowmobile,
recreational vehicle, golf cart, or ATV may be operated on a public street in
an emergency situation during the period of time when, and at locations where,
snow upon the street renders travel by automobile impractical.
   (B)   This chapter does not prohibit use of snowmobiles, recreational
vehicles, golf carts, and all-terrain vehicles by police, fire or emergency
personnel operating in the course of their authorized duties.
(Ord. 169, passed 9-27-10; Am. Ord. 231, passed 11-9-20; Am. Ord. 239, passed
4-24-23)
§ 72.11 SECURING.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile, recreational vehicle, golf cart, or ATV
on a public place shall lock the ignition, remove the key and take the key with
the person.
(Ord. 169, passed 9-27-10; Am. Ord. 231, passed 11-9-20; Am. Ord. 239, passed
4-24-23)
§ 72.12 GOLF CART SPECIFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Driver’s license required. No golf cart may be operated in the city
without a valid Minnesota Driver’s License.
   (B)   Minimum age required. No person may operate a golf cart under the age
of 16.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Golf carts are allowed to operate from sunrise to
sunset, except during periods of inclement weather or when visibility is
impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions, or at any time when there
is insufficient light to clearly see persons or vehicles on the roadway at a
distance of 500 feet.
   (D)   Permit required. No golf cart may be operated in the city without a
permit from the city.
   (E)   Permit information required. The permit application shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Name of owner/operator;
      (2)   Address of owner/operator;
      (3)   Date of birth of operator;
      (4)   Contact information;
      (5)   Copy of current driver's license;
      (6)   Golf cart make, model, year, and serial number; and
      (7)   Proof of insurance.
   (F)   Permit fee. A fee shall be established by ordinance of the City
Council.
   (G)   Permit renewals. Permits shall be renewed annually. All permits shall
expire on December 31 of each year.
   (H)   Additional required equipment. Golf carts must be equipped a slow
moving emblem, rear view mirror, headlights, taillights, rear facing brake
lights, and turn signals in addition to §
72.09. However, §
72.09(D) does not apply.
   (I)   Insurance requirements. Owners and operators of golf carts shall carry
liability insurance coverage pursuant to M.S. § 65B.48, Subd. 5, as may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 239, passed 4-23-23)
CHAPTER 73: SKATEBOARDS, BICYCLES, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE
Section
   
73.01   Skateboards
§ 73.01 SKATEBOARDS.
   (A)   The operation of skateboards and related devices within the corporate
limits of the City of Mayer shall be regulated pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
as amended from time to time.
   (B)   In addition, it shall be unlawful to operate skateboards and related
devices under the following circumstances.
      (1)   On private property without the express permission to do so by the
owner or occupant of such property.
      (2)   In any careless, reckless or negligent manner, so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger the safety of any person or property.
      (3)   In any park, except Meadow Park, except in and around the
playground equipment area in Meadow Park.
      (4)   Upon any public street, alley, sidewalk, trail and parking lot
lying within the following described area: Bluejay Avenue (County Road 23) on
the west; Ash Avenue (State Highway 25) on the east; First Street (County Road
30) on the south and Fifth Street on the north; including said streets and
alley (between Bluejay and Ash Avenue).
   (C)   Impoundment. Violation of this section shall be punishable by
impoundment of such device by a law enforcement officer for storage and
safekeeping for a period of three days for the first offense, seven days upon
the second offense, and 30 days for the third offense. Subsequent offenses are
punishable as a petty misdemeanor. Such device may be recovered upon payment of
an impound fee of $25 to the city; and if the owner thereof is under age 18,
the accompaniment of a legal guardian is also required.
(Ord. 151, passed 11-10-08) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
      
91.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   PUBLIC PARKS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Abandoned property
Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.15   Findings and purpose
   
90.16   Definitions
   
90.17   Violation to abandon motor vehicle
   
90.18   Authority to impound vehicles
   
90.19   Sale; waiting periods
   
90.20   Notice of taking and sale
   
90.21   Right to reclaim
   
90.22   Operator's deficiency claim; consent to sale
   
90.23   Disposition by impound lot
   
90.24   Disposal authority
   
90.25   Contracts; reimbursement by MPCA
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.01 ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Purpose. This subchapter is enacted for the purpose of protecting and
promoting the public health, sanitation, safety and general welfare in the
city; the suppression of disease and contamination; to protect against and
lessen the danger to human life, health and property from fire, explosion,
noxious fumes, infestations of insects and rodents, accidents, and other
hazards on private and public premises; and to protect against and prohibit the
creating or continuance of nuisances.
   (B)   Hazard and nuisance declared. The existence of abandoned property as
defined herein, on public or private premises, is declared to be a hazard to
public health, sanitation, safety and welfare, and a public nuisance.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purposes of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED PROPERTY. Deteriorated, wrecked or derelict property in
unusable condition, having no value other than nominal scrap or junk value, if
any, which has been left unprotected from the elements. ABANDONED PROPERTY
includes, without being restricted, deteriorated, wrecked, inoperative,
discarded, disused or partially dismantled trailers, boats, motors, watercraft
of any kind, machinery, equipment, refrigerators, washing machines, plumbing
fixtures, household and office furniture and fixtures and any other similar
articles in such condition.
      ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A police officer, Public Works Superintendent, City
Administrator or any other person authorized or directed by the City Council to
enforce the provisions of this section.
      PUBLIC PREMISES. Any premises owned by or in possession of the United
States of America, the State of Minnesota, the County of Carver, or the City of
Mayer, or any agency or political subdivision of any of those governmental
bodies.
   (D)   Storage prohibited. No person shall place or leave or cause to be
placed or left, abandoned property on public premises within the city; nor
keep, store or cause to be placed, left, kept or stored abandoned property on
private premises within the city, except as may be otherwise permitted under
the terms of the Mayer Zoning Ordinance.
   (E)   Removal from public premises.
      (1)   When an Enforcement Officer shall find an article or articles of
abandoned property on public premises within the city, the Officer shall cause
a notice to be placed upon the article in substantially the following form:
“NOTICE TO THE OWNER AND ALL PERSONS INTERESTED IN THE ATTACHED PROPERTY: This
property, to wit: (setting forth brief description) is unlawfully upon public
property known as (setting forth brief description of location), and in
violation of § 90.01 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances, and must be removed
within ten (10) days from the date of this notice; otherwise, it shall be
presumed to be abandoned property and will be removed and destroyed by order of
the City of Mayer. Dated this (setting forth date of posting of notice).
Signed: (setting forth title, address and telephone number of Enforcement
Officer).”
      (2)   Such notice shall be not less than eight inches by ten inches and
shall be sufficiently weatherproof to withstand normal exposure to the
elements. In addition to posting, the Enforcement Officer shall make reasonable
efforts to ascertain the name and address of the owner of the article or
articles, and if such is reasonably available to the Enforcement Officer, he or
she shall mail a copy of the notice to the owner on or before the date of
posting.
      (3)   If, at the end of ten days after posting the notice, the owner or
any person interested in the abandoned article or articles described in the
notice has not removed them from the public premises or shown reasonable cause
for failure to do so, the Enforcement Officer may cause the article or articles
of abandoned property to be removed, destroyed and disposed of.
   (F)   Removal from private premises.
      (1)   Whenever an Enforcement Officer shall find an article or articles
of abandoned property on private premises within the city in violation of this
subchapter, the Officer shall cause a notice to be placed upon the article in
substantially the following form:
“NOTICE TO THE OWNER AND ALL PERSONS INTERESTED IN THE ATTACHED PROPERTY: This
property, to wit: (setting forth brief description) is unlawfully upon public
property known as (setting forth brief description of location), and in
violation of § 90.01 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances, and must be removed
within ten (10) days from the date of this notice; otherwise, it shall be
presumed to be abandoned property and will be removed and destroyed by order of
the City of Mayer. Dated this (setting forth date of posting of notice).
Signed: (setting forth title, address and telephone number of Enforcement
Officer).”
      (2)   Such notice shall be not less than eight inches by ten inches and
shall be sufficiently weatherproof to withstand normal exposure to the
elements. In addition to posting, the Enforcement Officer shall mail a copy of
the notice to the owner of the real property upon which the abandoned article
or articles are located, as shown by the real estate tax records on or before
the date of posting of the notice.
      (3)   If, at the end of ten days after posting the notice, the owner or
any person interested in the abandoned article or articles described in the
notice has not removed the article or articles and complied with the
regulations cited in the notice, or shown reasonable cause for failure to do
so, or the article or articles have been removed to another location within the
city, including any public premises, where storage of the article or articles
is prohibited by division (D) of this section, the Enforcement Officer may
cause the article or articles of abandoned property to be removed, destroyed
and disposed of.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, OWNER OF REAL PROPERTY shall mean
the person who is the last owner of record or the fee owner or the contract
purchaser or the agent of the aforementioned person.
   (G)   Other ordinances not affected. This section shall not be construed to
repeal, suspend or modify the provisions of any other ordinance relating to the
abandonment or keeping of articles or materials of any kind which are hazardous
to public health, safety or welfare upon any premises.
   (H)   Disposition of abandoned property.
      (1)   Procedure. Except for abandoned and junked vehicles, and except for
abandoned property as defined in division (C)(1) above, all property lawfully
coming into possession of the city shall be disposed of as provided in this
section which is adopted pursuant to M.S. § 471.195, as it may be amended from
time to time. Abandoned and junked vehicles shall be disposed of according to
the procedures of §§
90.15 through
90.25.
      (2)   Storage. The department of the city acquiring possession of the
property shall arrange for its storage. If city facilities are unavailable or
inadequate, the department may arrange for storage at a privately-owned
facility.
      (3)   Claim by owner. The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance
costs incurred by it. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release
to the owner.
      (4)   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the
city for 60 days, the property shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conducted by the City Clerk or his or her designee after two weeks’
published notice setting forth the time and place of the sale and the property
to be sold.
      (5)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale shall be placed
in the general fund of the city. If the former owner makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale, the
former owner shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of the property less the
costs of storage and the proportionate part of the cost of published notice and
other costs of the sale.
(Am. Ord. 130, passed 8-14-06)
**** ABANDONED VEHICLES ****
§ 90.15 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   M.S. Ch. 168B, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7035, as they may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted by reference. Sections
90.15 through
90.25 of this code are adopted under the authority of M.S. § 168B.09, Subd. 2,
as it may be amended from time to time. If any of these provisions are less
stringent that the provisions of M.S. § 168B or Minn. Rules Ch. 7035, as they
may be amended from time to time, the statute or rule shall take precedence.
§ 90.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle, as defined in M.S. § 169.01, as it may be amended
from time to time,that:
         (a)   Has remained illegally:
            1.   For a period of more than 48 hours on any property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, or more than four hours on that property
when it is properly posted; or
            2.   On private property for a period of time, as determined under
§
90.18(B), without the consent of the person in control of the property; and
         (b)   Lacks vital component parts or is in an inoperable condition
that it has no substantial potential for further use consistent with its usual
functions, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building.
      (2)   A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. § 168.10 as it may
be amended from time to time, is not considered an abandoned vehicle.
      (3)   Vehicles on the premises of junk yards and automobile graveyards
that are defined, maintained, and licensed in accordance with M.S. § 161.242 as
it may be amended from time to time, or that are licensed and maintained in
accordance with local laws and zoning regulations, are not considered abandoned
vehicles.
      (4)   A vehicle being held for storage by agreement or being held under
police authority or pursuant to a writ or court order is not considered
abandoned, nor may it be processed as abandoned while the police hold, writ or
court order is in effect.
   DEPARTMENT. The Minnesota Department of Public Safety.
   IMPOUND. To take and hold a vehicle in legal custody. There are two types of
impounds: public and nonpublic.
    IMPOUND LOT OPERATOR or OPERATOR. A person who engages in impounding or
storing, usually temporarily, unauthorized or abandoned vehicles. OPERATOR
includes an operator of a public or nonpublic impound lot, regardless of
whether tow truck service is provided.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle that:
      (1)   Is three years old or older;
      (2)   Is extensively damaged, with the damage including things as broken
or missing wheels, motor, drive train or transmission;
      (3)   Is apparently inoperable;
      (4)   Does not have a valid, current registration plate; and
      (5)   Has an approximate fair market value equal only to the approximate
value of the scrap init.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Has the meaning given “motor vehicle” in M.S. §
169.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   MOTOR VEHICLE WASTE. Solid waste and liquid wastes derived in the operation
of or in the recycling of a motor vehicle, including such things as tires and
used motor oil, but excluding scrap metal.
   MPCA or AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NONPUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot that is not a public impound lot.
   PUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot owned by or contracting with a unit of
government under section §
90.24.
   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is subject to removal and impoundment
pursuant to §
90.18(B), or M.S. § 169.041 as it may be amended from time to time, but is not
a junk vehicle or an abandoned vehicle.
   UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. Includes a state department or agency, a special purpose
district, and a county, statutory or home rule charter city, or town.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential to
the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including such things as the motor,
drive train and wheels.
§ 90.17 VIOLATION TO ABANDON MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Any person who abandons a motor vehicle on any public or private property,
without the consent of the person in control of the property, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.18 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Abandoned or junk vehicles. The City Clerk or his or her designee or
any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by the city may
take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk vehicle.
   (B)   Unauthorized vehicles. The City Clerk, or his or her designee, or any
peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by the city may
take into custody and impound any unauthorized vehicle under M.S. § 169.041 as
it may be amended from time to time. A vehicle may also be impounded after it
has been left unattended in one of the following public or private locations
for the indicated period of time:
      (1)   In a public location not governed by M.S. § 169.041 as it may be
amended from time to time:
         (a)   On a highway and properly tagged by a peace officer, four hours;
         (b)   Located so as to constitute an accident or traffic hazard to the
traveling public, as determined by a peace officer, immediately; or
         (c)   That is a parking facility or other public property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, properly posted, four hours; or
      (2)    On private property:
         (a)   That is single-family or duplex residential property,
immediately;
         (b)   That is private, nonresidential property, properly posted,
immediately;
         (c)   That is private, nonresidential property, not posted, 24 hours;
or
         (d)   That is any residential property, properly posted, immediately.
§ 90.19 SALE; WAITING PERIODS.
   (A)   Sale after 15 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under §
90.23, 15 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is determined to be:
      (1)   A junk vehicle, except that it may have a valid, current
registration plate and still be eligible for disposal or sale under this
subdivision; or
      (2)   An abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   Sale after 45 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under §
90.23, 45 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is determined to be an
unauthorized vehicle.
§ 90.20 NOTICE OF TAKING AND SALE.
   (A)   Contents; notice given within five days. When an impounded vehicle is
taken into custody, the city or impound lot operator taking it into custody
shall give notice of the taking within five days, excluded Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays, to the registered vehicle owner and any lienholders. The
notice must:
      (1)   Set forth the date and place of the taking; the year, make, model
and serial number of the impounded motor vehicle if the information can be
reasonably obtained; and the place where the vehicle is being held;
      (2)   Inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to reclaim the
vehicle under §
90.21; and
      (3)   State that failure of the owner or lienholders to exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle and contents within the appropriate time allowed
under §
90.19 shall be deemed a waiver by them of all right, title and interest in the
vehicle and contents and a consent to the transfer of title to and disposal or
sale of the vehicle and contents pursuant to §
90.23.
   (B)   Notice by mail or publication. The notice shall be sent by mail to the
registered owner, if any, of an impounded vehicle and to all readily
identifiable lienholders of record. The Department makes this information
available to impound lot operators for notification purposes. If it is
impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and address of
the registered owner and all lienholders, the notice shall be published once in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was
towed from or abandoned. Published notices may be grouped together for
convenience and economy.
   (C)   Unauthorized vehicles; notice. If an unauthorized vehicle remains
unclaimed after 30 days from the date the notice was sent under division (B) of
this section, a second notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the registered owner, if any, of the unauthorized vehicle and to
all readily identifiable lienholders of record.
(Am. Ord. 168, passed 6-26-10)
§ 90.21 RIGHT TO RECLAIM.
   (A)   Payment of charges. The owner or any lienholder of an impounded
vehicle shall have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the city or impound lot
operator taking it into custody upon payment of all towing and storage charges
resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15 or 45 days, as
applicable under §
90.19, after the date of the notice required by §
90.20.
   (B)   Lienholders. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair any
lien of a garagekeeper under the laws of this state, or the right of a
lienholder to foreclose. For the purposes of this section, GARAGEKEEPER is an
operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle
storage facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair
or maintenance of motor vehicles.
§ 90.22 OPERATOR'S DEFICIENCY CLAIM; CONSENT TO SALE.
   (A)   Deficiency claim. The nonpublic impound lot operator has a deficiency
claim against the registered owner of the vehicle for the reasonable costs of
services provided in the towing, storage and inspection of the vehicle minus
the proceeds of the sale or auction. The claim for storage costs may not exceed
the costs of:
      (1)   25 days storage for a vehicle described in section §
90.19(A); and
      (2)   55 days storage for a vehicle described in §
90.19(B).
   (B)   Implied consent to sale. A registered owner who fails to claim the
impounded vehicle within the applicable time period allowed under section §
90.19 is deemed to waive any right to reclaim the vehicle and consents to the
disposal or sale of the vehicle and its contents and transfer of title.
§ 90.23 DISPOSITION BY IMPOUND LOT.
   (A)   Auction or sale.
      (1)   If an abandoned or unauthorized vehicle and contents taken into
custody by the city or any impound lot is not reclaimed under §
90.21, it may be disposed of or sold at auction or sale when eligible pursuant
to §§
90.20 and
90.21.
      (2)   The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the
vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle
and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and claims of
ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it must
receive a motor vehicle safety check.
   (B)   Unsold vehicles. Abandoned or junk vehicles not sold by the city or
public impound lots pursuant to division (A) of this section shall be disposed
of in accordance with section §
90.24.
   (C)   Sale proceeds; public entities. From the proceeds of a sale under this
section by the city or public impound lot of an abandoned or unauthorized motor
vehicle, the city shall reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and
storing the vehicle, and all administrative, notice and publication costs
incurred in handling the vehicle pursuant to this chapter. Any remainder from
the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner of the vehicle or entitled
lienholder for 90 days and then shall be deposited in the treasury of the city.
   (D)   Sale proceeds; nonpublic impound lots. The operator of a nonpublic
impound lot may retain any proceeds derived from a sale conducted under the
authority of division (A) of this section. The operator may retain all proceeds
from sale of any personal belongings and contents in the vehicle that were not
claimed by the owner or the owner's agent before the sale, except that any
suspected contraband or other items that likely would be subject to forfeiture
in a criminal trial must be turned over to the appropriate law enforcement
agency.
§ 90.24 DISPOSAL AUTHORITY.
   The city may contract with others or may utilize its own equipment and
personnel for the inventory of impounded motor vehicles and abandoned scrap
metal and may utilize its own equipment and personnel for the collection,
storage and transportation of these vehicles and abandoned scrap metal. The
city may utilize its own equipment and personnel only for the collection and
storage of not more than five abandoned or unauthorized vehicles without
advertising for or receiving bids in any 120-day period.
§ 90.25 CONTRACTS; REIMBURSEMENT BY MPCA.
   (A)   MPCA review and approval. If the city proposes to enter into a
contract with a person licensed by the MPCA pursuant to this section or a
contract pursuant to section §
90.24, the MPCA may review the proposed contract before it is entered into by
the city, to determine whether it conforms to the MPCA's plan for solid waste
management and is in compliance with MPCA rules. A contract that does so
conform may be approved by the MPCA and entered into by the city. Where a
contract has been approved, the MPCA may reimburse the city for the costs
incurred under the contract that have not been reimbursed under section §
90.23. Except as otherwise provided in §
90.24, the MPCA shall not approve any contract that has been entered into
without prior notice to and request for bids from all persons duly licensed by
the MPCA to be a party to a disposal contract pursuant to M.S. § 116.07, as it
may be amended from time to time; does not provide for a full performance bond;
or does not provide for total collection and transportation of abandoned motor
vehicles, except that the MPCA may approve a contract covering solely
collection or transportation of abandoned motor vehicles where the MPCA
determines total collection and transportation to be impracticable and where
all other requirements herein have been met and the unit of government, after
proper notice and request for bids, has not received any bid for total
collection and transportation of abandoned motor vehicles.
   (B)    The city may perform work. If the city utilizes its own equipment and
personnel pursuant to its authority under §
90.24, and the use of the equipment and personnel conforms to the MPCA's plan
for solid waste management and is in compliance with MPCA rules, the city may
be reimbursed by the MPCA for reasonable costs incurred which are not
reimbursed under section §
90.23.
   (C)   The city required to contract work. The MPCA may demand that the city
contract for the disposal of abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal
pursuant to the MPCA's plan for solid waste disposal. If the city fails to
contract within 180 days of the demand, the MPCA, through the Department of
Administration and on behalf of the city, may contract with any person duly
licensed by the MPCA for the disposal.
CHAPTER 91: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Purpose and scope
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Compliance; registration and functions
   
91.05   User fees
   
91.06   Enforcement
   
91.07   Violations
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Alarm Systems
Chapter,” except as herein referred to as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 60, passed 7-8-82)
§ 91.02 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public safety services which
serve the city from misuse and to provide for the maximum possible service to
alarm users. This chapter provides regulation for the use of burglary, robbery,
fire and medical alarms and establishes a system of administration and an alarm
user fee.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-8-82)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any equipment or device which emits an audible, visual or
electronic signal upon the detection of a potential burglary, robbery, fire
medical emergency, trespass or property intrusion. ALARM SYSTEM does not
include an anti-theft or tampering alarm installed in any motor vehicle.
   ALARM USER. Any person in control of any building, structure, facility or
tract of land wherein or whereon an alarm system is used or maintained within
the city.
   FALSE ALARMS. An alarm signal creating a response by public safety personnel
when a situation requiring a response does not exist, and which is caused by
the activation of the alarm system through mechanical failure, alarm
malfunction, improper installation or the inadvertence of the owner or lessee
of the alarm system or of his or her employees or agents. FALSE ALARMS do not
include alarms caused by climatic conditions such as tornadoes, thunderstorms,
utility line mishaps, violent conditions of nature or any other conditions
which are clearly beyond the control of the alarm manufacturer, installer or
alarm user.
   PERSON. Any human being, corporation, partnership, firm, association or
other organization, receiver, trustee, assignee, agent or other legal
representative of any of the foregoing or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS CENTER. The central facility used to receive
emergency requests for public safety services and general information from the
public to be dispatched to public safety personnel.
   PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL. All personnel employed by any law enforcement
agency and any fire fighting personnel and any ambulance personnel.
   SHERIFF. The Carver County Sheriff or his or her designee.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-8-82)
§ 91.04 COMPLIANCE; REGISTRATION AND FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall locate, install, construct, alter, repair, use or
maintain any alarm system within the city, except in full compliance with this
chapter and the standards adopted herein.
   (B)   All audible alarm systems shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Every person maintaining an alarm system with an audible alarm
signal shall put a notice containing the name and telephone number of a person
to be notified to render repairs or services to the alarm system during any
hour of the day or night activation of the alarm system. The notice shall be
posted at the main entrance to the premises or near the alarm in a position as
to be legible from the ground level adjacent to the building.
      (2)   Alarm systems with audible alarm signals that sound like police or
fire sirens are prohibited.
      (3)   All alarm systems with audible alarm signals, except for fire
alarms, shall have an automatic shut-off which will silence the audible alarm
signal within a period not to exceed 15 minutes.
   (C)   (1)   All persons using or maintaining any alarm system within the
city shall register the alarm system with the Sheriff, utilizing registration
forms to be furnished by the Sheriff, no later than the following dates:
         (a)   Sixty days after the effective date of the chapter; or
         (b)   Thirty days after the installation of the alarm system.
      (2)   Any alteration or modification of any previously registered alarm
system shall be registered with the Sheriff, utilizing registration forms to be
furnished by the Sheriff, within 30 days of the commencement of the alteration
or modification.
   (D)   Financial institutions having alarm systems with a robbery signal
feature, shall have an on- premises annunciator panel providing specific
annunciation of the sensors on a private monitoring location on the premises.
When, in the judgment of the Sheriff, no on-premises monitoring location is
feasible, the requirements of this section may be waived by the Sheriff. All
alarm systems installed in financial institutions after the effective date of
this chapter shall have the annunciator for panels when installed. All alarm
systems currently used by financial institutions shall have the annunciator
panels installed within one year from the effective date of this chapter.
   (E)   Alarm systems that have more than one alarm signal function (burglary,
fire, etc.), must report specifically which function has been violated when
reporting to the Public Safety Communication Center for the purpose of
dispatching public safety personnel to the site of the alarm system.
   (F)   No alarm system shall connect directly to the Public Safety
Communications Center, except financial institutions and/or public buildings.
All other alarms must report to the Public Safety Communications Center in some
other manner. No automatic telephone dialing device shall be allowed to dial
direct or be programed so that it dials directly into the Public Safety
Communications Center.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-8-82)
§ 91.05 USER FEES.
   (A)   An alarm user fee is hereby imposed upon any alarm user from whose
alarm system emanates more than two false alarms within any 12 consecutive
month period. The fee payable under this section shall be the fee established
from time to time by Carver County Board ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   All federal, state, county and/or municipal buildings and all
public schools shall be exempt from the alarm user fee.
      (2)   All newly installed alarm systems are hereby granted a 30-day
probationary period, commencing on the date of first operational use thereof,
during which period false alarm will not be counted for the purpose of
computing the amount of any alarm user fee imposed by this chapter.
      (3)   All alarm systems which are altered by the addition to any new
alarm feature are hereby granted a 15-day probationary period, commencing on
the date of first operational use of the new feature, during which period false
alarms will not be counted for the purpose of computing the amount of any alarm
user fee imposed by this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Subsequent to any false alarm, the Sheriff shall notify the
affected alarm user in writing of the date of the false alarm, the apparent
reason therefor, and the alarm user fee is required, pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each alarm user to pay all alarm user fees
imposed by this chapter to the Sheriff within 30 days of the date of mailing of
the Sheriff’s fee statement specifying the amount of alarm user fees.
      (3)   For the purpose of mailing the Sheriff’s fee statement under this
section, the statement shall be mailed to the affected alarm user at his, her
or its address shown on the registration form required by §
91.04 (C).
      (4)   Half of all alarm user fees collected by the Sheriff shall be
remitted to the city to defray its administrative and prosecution costs
incurred in connection with the enforcement of this chapter. The other half of
the alarm user fees shall be retained by the Sheriff to defray his or her
administrative costs incurred in enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-8-82; Am. Ord. 115, passed 3-14-05)
§ 91.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If, in the judgment of public safety personnel at the scene of an
alarm, it is determined that the user should appear at the location of the
alarm for the purpose of admitting public safety personnel to the subject
premises to investigate any alarm for the purposes of deactivating any system
signal or for the purpose of identifying third parties found on the subject
premises during the investigation of any alarm system signal, the alarm user
shall appear immediately if so requested by the Sheriff.
   (B)   If an alarm user has had more than three false alarms in a 12-month
period, the alarm user, upon the written request of the Sheriff, shall be
required to submit, in written form, a description of any steps being taken to
remedy any problems with false alarms emanating from the alarm user location.
   (C)   The Sheriff shall promulgate rules and regulations as necessary for
the implementation and/or administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-8-82)
§ 91.07 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Injunctive relief. In the event of a violation or a threat of
violation of this chapter, the city may institute appropriate action or
proceeding, including requesting injunctive relief to prevent, restrain,
correct or abate the violation or threatened violation.
   (B)   Civil action. If a person fails to comply with the provisions of this
chapter, the city may recover costs, damages or alarm user fees in a civil
action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Governmental services lien. In addition to the remedies specified in
division (A) above, but in lieu of the remedy specified in division (B) above,
the city may certify any unpaid alarm user fees to the County Auditor or County
Finance Director as a governmental service lien for collection with the real
property taxes imposed on the real property upon which the alarm system is or
was located.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-8-82)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Dogs and cats
   
92.03   Non-domestic animals
   
92.04   Farm animals
   
92.05   Impounding
   
92.06   (Reserved)
   
92.07   Nuisances
   
92.08   Seizure of animals
   
92.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
92.10   Diseased animals
   
92.11   Dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs regulations adopted by
reference
   
92.12   (Reserved)
   
92.13   Basic care
   
92.14   Breeding moratorium
   
92.15   Enforcing officer
   
92.16   Pound
   
92.17   Interference with officers
   
92.18   Beekeeping
Chickens
   
92.30   Purpose and scope
   
92.31   Keeping of chickens
   
92.32   License required
   
92.33   Duration of license and fee
   
92.34   Right of entry for inspections
   
92.35   License subject to terms and conditions of this subchapter, private
restrictions and revocation
   
92.36   Limitations on keeping of chickens
   
92.37   Violators and penalties
 
   
92.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non- constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm
animals shall include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, non- domestic animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   APIARY. The assembly of one (1) or more colonies of honeybees at a single
location.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
   BEEKEEPER. A person who owns or has charge of one (1) or more colonies of
honeybees.
   BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT. Anything used in the operation of an apiary, such as
hive bodies, supers, frames, top and bottom boards and extractors.
    CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   COLONY. An aggregate of honeybees consisting principally of workers, but
having, when perfect, one queen and at times drones, brood, combs, and honey.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   HIVE. The receptacle inhabited by a colony that is manufactured for that
purpose.
   HONEYBEE. All life stages of the common domestic honeybee, Apis mellifera
species of European origin.
   NUCLEUS COLONY. A small quantity of honeybees with a queen housed in a
smaller than usual hive box designed for a particular purpose.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Animal Control Officer or other
person in charge of the pound for the release of any animal that has been taken
to the pound. A release permit may be obtained upon payment of a release fee,
payment of any maintenance costs incurred in capturing and impounding the
animal, and, if the animal is a dog or cat, presentation of a valid certificate
of vaccination for rabies and distemper shots. The release fee shall be as
established by resolution of the City Council.
   SUPER. That part of a honeybee hive used to collect honey.
   SWARMING. The natural process where a queen bee leaves a colony with a large
group of worker bees.
   UNUSUAL AGGRESSIVE BEHAVIOR. Any instance in which unusual aggressive
characteristics such as stinging without provocation or attacking without
provocation occurs.
(Am. Ord. 202, passed 8-24-15; Am. Ord. 230A, passed 4-8-19)
§ 92.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by leash, shall be
permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has posted an area with
signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
   (B)   Cats. Cats shall be included as controlled by this division insofar as
running-at-large, pickup, impounding, and boarding is concerned. All other
provisions of this section shall also apply to cats unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian qualified to practice in the state in which the dog or cat is
vaccinated for:
         (a)   Rabies - with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner’s name and address, the animal’s name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian’s signature. Upon demand made by the City Clerk, the Animal
Control Officer or a police officer, the owner shall present for examination
the required certificate(s) of vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where
certificates are not presented, the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have
seven days in which to present the certificate(s) to the City Clerk or officer.
Failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of this section.
   (D)   Limitation.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any residence in the city to possess, harbor,
shelter or keep more than three adult dogs and cats, excepting veterinary
hospitals and pet shops, or other establishments, properly licensed by the
city. For purposes of this division (D), an ADULT ANIMAL shall be deemed to be
any animal six months or older.
      (2)   Maintaining multiple animals. No more than a total of three adult
dogs and cats may be maintained at one residence, at any time, without first
obtaining a multiple animal license from the city. In no event shall more than
a total of five adult dogs and cats be maintained at one residence.
         (a)   License procedure. Application for a multiple animal license
must be made to the city and accompanied by the license fee that the City
Council shall establish from time to time in the city fee schedule.
         (b)   Approval of contiguous property owners. The application for a
multiple animal license shall be accompanied by a petition showing the approval
of the occupants of privately owned real estate abutting the premises on which
the multiple animal residence is to be located.
         (c)   Granting or denial of license; conditions. Whether or not all of
the occupants of abutting property approve the application, the city may grant
or deny the license. The multiple animal license will not be granted unless the
city finds that the use of the applicant’s premises with multiple animals will
not have any adverse effect upon adjacent properties or the occupancy thereof,
and will not constitute a nuisance to the neighborhood. A license will only be
granted if the keeping of the dogs or cats is incidental to the occupancy of
the premises for residential purposes. The city may impose conditions on the
granting of a license in order to minimize or mitigate possible adverse
impacts.
         (d)   Reduction in number. Each license will be conditioned upon a
requirement that the total number of animals maintained be reduced through
attrition to no more than three within a time frame as designated by the city.
         (e)   Maintenance of property. Properties holding a multiple animal
license shall be maintained in a clean and healthful condition at all times,
and shall be open to inspection by the city at all reasonable times.
         (f)   Rejection of license; appeal process. If an application is
rejected, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision of the
city, the reason for the denial, and the applicant’s right to appeal the denial
to the City Council. Within seven days of receiving the notice, the applicant
must appeal the decision in writing to the city. The City Council will hear the
appeal at a regularly scheduled meeting.
         (g)   Revocation. The City Council may revoke a multiple animal
license for any violation of this chapter or any other law relating to the
keeping of animals, after a hearing as provided in this division (D). The city
shall give the licensee at least five days’ written notice of the meeting at
which the revocation will be considered by mailing the notice to the licensee
at the address in the application. The City Council will give the licensee an
opportunity to be heard at the meeting.
         (h)   Multiple animal license fee. The multiple animal license fee
shall be in such amount as provided in the fee schedule for the city.
      (3)   No person, firm, or corporation shall maintain in this city a
kennel.
(Am. Ord. 135, passed 7-9-07; Am. Ord. 175, passed 11-28-11; Am. Ord. 219,
passed 4-23-18; Am. Ord. 230A, passed 4-8-19) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal within the city. Any owner of a non-domestic
animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound the
animal as provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the city, or
on a residential lot of at least ten acres in size provided that no animal
shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece of property. An
exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought into the city
as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
§ 92.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any animal running at large is hereby declared a
public nuisance. Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may impound any
dog or other animal found running at large and shall give notice of the
impounding to the owner of the dog or other animal, if known. In case the owner
is unknown, the officer shall post notice at the city office that if the dog or
other animal is not claimed within the time specified in division (C) of this
section, it will be sold or otherwise disposed of. Except as otherwise provided
in this section, it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause
injury to any animal, including dogs and cats running at large.
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner’s choosing, not outside of the county in which this city is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner’s property.
   (C)   Reclaiming. All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with
humane treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five
regular business days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under
§
92.11 in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
92.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by resolution of the City Council.
      (2)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   Presentation of a valid certificate of vaccination for rabies and
distemper shots if the animal is a dog or cat.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals.
      (1)   At the expiration of the times established in division (C) of this
section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in accordance with the provisions
of this section, the owner shall be deemed to have forfeited all rights to the
animal and the officer appointed to enforce this section shall, in the
following order:
         (a)   Attempt to place the animal for adoption through a “no-kill”
animal rescue;
         (b)   Let any person claim the animal by complying with all provisions
of this section;
         (c)   Cause such animal to be disposed of in a proper and humane
manner.
      (2)   All money collected under this section shall be payable to the City
Treasurer.
(Am. Ord. 136, passed 6-25-07; Am. Ord. 230A, passed 4-8-19) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 (RESERVED).
§ 92.07 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks, yelps or cries. HABITUAL BARKING, YELPING
OR CRYING  shall be defined as barking for repeated intervals of at least three
minutes with less than one minute of interruption, or repeated intervals of
barking for a period of 30 minutes or more with no more than five minutes of
interruption between barking intervals. The barking must be audible off of the
owner’s or caretaker’s premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person’s dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in §
92.05.
(Am. Ord. 128, passed 4-24-06) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal provided that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
92.07(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
92.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
92.01(E);
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
dog and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The seizure will not involve the forced entry into a private
residence. Use of a pass key obtained from a property manager, landlord,
innkeeper, or other authorized person to have that key shall not be considered
unauthorized entry; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the dog is not possible.
§ 92.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the Animal Control Officer or
police officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety
of any person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the
animal is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may
destroy the animal in a proper and humane manner. Otherwise, the person or
officer may apprehend the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement
under §
92.05. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal destroyed
shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is found
not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to
the owner or keeper in accordance with §
92.05(C).
§ 92.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the city for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
(Am. Ord. 230A, passed 4-8-19) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE.
   (A)   Code adopted by reference. Chapter 92 of the Carver County Code
pertaining to dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs as authorized by M.S. §§
347.51, Subd. 8, and 347.565, including all amendments thereto adopted and
published from time to time by the Carver County Board of Commissioners, is
hereby adopted by the City of Mayer and incorporated in this chapter by
reference as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   Application, administration and enforcement. The application,
administration, and enforcement of this section in the City of Mayer shall be
by the “Animal Control Authority” as defined in § 6 of Chapter 92 of the Carver
County Code.
(Ord. 195, passed 10-27-14)
§ 92.12 (RESERVED).
§ 92.13 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided in this section.
§ 92.14 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog or
cat except for planned breeding. Upon capture and failure to reclaim the
animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred
to a new owner.
§ 92.15 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an animal control officer(s) to
enforce the provisions of this section. In the officer’s duty of enforcing the
provisions of this section, he or she may from time to time, with the consent
of the City Council, designate assistants.
§ 92.16 POUND.
   Every year the Council shall designate an official pound to which animals
found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if
necessary, for destruction.
§ 92.17 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in that operation. Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 BEEKEEPING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish certain
requirements for beekeeping within the city and to avoid conflicts which might
otherwise be associated with beekeeping in populated areas, all for the sake of
preserving the safety and well-being of the community.
   (B)   Standards of practice.
      (1)   Honeybee colonies meeting the requirements of this ordinance may be
kept within the A Agricultural, C/I Commercial/Industrial and P/I public
institutional districts.
      (2)   No more than six hives or two colonies may be located on a lot.
      (3)   No hive shall occupy any front yard.
      (4)   No hive shall exceed 20 cubic feet in volume.
      (5)   No hive shall be located closer than ten feet from a public
sidewalk, 25 feet from a principal building on an abutting lot, three feet from
any side or rear property line, within 200 feet of a school or licensed child
day care center and no hive shall be kept or maintained within any required
front yard.
      (6)   A flyway barrier at least six feet in height shall shield any part
of a property line that is within 25 feet of a hive. The flyway barrier shall
consist of a wall, fence, dense vegetation or a combination thereof and it
shall be positioned to transect both legs of a triangle extending from an apex
at the hive to each end point of the part of the property line to be shielded.
      (7)   A constant supply of water shall be provided within 25 feet of all
hives.
      (8)   No colonies or hives shall be kept upon any land not owned or
possessed by the keeper of such bees. The owner shall obtain a license for
beekeeping under the requirements of this section.
      (9)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit
the keeping of bees within a school or on school grounds for the purpose of
observation, or within a physician’s office or laboratory for the purpose of
medical research, treatment, or other scientific purposes.
   (C)   Application for license. An application for a license to keep bees
shall be made to the city upon forms furnished by the city prior to installing,
altering or establishing a colony of bees within a hive. A license must be
obtained to assure that all colonies and hives meet all requirements of this
section.
      (1)   The Application shall include the following data.
         (a)   Name and address of applicant/property owner.
         (b)   Legal description of the property.
         (c)   A site plan or survey, if deemed necessary by the city,
illustrating the dimensions of the property, including location and distances
of neighboring residences and the location of the hive(s) in relation to any
property lines, sidewalk, alleys, and right-of-ways.
         (d)   Location of any schools or licensed child day care center.
      (2)   All applications shall be accompanied by an application fee, if any
is required by the city.
      (3)   Upon establishment of the colony and placement of the hive(s) and
after all requirements of this section are met, the city shall issue a license
upon a form furnished by the city. The license shall be good for a period of
one year at which time the applicant shall renew the license. The renewal shall
be accompanied by a renewal fee, if any is required by the city and
notification by the city is not required for renewal of a license.
      (4)   Upon initial registration or change of address within the city, the
city shall notify in writing all owners of lots within 200 feet of any lot line
of the apiary site, of the presence of said apiary.
      (5)   Any resident within 200 feet of any lot line of an apiary site may
file a written appeal of the approval of the initial registration to the City
Administrator, or their designee, if an appeal is filed, the beekeeper will be
notified in writing by the City Administrator or their designee.
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   Honeybee colonies shall be kept in hives with removable frames,
which frames shall be kept in sound and usable condition.
      (2)   Materials from a hive or colony which might encourage the presence
of honeybees, such as wax comb, shall be promptly disposed of in a sealed
container or placed within a building or other bee-proof enclosure.
      (3)   For each colony permitted to be maintained under this section,
there may also be maintained upon the same apiary site, one nucleus colony in a
hive structure not to exceed one standard 9 5/8 inch depth ten-frame hive body,
with no supers.
      (4)   Beekeeping equipment shall be maintained in good condition. Unused
beekeeping equipment must be protected to prevent occupancy by swarming
honeybees.
      (5)   Hives shall be continuously managed to provide adequate living
space for their resident honeybees in order to control swarming.
      (6)   In any instance in which a colony exhibits unusual aggressive
behavior, it shall be the duty of the beekeeper to promptly implement
appropriate actions to address the behavior.
      (7)   If requeening is required, queens shall be selected from European
stock bred for gentleness and non-swarming characteristics.
      (8)   Fruit trees and other flowering trees, which are located on an
apiary site, shall not be sprayed, while in full bloom, with any substance
which is injurious to honeybees.
   (E)   Compliance and inspection.
      (1)   Upon receipt of credible information that any colony or hive
located within the city is not being kept in compliance with this section, the
City Administrator shall cause an investigation to be conducted. If the
investigation shows that a violation may exist and will continue, the City
Administrator shall cause a written notice of hearing to be issued to the
owner. Notices shall be given by certified U.S. mail or personal delivery.
However, if the owner cannot be located, then notice may be given by
publication in the official newspaper, at least seven days before the hearing.
The notice shall set forth the following.
         (a)   The date, the time and the place that the hearing will be held,
which date shall be not more than 30 days from the date of the notice.
         (b)   The violation alleged.
         (c)   That the owner may appear in person or through counsel, present
evidence, and cross examine witnesses.
         (d)   That if the City Council finds that the colonies or hives have
been kept in violation of this section, and if the violation is not remediated
within the time allowed, the colonies or hives may be ordered removed and/or
destroyed.
      (2)   No hearing and no order shall be required for the destruction of
honeybees not residing in a hive structure that is intended for beekeeping.
      (3)   Upon prior notice to the owner of the apiary site, the chief of
police or his/her designee shall have the right to inspect any apiary for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with this section.
      (4)   It shall be deemed a violation of this section for any person to
resist, impede or hinder City Administrator or his/her designee in the
performance of their duties in inspecting any apiary and surrounding grounds.
   (F)   Denial, revocation or suspension.
      (1)   Registrations issued under the provisions of this section may be
denied, revoked or suspended by the City Administrator after notice and the
right to request a hearing, for any of the following causes:
         (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements on the registration
or during the course of the registered activity.
         (b)   The keeping of honeybees in an unlawful manner or a manner so as
to constitute a breach of peace, or to constitute a nuisance to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public.
   (G)   Any violation of this section. Notice of the denial, revocation or
suspension, shall be in writing, specifically set forth the grounds for denial,
revocation or suspension and the person’s right to request a hearing before the
city manager or his/her designee. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid,
to the person to his/her last known address, or shall be delivered in the same
manner as a summons. Any person who desires a hearing before the city manager
or his/her designee must request the hearing in writing, within seven days of
the date of the notice, by filing a written request for a hearing with the
chief of police. If a hearing is requested it shall be held before the City
Administrator or designee within 30 days of the request. The city shall notify
the person in writing of the time, date and location of the hearing at least
five days prior to the hearing. Within seven days after the hearing the City
Administrator or designee shall issue a written decision in the matter and that
decision shall be final. If the person fails to request a hearing within seven
days of the date of the notice, the denial, suspension, or revocation shall
automatically be deemed final. The right to request a hearing before the City
Administrator or his/her designee shall be in place of any right to appeal.
(Ord. 202, passed 8-24-15) Penalty, see §
92.99
**** CHICKENS ****
§ 92.30 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   It is recognized that the ability to cultivate one’s own food is a
sustainable activity that can also be a rewarding past time. Therefore, it is
the purpose and intent of this subchapter, subject to the conditions and
requirements of this subchapter, to permit the limited keeping and maintenance
of chicken hens for eggs and meet sources in a clean and sanitary manner that
is not a nuisance to or detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare of
the community.
(Ord. 191, passed 2-24-14)
§ 92.31 KEEPING OF CHICKENS.
   The raising, harboring, maintaining and keeping of chickens in the City of
Mayer is prohibited except as provided by this subchapter and except as may be
allowed in the City of Mayer agricultural zoning districts.
(Ord. 191, passed 2-24-14)
§ 92.32 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A license is required for any person seeking to keep chickens as allowed by
this subchapter. An applicant must complete an application form provided by the
city. Any amendment to an existing license shall constitute a new application
and fee. The application shall include, but not limited to the following
information:
   (A)   Written, dated and signed consents from at least 75% of the owners of
all properties within 200 feet of the applicant’s property. Such consents may
also be required upon any request for renewal of the license.
   (B)   A scaled drawing (site plan) showing the location, size, and
dimensions of all structures (coops and the like) and containment areas for the
chickens including the distance of all structures and containment areas from
adjoining structures and neighboring property lines and city setback
requirements.
   (C)   The number of chickens to be kept on site.
   (D)   Detailed feces and waste removal plan.
   (E)   An agreement by the applicant that the premises may be inspected by
the city at all reasonable times to ensure compliance with all applicable
conditions.
   (F)   A statement that the applicant understands the conditions and
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 191, passed 2-24-14)
§ 92.33 DURATION OF LICENSE AND FEE.
   (A)   Each license issued under this subchapter shall expire on December 31
in the year of issuance unless sooner revoked. A license shall be renewed
annually to continue the limited keeping of chickens.
   (B)   The annual fee for a license shall be in such amount as set forth in
the City fee Ordinance, which shall be paid at the time of the making of the
application.
(Ord. 191, passed 2-24-14)
§ 92.34 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTIONS.
   The animal control officer or city administrator’s designee may enter and
inspect any property or accessory building for the keeping of chickens at any
reasonable time for the purpose of investigating an actual or suspected
violation to ascertain compliance or noncompliance with this section.
(Ord. 191, passed 2-24-14)
§ 92.35 LICENSE SUBJECT TO TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS SUBCHAPTER, PRIVATE
RESTRICTIONS AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   A license is subject to all terms and conditions of this subchapter
and any additional conditions deemed necessary by the city to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare. Private restrictions such as covenants take
precedence over the permit. A permit issued to a person whose premises are
subject to covenants that prohibit the keeping of chickens is subject to be
voided. The interpretation and enforcement of the private restrictions is the
sole responsibility of the private parties involved.
   (B)   The city may revoke a license for failure to comply with provisions of
this subchapter or any of the license’s conditions. Prior to revoking a
license, the city shall provide the owner with notice of the revocation and an
opportunity to appeal the revocation to the city council.
(Ord. 191, passed 2-24-14)
§ 92.36 LIMITATIONS ON KEEPING OF CHICKENS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. It is the intent and purpose of this section to
set standards for the limited keeping of chickens in the City of Mayer.
   (B)   Conditions. The limited keeping of chickens may be permitted as one
additional accessory use to a detached single-family property dwelling unit
subject to the following:
      (1)   The owner of the chickens shall live in the dwelling on the
property and the property owner is in receipt of a license as required by this
subchapter.
      (2)   No more than five total hen chickens shall be kept on the single-
family dwelling unit property.
      (3)   No roosters or adult male chickens shall be kept on the single-
family dwelling unit property.
      (4)   All chickens shall be kept within a separate enclosed building and/
or fenced outdoor containment area subject to the following:
         (a)   The building shall be less than 120 square feet in size and not
exceed six feet in height.
         (b)   The building shall comply with all setbacks and other standards
for accessory buildings, unless otherwise stated herein.
         (c)   Any outdoor containment area, run or exercise yard shall be
screened from view from all neighboring properties and rights-of-way. Outdoor
containment areas shall not exceed 20 square feet per bird and shall be
enclosed by a fence not to exceed six feet in height.
         (d)   Any building or containment area shall be located in the rear
yard only and shall be at least 50 feet from adjacent habitable structures.
         (e)   Fencing used to contain chickens shall comply with applicable
conditions of the City Code, but in any event shall be sufficient to contain
the chickens from being able to leave the site.
         (f)   Chickens shall not be kept within the dwelling unit or garage.
         (g)   The accessory building and/or containment area shall be
maintained in good repair, in a clean and sanitary manner, free of vermin, and
free of objectionable odors.
         (h)   Chickens shall remain in the building and/or containment area at
all times and shall not run at large.
         (i)   Chickens shall remain in the building from sunset to sunrise
each day to prevent nuisance noise and the attraction of vermin and predators.
         (j)   Leg banding of all chickens is required. The bands must identify
the owner’s name, address, and telephone number.
      (5)   The slaughter of chickens on site is prohibited.
      (6)   The raising of chickens for breeding purposes is prohibited.
      (7)   The sale of eggs or other commercial activity on the premises is
prohibited.
      (8)   Feces and discarded feed shall be regularly collected and only
stored temporarily on site in a leak-proof container with a tight-fitting cover
to prevent nuisance odors and the attraction of vermin. Such waste shall not be
composted on site.
      (9)   Chicken feed shall be stored in leak-proof containers with a tight-
fitting cover to prevent attracting vermin.
      (10)   Chicken fighting is prohibited.
      (11)   Dead chickens must be disposed of according to the Minnesota Board
of Animal Health Rules which require chicken carcasses to be disposed of as
soon as possible after death, usually within 48 to 72 hours. Legal forms of
chicken carcass disposal include offsite burial, offsite incineration or
rendering, or offsite composting.
      (12)   The holder of a license who no longer intends to keep chickens or
whose license has expired shall notify the city and remove all structures,
fences and containment areas where chickens have been kept.
(Ord. 191, passed 2-24-14)
§ 92.37 VIOLATORS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person keeping chickens without a license issued under this
subchapter or continues to keep chickens after the license has expired or been
revoked shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. If a license is revoked or a person
is found guilty of a violation of this subchapter, no new license may be issued
for a minimum period of one year after such event.
   (B)   Any person violating any conditions of this subchapter shall reimburse
the city for all costs and expenses incurred by the city to enforce the
conditions of the license including but not limited to the pickup and
impounding of chickens.
(Ord. 191, passed 2-24-14)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided, violation of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   Petty misdemeanor. Violations of §§
92.02,
92.07,
92.13 and
92.14 are petty misdemeanors punishable as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Assessable current services
   
93.02   Tree diseases
   
93.03   Open burning
Nuisances
   
93.15   Public nuisance defined
   
93.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
93.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
93.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
93.19   Duties of city officers
   
93.20   Abatement
   
93.21   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
93.35   Short title
   
93.36   Jurisdiction
   
93.37   Definitions; exclusions
   
93.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
93.39   Filing complaint
   
93.40   Notice of violations
   
93.41   Appeals
   
93.42   Abatement by city
   
93.43   Liability
Noise
   
93.50   Definitions
   
93.51   Noise prohibited
   
93.52   Hourly restriction on certain operations
   
93.53   (Reserved)
   
93.54   Air circulation devices
   
93.55   Exception for emergency work
   
93.56   Noise Control Officer; powers and duties
   
93.57   Variances
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned Vehicles, see
Chapter 90
   Alcoholic Beverages, see
Chapter 111
   Dogs and other animals creating nuisances, see §
92.07
   Excavation, see
Ch. 153
   Peddlers and Solicitors, see
Chapter 113
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 93.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish
removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots adjacent to
sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of public health or
safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous building included
in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may be amended from time to time;
installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling, street
flushing, light street oiling or other dust treatment of streets; repair of
sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property; and the
operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Clerk or person designated by the Council
may cause removal from all public sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt and rubbish as
soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any matter has been deposited thereon
or after the snow has ceased to fall. The City Clerk or designated person shall
keep a record showing the cost of the removal adjacent to each separate lot and
parcel.
   (C)   (1)   Weeds as a nuisance. Any weeds, whether noxious, as defined by
law, or not, growing upon any lot or parcel of land outside the traveled
portion of any street or alley in the city to a greater height than 12 inches
or which have gone or are about to go to seed are a nuisance. The owner and the
occupant shall abate or prevent the nuisance on the property and on land
outside the traveled portion of the street or alley abutting on the property.
      (2)   Notice. On or before June 1 of each year and at other times as
ordered by resolution of the City Council, the City Clerk shall publish once in
the official newspaper a notice directing owners and occupants of property
within the city to destroy all weeds declared by division (C)(1) of this
section to be a nuisance and stating that if not so destroyed within ten days
after publication of the notice, the weeds will be destroyed by city employees
at the expense of the owner and that if not paid, the charge for the work will
be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Removal by city. If the owner or occupant of any property in the
city fails to comply with the notice within ten days after its publication,
city employees may cut and remove the weeds. The City Clerk shall keep a record
showing the cost of the work attributable to each separate lot and parcel.
   (D)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under city ordinance, the
administrative officer responsible for doing the work shall keep a record of
the cost of the removal or elimination against each parcel of property affected
and annually deliver the information to the City Clerk.
   (E)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property, the City
Clerk shall keep a record of the total cost of the installation or repair
against the property.
   (F)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Clerk.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee shall make
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Council shall cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk or alley repaired and
made safe within 30 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the city
will do so. The expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and if unpaid it
will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30
days after receipt of the notice, the City Clerk shall report the facts to the
City Council and the City Council shall by resolution order the work done by
contract in accordance with law. The City Clerk shall keep a record of the
total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of property.
   (G)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the Clerk, or other designated official, shall prepare a bill and
mail it to the owner. The amount shall be immediately due and payable at the
office of the Clerk.
   (H)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is so operating, driving or
moving the same with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the
owner and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any damage. Any
person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages
any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall
be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (I)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk
shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of current service and
charges under this section against each separate lot or parcel to which they
are attributable under this section. The City Council may then spread the
charges against property benefitted as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.01
and other pertinent statutes, as they may be amended from time to time, for
certification to the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the
following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the City
Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
§ 93.02 TREE DISEASES.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. The City Council determines that the health of
the elm and oak trees within the city is threatened by fatal diseases known as
Dutch Elm and Oak Wilt diseases, and other trees may be threatened by other
epidemic diseases of shade trees. The City Council further determines that the
loss of elm, oak and other trees growing upon public and private property would
substantially depreciate the value of property within the city and impair the
safety, good order, general welfare and convenience of the public. It is
declared to be the intention of the City Council to control and prevent the
spread of those diseases and this section is enacted for that purpose.
   (B)   Designated enforcement officer. It shall be the duty of the officer
designated by the City Council to coordinate, under the direction and control
of the City Council, all activities of the city relating to the control and
prevention of Dutch Elm disease and Oak Wilt disease and other epidemic
diseases of shade trees. The officer shall recommend to the City Council the
details of a program for the control of the diseases, and perform the duties
incident to a program adopted by the City Council.
   (C)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; or
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (D)   Inspection and investigation. As often as practical, the designated
officer shall inspect all public and private premises within the city which
might harbor any plant pest, as defined in M.S. § 18.46 (13), as it may be
amended from time to time, to determine whether any condition described in
division (C) of this section exists thereon. The designated officer shall
investigate all reported incidents of infestation of Dutch Elm fungus, elm bark
beetles, Oak Wilt fungus or any other epidemic disease of shade trees.
   (E)   Entry on private premises. The designated officer or his or her duly
authorized agents may enter upon private premises at any reasonable time for
the purpose of carrying out any of the duties assigned under this section.
   (F)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance, as defined in division (C) of this section, to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The nuisances may be
abated in the manner prescribed by this section. In abating a nuisance, defined
in division (C) of this section, the designated officer shall cause the
infected tree or wood to be sprayed, removed, burned or otherwise effectively
treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the spread of
epidemic diseases such as Dutch Elm disease and Oak Wilt disease. The
designated officer shall also take other steps as are necessary to prevent root
graft transmission of the diseases. The abatement procedures shall be carried
out in accordance with current technical and expert opinions and plans as may
be designated by the Commissioner of Agriculture.
   (G)   Procedure for removal of infected trees and wood.
      (1)   Action by the designated officer. Whenever the designated officer
finds with reasonable certainty that the infestation, defined in division (C),
exists in any trees or wood in any public or private place in the city, the
designated officer shall in writing notify the owner of the existence of a
nuisance, which notice shall state that the owner has 60 days to abate the
nuisance and avoid city action. A copy of the notice shall be transmitted to
the City Clerk for the information of the City Council. If within the 60-day
period the property owner has not abated the nuisance, the designated officer
shall report all the facts surrounding the unabated nuisance to the City
Council.
      (2)   Action by the City Council.
         (a)   Upon receipt of the designated officer’s report required in
division (G)(1) of this section, the City Council shall by resolution order the
nuisance abated. Before action is taken on the resolution, the City Council
shall publish notice of its intention to meet to consider taking action to
abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to affected property owners and
published once no less than one week prior to the meeting. The notice shall
state the time and place of the meeting, the streets affected, action proposed,
the estimated cost of the abatement and the proposed basis of assessment, if
any, of costs.
         (b)   At the hearing or adjournment thereof, the City Council shall
hear property owners with reference to the scope and desirability of the
proposed project.
         (c)   The City Council shall thereafter adopt a resolution confirming
the original resolution with modifications as it considers desirable and
provide for the doing of the work by day labor or by contract.
      (3)   Record. The designated officer shall keep a record of the costs of
abatement done under this section and shall report monthly to the City Clerk or
other appropriate officer all work done for which assessments are to be made,
stating and certifying the description of the land, lots, parcels involved and
the amount chargeable to each.
      (4)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk
shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate
lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The City
Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof against the property
involved as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101 and other pertinent
statutes, as they may be amended from time to time, for certification to the
County Auditor and collection the following year along with the current taxes.
   (H)   Interference prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to prevent,
delay or interfere with the designated officer or his or her agents while they
are engaged in the performance of duties imposed by this section. However, it
is a defense to prosecution under this division that the interference alleged
consisted of constitutionally protected speech only.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.03 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   BURNING PERMIT. A permit issued by the City Fire Marshal authorizing fires
exempted from the general provisions hereof, and setting conditions therefore.
   CAMP FIRE. A fire set for cooking, warming or ceremonial purposes, which is
not more than three feet in diameter by three feet high, and has had the ground
five feet from the base of the fire cleared of all combustible material.
   OPEN FIRE or OPEN BURNING. A fire burning in matter, whether concentrated or
dispersed, which is not contained within a fully enclosed fire box, structure
or vehicle, and from which the products of combustion are emitted directly to
the open atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or chimney.
   PERSON. As defined in M.S. § 116.06(8), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   RECREATION FIRE. See CAMP FIRE.
      (1)   RECREATION FIRE BURN. When a camp fire is used for recreation
purposes, it must be ignited with an approved starter fluid using, dry clean
wood, producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the property line,
conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times, extinguished completely
before quitting the occasion, and respecting weather conditions, neighbors,
burning bans and air quality so the threat of nuisance health or safety hazards
will not be created. Mobile cooking devices such as manufactured hibachis,
charcoal grills, wood smokers and propane or natural gas devices are not
defined as camp or recreation fires.
      (2)   RECREATION FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three-foot diameter
circle (measured from the inside of the fire ring or border) completely
surrounded by non-combustible and non- smoke or odor producing material, either
of natural rock, cement, brick, tile or block of ferrous metal only and which
area is depressed below ground, on the ground or on a raised block. Included
are permanent outdoor wood burning fire places. RECREATION FIRE SITES shall not
be located closer than 15 feet to any structure. Burners are not a RECREATION
FIRE SITE, as defined herein.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted wood or charcoal fire starter.
Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter fuels and as aids to
ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas burning devices causing
minimal pollution must be used to start an open fire.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, “presto logs,”
charcoal, cordwood or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does not include wood
that is green, with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, coil soaked or treated with
paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreation fires
when cut into three foot lengths.
   (B)   Open burning prohibited. From and after the effective date of this
section, except as herein otherwise provided, open burning shall be prohibited
within the city.
   (C)   Exemptions. Open burning of the types, and subject to the conditions,
as hereinafter stated, shall be exempt from the prohibition of division (B)
above.
      (1)   Recreational fires;
      (2)   Fires under managed supervision for which a burning permit has been
obtained from the City Fire Marshal and, where required by state law, from the
Department of Natural Resources, but limited to the following:
         (a)   Fires purposely set for the instruction and training of public
and industrial fire fighting personnel;
         (b)   Fires set for the elimination of a fire hazard which cannot be
abated by any other practicable means;
         (c)   Fires purposely set for forest and game management purposes; and
         (d)   The burning of trees, brush, grass and other vegetable matter in
the clearing of land, the maintenance of street, road and highway right-of-way,
and in accepted agricultural land management practices.
      (3)   An exception to conduct fires under this section does not excuse a
person from the consequences, damages or injuries which may result therefrom
nor does it exempt any person from regulations promulgated by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency or any other governmental unit exercising jurisdiction
in matters of pollution or fire hazard regulation.
   (D)   Rules adopted by reference. M.S. §§ 88.02 through 88.22, 88.75 and
88.76 and the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code, as they may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this section as if
fully set forth at this point.
(Ord. 84, passed 1-10-94; Am. Ord. 179, passed 5-14-12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
**** NUISANCES ****
§ 93.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED.
   (A)   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty
intentionally does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public
nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
      (1)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
      (2)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
      (3)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or this
subchapter to be a public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically
provided.
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.S. § 609.74
§ 93.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business, as defined by statute, not operating
under local license.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in the occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining such a place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic Beverages, see
Chapter 111
§ 93.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 12 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All unnecessary noises and annoying vibrations;
   (E)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (F)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (G)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (H)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, or so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not
constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (I)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (J)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (K)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (L)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (M)   The accumulation or storage in the open of partially dismantled,
deteriorated, wrecked, discarded, disused, inoperable or derelict property of
any kind, including, but not limited to, vehicles of any kind including
automobiles, trucks, buses, vans, campers, bicycles, watercraft of any kind
including boats, motors, pontoons, canoes, jet skis, machinery and equipment,
tools, household appliances, including stoves, refrigerators, washing and
drying machines, plumbing fixtures, household and office furniture and
fixtures, and all other material or articles in such condition in a manner
conducive of the harboring of rats, mice, snakes, rodents, vermin, insects, or
the rank growth of vegetation or odor among the items so accumulated or stored,
or in a manner conducive to or creating fire, health or safety hazards from
such accumulation or storage;
   (N)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (O)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (P)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (Q)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or
adjacent private property; and
   (R)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
(Am. Ord. 129, passed 8-14-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.19 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The City Engineer, Street Superintendent, Police Department or other
designated official shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter relating to
nuisances affecting public safety. The Police Department shall enforce
provisions relating to other nuisances and shall assist the other designated
officers in the enforcement of provisions relating to nuisances affecting
public safety. The officers shall have the power to inspect private premises
and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance
of public nuisances.
§ 93.20 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation, notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council, notice of City Council
order, and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
the officer charged with enforcement on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any city council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever the officer charged with enforcement determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on premises in the city,
the officer shall notify in writing the owner of record or occupant of the
premises of the fact and order that the nuisance be terminated or abated. The
notice of violation shall specify the steps to be taken to abate the nuisance
and the time within which the nuisance is to be abated. If the notice of
violation is not complied with within the time specified, the enforcing officer
shall report that fact forthwith to the City Council. Thereafter, the City
Council may, after notice to the owner or occupant and an opportunity to be
heard, determine that the condition identified in the notice of violation is a
nuisance and further order that if the nuisance is not abated within the time
prescribed by the City Council, the city may seek injunctive relief by serving
a copy of the City Council order and notice of motion for summary enforcement.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement.
      (1)   In cases of emergency, where delay in abatement required to
complete the notice and procedure requirements set forth in divisions (A) and
(B) of this section will permit a continuing nuisance to unreasonably endanger
public health safety or welfare, the City Council may order summary enforcement
and abate the nuisance. To proceed with summary enforcement, the officer
charged with enforcement shall determine that a public nuisance exists or is
being maintained on premises in the city and that delay in abatement of the
nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare.
      (2)   The enforcement officer shall notify in writing the occupant or
owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the city’s intention
to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of the City Council meeting
to consider the question of summary enforcement.
      (3)   The City Council shall determine whether or not the condition
identified in the notice to the owner or occupant is a nuisance, whether public
health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement
required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this section,
and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated.
      (4)   If the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing herein shall prevent the city, without
notice or process, from immediately abating any condition which poses an
imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.21 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official designated
by the City Council shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner.
Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the
City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the
growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled portion of streets,
or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall, on or before
September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the total unpaid
charges along with all other such charges as well as other charges for current
services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges against the property
under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each
case.
Penalty, see § 10.99
**** WEEDS ****
§ 93.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Subchapter.”
§ 93.36 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The jurisdiction of this subchapter shall be the corporate limits of
the city, as presently defined, or as may be modified from time to time by
annexation or city ordinance.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 93.37 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION.
         (1)   Includes but is not limited to the following:
            (a)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
            (b)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not
pruned, sprayed, cultivated or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
            (c)   Bushes of the species of tall, common or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
            (d)   Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers
or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches; and
            (e)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated
growth of annuals and perennial plants.
         (2)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
§ 93.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the city shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in excess of
six inches in average height, and in no event, exceeds 15 inches maximum height
on at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   If the city makes the complaint, an employee, officer or Council
member of the city shall file the complaint in all respects as set out above.
§ 93.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in
violation of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall
make an inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding
the condition. The City Council, upon concluding that there is a probable
belief that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written
notification in the form of a destruction order to the property owner or the
person occupying the property as that information is contained within the
records of the City Clerk or any other city agency.
      (2)   The notice shall be served in writing by certified mail. The notice
shall provide that within seven regular business days after the receipt of the
notice that the designated violation shall be removed by the property owner or
person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Clerk.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Clerk or others is deemed filed on
the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 93.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council Members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 93.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven regular business days and has not filed a notice
within 48 hours to the City Clerk of an intent to appeal, the City Council may
employ the services of city employees or outside contractors and remove the
weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
§ 93.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The owner is liable for costs of removal, cutting or destruction, as
defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs
associated with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs,
attorney’s fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city.
      (2)   If the city uses municipal employees, it shall set and assign an
appropriate per hour rate for employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals
which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the city.
**** NOISE ****
§ 93.50 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases defined in this section have, when used in this
subchapter, the meanings given below. Any word or phrases used in this
subchapter, and defined in regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency Noise Pollution Control Section, NPC-1 and NPC-4, has the meaning given
in those regulations.
   AIR CIRCULATION DEVICE. A mechanism designed and used for the controlled
flow of air used in ventilation, cooling, or conditioning, including, but not
limited to, central and window air conditioning units.
   L10. The sound level, expressed in decibels (dBA) which exceeded 10% of the
time for a one-hour period, as measured by a sound level meter having
characteristics as specified in the latest standards, S1.4, of the American
National Standards Institute and using test procedures approved by the Noise
Control Officer.
   L50. The sound level similarly expressed and measured which exceeded 50% of
the time for a one- hour period.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, trustee, association,
or any body of persons whether incorporated or not. With respect to acts
prohibited or required herein, PERSON shall include employees and licensees.
(Ord. 116, passed 4-25-05)
§ 93.51 NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made any
distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, safety, peace, or welfare of
any persons or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their
property’s value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific
restrictions of the following divisions.
   (B)   Motor vehicles. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in the city in
violation of the motor vehicle noise limits of the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency.
   (C)   Horns, audible signaling devices, and the like. No person shall sound
any signaling device on any vehicle except as a warning of danger (M.S. §
169.68).
   (D)   Exhaust. No person shall discharge the exhaust, or permit the
discharge of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion
engine, motor boat, motor vehicle, or snowmobile except through a muffler or
other device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises therefrom and
complies with all applicable state laws and regulations.
   (E)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so out of
repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
   (F)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud and
excessive noise in loading, unloading, or unpacking any vehicle.
   (G)   Radios, audio/media devices, paging system, and the like. No person
shall use, operate, or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, audio/media device, paging system, machine, or other device
for the production or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly audible
manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any such set, instrument, audio/media device, machine, or other
device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be
plainly audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it
is located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet
if the source is located outside a structure, mobile home, or building shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   (H)   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings. No person shall
participate in any party or other gathering of people giving rise to noise,
disturbing the peace, quiet, or repose of another person. When a police officer
determines that a gathering is creating such a noise disturbance, the officer
may order all persons present, other than the owner or tenant of the premises
to leave the premises or shall make every reasonable effort to see that the
disturbance is stopped.
   (I)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers for advertising, and the like. No person
shall operate or permit the use or operation of any loudspeaker, sound
amplifier, or other device for the production or reproduction of sound on a
street or other public place for the purpose of commercial advertising or
attracting the attention of the public to any commercial establishment or
vehicle.
   (J)   Animals. No person shall keep any animal that disturbs the comfort or
repose of persons in the vicinity by its frequent or continued noise.
   (K)   Schools, churches, and the like. No person shall create any excessive
noise on a street, alley, or public grounds adjacent to any school, institution
of learning, church, nursing home, homes for the elderly, or hospital when the
noise unreasonably interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs
or unduly annoys its occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate
the presence of such institution.
(Ord. 116, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord 197, passed 1-12-15) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.52 HOURLY RESTRICTION ON CERTAIN OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles. No person shall, between the hours of 9:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m., drive or operate any minibike, or other recreational vehicle not
licensed for travel on public highways. Snowmobiles may use a direct route to
and from the city and are exempt from this division.
   (B)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall, between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., operate a power lawn mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw,
mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or other similar domestic power
maintenance equipment. Snow removal equipment and generators used during a
power outage are exempt from this section.
   (C)   Refuse hauling. No person shall, between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m., collect or remove garbage or refuse in any residential district.
   (D)   Construction activities. No person shall, between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., engage in or permit construction activities involving the
use of any kind of electric, diesel, or gas-powered machine or other power
equipment.
(Ord. 116, passed 4-25-05; Am. Ord 197, passed 1-12-15) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.53 (RESERVED).
§ 93.54 AIR CIRCULATION DEVICES.
   No person shall permanently install or place any air circulation device,
except a window air conditioning unit, in any outdoor location. The noise
produced by any window unit and by existing air circulation device shall be
attenuated by means deemed appropriate by the Noise Control Officer, including,
but not limited to, relocation of such device.
(Ord. 116, passed 4-25-05) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.55 EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY WORK.
   Noise created exclusively in the performance of emergency work to preserve
the public health, safety, or welfare, or in the performance of emergency work
necessary to restore a public service or eliminate a public hazard shall be
exempt from the provisions of this subchapter for a period not to exceed 24
hours after the work is commenced. Persons responsible for such work shall
inform the Noise Control Officer of the need to initiate such work or, if the
work is commenced during non-business day thereafter. Any person responsible
for such emergency work shall take all responsible actions to minimize the
amount of noise.
(Ord. 116, passed 4-25-05)
§ 93.56 NOISE CONTROL OFFICER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Administering officer. The noise control program established by this
subchapter shall be administered by the Noise Control Officer, who shall be
appointed by the Mayer City Council.
   (B)   Testing procedures. The Noise Control Officer shall adopt guidelines
establishing the test procedures and instrumentation to be used in enforcing
the provisions of this subchapter. A copy of such guidelines shall be kept on
file in the office of the Noise Control Officer and shall be available for the
public reference during office hours.
   (C)   Studies, and the like. The Noise Control Officer shall conduct such
research, monitoring, and other studies related to sound as are necessary or
useful in enforcing this subchapter and reducing noise in the city. He or she
shall make such investigations and inspections in accordance with law as
required in applying ordinance requirements.
   (D)   Noise impact statements. The Noise Control Officer may require any
person applying to the city for a change in zoning classification or a permit
or license for any structure, operation, process, installation, or alteration,
or project that may be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise
impact statement on a form prescribed by the Officer. He or she shall evaluate
each such statement and make appropriate recommendations to the Council or
other agency or officer authorized to take the action or approve the license or
permit applied for.
   (E)   Other powers and duties. The Noise Control Officer shall exercise such
other powers and perform such other duties as are reasonable and necessary to
enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 116, passed 4-25-05)
§ 93.57 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Authority. The Noise Control Officer shall have authority, consistent
with this section, to grant variances from the requirements of any section of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Application. Any person seeking a variance shall file an application
with the Noise Control Officer on a form prescribed by the Officer. The
application shall state the dates during which the variance is proposed, the
location of the noise source and time of operation, the nature of the noise
source, reasons why the variance is sought, steps taken to minimize the noise
level, and such other information as is required by the Noise Control Officer.
If the application is for a variance for more than three days, the Noise
Control Officer shall give mailed notice of the requested variance to all
property owners within 500 feet of the noise source. Any person claiming to be
adversely affected by the variance applied for may, within 20 days of the
mailing of the notice, file a statement with the Noise Control Officer in
support of his or her claim.
   (C)   Action on application. If the Noise Control Officer finds that
sufficient controversy exists regarding the proposed variance, he or she may
hold a public hearing on the proposal at which all persons affected shall be
given an opportunity to be heard. He or she shall hold such a hearing upon
request of the applicant or any person claiming to be adversely affected by the
variance applied for. Within 30 days of receipt of the application, the Officer
shall approve or deny the application. It may be approved only if the Officer
finds that full compliance with the requirements of this subchapter would
constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on other persons, or on
the community. In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the
Officer shall balance the hardship to the applicant against the adverse impact
on the health, safety, and welfare of the persons affected, the adverse impact
on property affected, and any other adverse effects of granting variance. The
variance may be granted subject to conditions, including a time limit, which
shall be clearly stated.
   (D)   Appeals. Either the applicant or any party aggrieved may, within 20
days of the decision on the variance application, appeal to the City Council
for a review of the decision. The appeal shall be filed in writing with the
City Administrator. The appeal shall be heard as soon as practicable and within
20 days of the filing of the appeal, and the applicant and any person who filed
a statement on the application for a variance with the Noise Control Officer
shall be given at least ten days’ mailed notice of the time when and place
where the appeal will be considered by the Council. The Council may affirm,
modify, or overrule the action of the Noise Control Officer on the basis of the
criteria set out in division (C) above.
(Ord. 116, passed 4-25-05)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notice of certain violations. When the Noise Control Officer
determines that a noise exceeds the maximum sound level permitted under §§
93.50 through
93.57, he or she shall give a written notice of the violation to the owner or
occupant of the premises where the noise originates and order such person to
correct or remove each specified violation with such a reasonable time as is
prescribed in the notice. The failure to remove or correct any such violation
within the time so prescribed constitutes a violation of §§
93.50 through
93.57.
   (B)   Civil remedies. Sections
93.50 through
93.57 may be enforced by injunction, action for abatement, or other appropriate
civil remedy.
   (C)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Any violation of §§
93.50 through
93.57 involving the operation of a motor vehicle is a petty misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, the violator shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200,
plus the costs of prosecution.
      (2)   Every person who violates any other provision of §§
93.50 through
93.57 is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to a
fine of not more than $700 or imprisonment for a term of not to exceed 90 days,
or both, plus, in either case, the costs of prosecution.
      (3)   Each act of violation and each day a violation occurs or continues
constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 116, passed 4-25-05)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Clearing and cleaning sidewalks
Right-Of-Way Construction Regulations
   
94.20   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
94.21   Definitions and adoption of rules by reference
   
94.22   Permit requirement
   
94.23   Permit applications
   
94.24   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
94.25   Permit fees
   
94.26   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
94.27   Supplementary applications
   
94.28   Denial of permit
   
94.29   Installation requirements
   
94.30   Inspection
   
94.31   Work done without a permit
   
94.32   Supplementary notification
   
94.33   Revocation of permits
   
94.34   Mapping data; information required
   
94.35   Location of facilities
   
94.36   Damage to other facilities
   
94.37   Right-of-way vacation
   
94.38   Indemnification and liability
   
94.39   Abandoned facilities; removal of abandoned facilities
   
94.40   Appeal
   
94.41   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
Cross-reference:
   Assessable current services, see §
93.01
   Street Department, see §
33.60
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 94.01 CLEARING AND CLEANING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Clearing of sidewalks. The owner and the occupant or other person in
control of any property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to
keep the walks safe for pedestrians and clear of all snow, ice, dirt and
rubbish. No person shall allow snow, ice, dirt or rubbish to remain on the
sidewalk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon or after the snow has
ceased to fall.
('82 Code, § 4.211)
   (B)   Cleaning by city. Whenever any sidewalk has not been cleared as
required by this section, the Street Commissioner may give written notice to
the owner, occupant or other person in control of the property demanding that
the sidewalk be cleaned within 24 hours or a lesser time as the Commissioner
may determine is necessary for protection of the public health and safety. No
notice shall be required respecting the clearing of snow from a sidewalk. If
the sidewalk is not cleared within the time required, the Street Commissioner
may have the sidewalk cleared and the owner of the property shall be
responsible for all costs and expenses of clearing the sidewalk. If the owner
fails to make payment within ten days of billing, the cost shall be taxed
against the property provided by law.
('82 Code, § 4.212)
   (C)   Liability to city. The owner and the occupant or other person in
control of any property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall indemnify the city
for any liability, including the cost of defending against any claim, incurred
by the city by reason of improper maintenance of the sidewalk or by reason of
failure to keep the sidewalk clear of snow, ice, dirt or rubbish.
('82 Code, § 4.213) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS ****
§ 94.20 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this chapter to manage rights-of-ways within its jurisdiction.
§ 94.21 DEFINITIONS AND ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   Minn. Rules Ch. 7819, as it may be amended from time to time is hereby
adopted by reference and are incorporated into this code as if set out in full.
The definitions included in Minn. Rules part 7819.0100 Subps. 1 through 23, as
it may be amended from time to time are the definitions of the terms used in
the following provisions of this subchapter.
§ 94.22 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate permit from the city.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of- way described in the permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit.  An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless the person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of- way permit before the
expiration of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is
granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000 Subp. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding division (B) of this
section, the city shall establish and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable
delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration. The
delay penalty shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the Clerk.
   (E)   Exceptions to requirement for obstructions or excavation permits.
      (1)   Decorative landscaping items not exceeding two and one-half feet in
height including, but not limited to, such items as grass, groundcover,
flowers, or shrubs may be allowed in the right-of-way without a permit.
However, such objects or plantings may not encroach into actual roadway,
trailway or sidewalk area. No permanently anchored structures of any kind shall
be allowed within any part of the right-of-way. The City of Mayer has the right
to remove any item or object that is within the right-of- way at any time for
any reason.
      (2)   In appropriate circumstances a property owner may request a
variance from the above stated decorative landscaping limitations. The request
shall be in writing and directed to the City Administrator. The request shall
specifically set forth in detail the proposed variations from the decorative
landscaping limitations. The City Administrator may approve or deny the
proposed variance or approve the variance with and subject to restrictions,
including time limits.
(Am. Ord. 141, passed 11-26-07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.23 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee’s name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self insurance acceptable to the Clerk.
         (b)    Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and placement and use of facilities
and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers, agents,
employees and permittees, including but not limited to protection against
liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground facilities
and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the Clerk be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e)    Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the Clerk in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under M.S. § 300.06, as it may be amended from time to time as
recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State.
      (6)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate
from the Commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees as established by resolution of the City Council,
estimated restoration costs and other management costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of the applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-
way or any emergency actions taken by the city; or
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges as established by resolution of the
City Council, if applicable.
§ 94.24 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The Clerk may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
§ 94.25 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be in an amount established by resolution of the City
Council.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee as established by resolution of the City Council, in an amount sufficient
to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction Permit Fee.  The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee as established by resolution of the City Council, and shall be in an
amount sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay those fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees as established by resolution of the City
Council, that were paid for a permit that the Clerk has revoked for a breach as
stated in §
94.40 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (F)   All permit fees shall be established consistent with the provisions of
Minn. Rules part 7819.100, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
94.34.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. The permittee shall patch its own work. The
city may choose either to have the city restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If following
the restoration, the pavement settles due to the permittee's improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing,
all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
part 7819.3000, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rule part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Clerk shall have the authority to prescribe the manner and extent of
the restoration, and may do so in written procedures of general application or
on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by the permittee or its agents. The
permittee upon notification from the Clerk, shall correct all restoration work
to the extent necessary, using the method required by the Clerk. The work shall
be completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the
Clerk, not including days during which work cannot be done because of
circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonal or unreasonable under §
94.34.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the Clerk, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the Clerk, the
Clerk at his or her option may do the work. In that event the permittee shall
pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-
way. If the permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its
rights under the construction performance bond.
   (F)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee as
established by resolution of the City Council. However, the right- of-way user
shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation fee shall not include
the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
§ 94.27 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
§ 94.28 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
§ 94.29 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of- way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to time and other applicable
local requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with M.S. §§ 237.162
and 237.163 as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 94.30 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rule part 7819.1300, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
city personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Clerk.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Clerk may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Clerk may issue an order to the permittee for any work which
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Clerk that the
violation has been corrected. If proof has not been presented within the
required time, the Clerk may revoke the permit pursuant to §
94.40.
§ 94.31 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately
notify the city of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for the actions it
took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this code,
deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
§ 94.32 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the Clerk
of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
§ 94.33 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
the permittee shall include, but shall not be limited, to the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittees control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
94.37.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy that violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach.  Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. The permittee's failure to
so contact the city, or the permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan,
or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
§ 94.34 MAPPING DATA; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Each permittee shall provide mapping information required by the city in
accordance with Minn. Rules parts 7819.4000 and 7819.4100, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 94.35 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with
applicable laws, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100, 7819.5000 and 7819.5100,
as they may be amended from time to time, to the extent the rules do not limit
authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current tech- nology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space.  To protect the health, safety, and welfare or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the Clerk shall
have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
facilities within the right-of-way. In making those decisions, the Clerk shall
strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users
of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the
public interest, the public's needs for the particular utility service, the
condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential
utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and
future city plans for public improvements and development projects which have
been determined to be in the public interest.
§ 94.36 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect it, the Clerk shall notify the
local representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed as required.
The costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be
paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which
it or its facilities damages. Each facility owner shall be responsible for the
cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused
during the city's response to an emergency occasioned by that owner’s
facilities.
§ 94.37 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way which contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3200, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 94.38 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rule 7819.1250, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 94.39 ABANDONED FACILITIES; REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of- way if required in conjunction with other right-of-way
repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement is waived by the
Clerk.
§ 94.40 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration; has been denied a
permit; has had permit revoked; or believes that the fees imposed are invalid,
may have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition reviewed, upon written
request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a timely written
request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision by the City Council
affirming the denial, revocation, or fee as imposition will be writing and
supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
§ 94.41 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittees or registrants rights are subject to the regulatory and police
powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the public.
CHAPTER 95: PUBLIC PARKS
Section
   
95.01   Application
   
95.02   Definition
   
95.03   Park rules and prohibited acts
   
95.04   Additional rules and regulations
   
95.05   Park use for hot air balloons
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 APPLICATION.
   This chapter applies to all persons who enter, use and occupy City of Mayer
owned park property. The use of such parks shall be subject to and all such
persons shall conform to and abide by the rules and regulations set forth in
this chapter.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-11-08)
§ 95.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PARK. Any park, park area, historic site, playground, garden or other
area owned or used by the city for recreational and/or public gatherings in
connection therewith.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-11-08)
§ 95.03 PARK RULES AND PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Glass.
      (1)   The use or possession of glass bottles, glass containers or any
other form of glass beverage containers are prohibited.
      (2)   No person shall distribute or possess with intent to distribute a
beverage bottle in a public park. However, the following may be permitted: any
person with an infant in the person’s care or custody carrying a bottle
containing liquid prepared for consumption by the infant.
   (B)   Recreational motor vehicles. No person shall operate a motor vehicle,
which includes, but is not limited to, snowmobiles, trail bikes, or other all
terrain vehicles, or motor vehicles licensed for off-road recreational purposes
in a public park. This provision does not apply to recreational motor vehicles
operated by enforcement or emergency personnel acting in the performance of
their duties or snowmobiles, trail bikes or other all terrain vehicles that are
operating on an approved trail.
   (C)   Removing, defacing or destroying property. No person shall remove,
deface, destroy, diminish, or impair the value of public property located on or
within any public park or public grounds, including buildings, structures,
trees, shrubs, grass, vegetation, signs, tables, benches, fireplaces, trash
receptacles, notices, or placards, boundary markers or fences, or any other
public property either real or personal.
   (D)   Refuse and trash. No person shall dump, deposit or leave any bottles,
broken glass, ashes, paper boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse,
trash or snow in a park except in proper receptacles provided for that purpose.
No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any
park, nor left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the
proper receptacles where these are provided; where receptacles are not so
provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the
person responsible for its presence, and properly disposed of elsewhere.
   (E)   Disturbances. No person or groups of persons shall conduct themselves
in any way that shall disturb or adversely affect any other person’s peaceful
use or enjoyment of the public park.
   (F)   Firearms and explosives. No person shall discharge firearms, air
rifles, B.B. guns, sling shots, explosives or fireworks in or about any public
park in the City of Mayer. Exceptions may be allowed for special events by
obtaining prior permission from the City Council.
   (G)   Camping. No overnight camping is permitted in any park except in
special designated areas.
   (H)   Concessions. No person shall engage in or solicit business of any
nature whatsoever within a public park or recreation area without proper city
permits or licenses.
   (I)   Alcoholic beverages. No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage in
a public park, on a public street or in or on other public property unless the
consumption and display of the beverage being consumed is lawfully permitted on
the public property, pursuant to applicable provisions.
   (J)   Pets. All pets must be kept on a leash and confined to the designated
pet exercise areas. The owner or person responsible for any animal which leaves
droppings on the premises shall be responsible to remove the droppings
immediately.
   (K)   Maintenance of vehicles. No person shall wash or perform maintenance
or repairs on any vehicle in a public park or public grounds. This provision
does not apply to City of Mayer employees washing or performing maintenance or
repairs on city owned vehicles or equipment.
   (L)   Posting signs and placards. No person shall paste, glue, tack, erect,
construct or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement or inscription, on
any public park or public grounds, except by written permission of the City
Council.
   (M)   Traffic and parking. Vehicles shall be driven or parked only in
designated areas in any park or public grounds and shall be driven therein at a
maximum speed of five miles per hour. Parking in designated areas shall be
allowed only by vehicles whose owners and/or occupants are currently using the
public park or grounds. City vehicles, police, and fire are authorized to drive
vehicles in parks as part of their normal duties.
   (N)   Overnight parking or occupancy. Overnight parking or occupancy within
any public park or public grounds is prohibited.
   (O)   Fires. Fires are permitted only in fireplaces or fire rings provided
in designated areas and shall be fully extinguished when unattended.
   (P)   Golf. Golfing is prohibited in all public parks and public grounds.
   (Q)   Smoking. Smoking is prohibited in all city parks.
      (1)   Exception. Smoking is permissible in parking lots and within
vehicles in the parking lots so long as the vapor, smoke, or any other fume or
smell does not infringe upon the enjoyment of the park space by others.
      (2)   Definitions.
         (a)   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted or
heated cigar, cigarette, pipe or any other lighted or heated product
containing, made or derived from nicotine, tobacco, cannabis, hemp, or other
plant, whether natural or synthetic, that is intended for inhalation. SMOKING
also includes use of an electronic delivery device.
         (b)   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering
nicotine, lobelia or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic,
intended for human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from
the product. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to,
devices manufactured, marketed or sold as e-cigarettes, e- cigars, e-pipes,
vape pens, mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor.
   (R)   Cannabis and hemp consumption. Cannabis and hemp, as defined in §
130.04, consumption in all other forms, in conjunction with and as opposed to
division (Q), is prohibited in all city parks with the same exceptions as
division (Q).
(Ord. 147, passed 8-11-08; Am. Ord. 241, passed 9-25-23) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Upon direction of the City Council, additional rules and regulations may be
posted at individual parks as deemed appropriate. Any violation of such posted
rules shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-11-08)
§ 95.05 PARK USE FOR HOT AIR BALLOONS.
   (A)   Hot air balloons may be launched from a city park only when granted a
permit by the city.
   (B)   Permit application. An application for a permit to launch a hot air
balloon from city parks must be completed on a form provided by the city.
   (C)   Permit fee. An applicant must pay a non-refundable permit fee in the
amount established by the City Council pursuant to the city’s fee ordinance.
The permit shall be valid until such time as it is revoked or otherwise
canceled.
   (D)   Permit review. The City Administrator (or designee) will review the
permit for sufficiency. Certain permit applications may be distributed to other
city departments, including the Carver County Sheriff’s Office, that may
require conditions for the proposed activity.
   (E)   Permit denial or revocation. The City Administrator may deny an
application for a permit or revoke an approved permit if it is determined that:
      (1)   The information contained in the application or supplemental
information requested from the applicant is false or nonexistent in any
material detail.
      (2)   The applicant fails to supplement the application after having been
notified by the city of additional information or documents needed.
      (3)   The applicant fails to agree to abide or comply with all of the
conditions and terms of the permit, including payment of all costs and
expenses.
      (4)   The launch will unreasonably interfere with or detract from the
enjoyment of the park by other park visitors or disturb residentially zoned
properties and park visitors in proximity to the park.
      (5)   The launch will unreasonably interfere with or detract from the
promotion of public health, welfare, safety, comfort, and recreation.
      (6)   The launch will entail an unusual, extraordinary burden or expense
for the city.
      (7)   The facilities desired have been reserved for some other use on the
day and hour requested.
      (8)   The launch will unnecessarily disrupt or interfere with the
movement of traffic, would interfere with access to fire hydrants or other
critical infrastructure, or would interfere with access to businesses or
residences in the immediate vicinity of the activity.
      (9)   The launch would likely endanger the public safety or health.
      (10)   The launch would likely create or constitute a public nuisance.
      (11)   The launch would be likely to cause significant damage to public
property or facilities.
      (12)   The launch would engage in or encourage participants to engage in
disorderly conduct activity, disturbances, or illegal acts.
      (13)   The applicant, responsible party, or the person on whose behalf
the application is submitted has on prior occasions made material
misrepresentations regarding the nature of an activity in the city or has
violated the terms of a prior permit.
      (14)   Upon finding a violation of any rule or ordinance, condition
imposed on the permit, or upon good cause.
   (F)   Permit approval and use. Upon successful review for sufficiency, the
City Administrator (or designee) is authorized to approve the permit. An
approved permit shall allow the holder general personal recreational use to
launch their hot air balloon(s) from the approved location in accordance with
this section. The permit holder shall notify the city 48 hours in advance of
the date and time of the desired launch.
   (G)   Conditions of permit. A permit holder is bound by all park rules and
regulations and all applicable ordinances as if they were fully inserted in the
permit. The city may impose any reasonable conditions on a permit that in its
discretion will protect the public health, safety, welfare, comfort, and
recreation in the park. The permit holder is liable for any loss, damage or
injury sustained by any park visitor when due to the negligence of the permit
holder. Within 24 hours after the expiration of the permit, a permit holder
must remove from the park all trash, boxes, papers, cans, garbage and other
refuse, and all installations and equipment, and must restore the premises to
its condition prior to the permit holder's use of the park.
   (H)   Non-transferable. A permit under this section may not be transferred
to any other person.
   (I)   Designated areas specified in permit. The use for which the permit is
granted must only be conducted within the area designated on the permit.
   (J)   Insurance requirements. Applicants and permit holders must possess
insurance covering hot air balloons, including rides, in amount of at least
$1,000,000 in liability. The city shall be named as an additional insured. A
certificate of insurance must be provided to the city demonstrating coverage.
   (K)   Indemnification requirements. Applicants and permit holders shall be
required to defend and indemnify the city for any claims arising from the hot
air balloon activities.
(Ord. 243, passed 2-12-24; Am. Ord. 250, passed 10-13-25)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-11-08)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
      
111.   INTOXICATING AND 3.2 PERCENT MALT LIQUOR
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND GAMBLING
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
115.   CANNABIS BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Applicability
   
110.02   Application procedure
   
110.03   Bond and insurance required
   
110.04   Fees
   
110.05   Issuance
   
110.06   Conditions and terms
   
110.07   Termination, suspension or revocation
Cross-reference:
   Firearms; dangerous weapons, see §
130.01
§ 110.01 APPLICABILITY.
   All licenses and permits required by this title shall be governed by the
provisions hereinafter set forth unless otherwise provided by law or in this
code. As used in §§
110.02 through
110.06, “license” shall include both a license and a permit, and “licensee”
shall include both a licensee and a permittee.
('82 Code, § 7.111)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Every application shall be made to the City Clerk, on a form provided by the
Clerk. It shall be accompanied by payment for the prescribed fee. The fee shall
be refunded if the license is not approved. The applicant shall provide any
information as may be required on the application or form. No person shall make
a false statement in or concerning any application.
('82 Code, § 7.112) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
§ 110.03 BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The bond shall be a corporate surety bond and shall be filed with the
Clerk before the license is issued. Except where otherwise provided, a bond
shall be in the amount of at least $3,000, on the condition that the license
will comply with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations pertaining to
the licensed activity and that the licensee will indemnify the city and save it
harmless from all loss or damage by reason of any act or omission of the
licensee or his or her agents or employees.
('82 Code, § 7.113) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
   (B)   When a licensee is required to have in force a policy of insurance,
the coverage shall be for the term of the license and the policy shall provide
that it is noncancellable without a notice of ten days to the city.
Satisfactory evidence of coverage by insurance shall be filed with the Clerk
before the license is issued.
('82 Code, § 7.114) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
§ 110.04 FEES.
   (A)   Unless a fee is specified, the Council shall, by resolution, establish
the fee to be charged for any license. The fee shall be paid prior to issuance
of the license.
('82 Code, § 7.115)
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified by law or by this code, if a portion of the
license year has elapsed when an annual license is granted, the fee shall be
one-twelfth of the annual fee for each month or fraction of a month remaining
in the license year. No license fee shall be prorated during the time which a
licensee was required to have a license, but failed to apply for one.
('82 Code, § 7.116)
§ 110.05 ISSUANCE.
   If the license does not require Council approval, the Clerk shall issue the
license upon being satisfied that all requirements of law and of this code have
been met. If the Clerk is not so satisfied, or if Council approval is required,
the Clerk shall present the application to the Council for action. The Clerk
shall thereupon issue the license if approval is granted.
('82 Code, § 7.117) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
§ 110.06 CONDITIONS AND TERMS.
   (A)   Copies. Whenever a licensee is required to post copies of a license at
a place other than where the original license is posted, the Clerk shall issue
a sufficient number of copies for such purposes, marking each copy with the
word “COPY” on its face.
('82 Code, § 7.118)
   (B)   Duplicates. The Clerk shall issue a duplicate license upon the
licensee submitting satisfactory proof that the license has been lost, stolen
or destroyed. The Clerk shall mark any duplicate with the word “DUPLICATE” on
its face. The Clerk shall charge a fee in an amount established resolution of
the City Council for a duplicate.
('82 Code, § 7.119)
   (C)   Refunds. After issuance, license fees shall not be refunded in whole
or in part unless otherwise required by law or by this code.
('82 Code, § 7.120)
   (D)   Duration. A license shall be valid for one year or the part of the
year for which it is issued and shall expire on the last day of February
annually.
('82 Code, § 7.121)
   (E)   Renewals. Applications for renewal of licenses may be made on or after
January 1 annually for the next succeeding license year.
('82 Code, § 7.122)
   (F)   Transfers. No license may be transferred to any other person. When a
license relates to specific premises, the license shall not be transferred to
another location without approval of the issuing authority. When a license
relates to specific vehicles or devices, it may be transferred to a replacement
vehicle or device upon filing with the Clerk a statement of the reasons for the
transfer, a description of the vehicle or device to which the license is
transferred and the disposition of the vehicle or device from which the license
is to be transferred.
('82 Code, § 7.123)
   (G)   Inspection.
      (1)   A licensee shall permit, at any reasonable hour, any law
enforcement officer, health officer or any other duly designated officer or
employee of the city engaged in the performance of official duties with respect
to the licensed activity to inspect the licensed premises and to examine the
books and records of the activity to which the license relates.
      (2)   A valid search warrant shall be obtained before conducting the
inspection or examination if the licensee objects to the inspection or
examination. Refusal to permit the inspection or examination is grounds for
suspension or revocation of the license.
('82 Code, § 7.124)
   (H)   Compliance with legal requirements. Every licensee shall comply with
all laws, regulations and provisions of this chapter applicable to the licensed
activity.
('82 Code, § 7.125)
   (I)   Display of license.
      (1)   The licensee shall display the license in a conspicuous place on
the premises, in the vehicle or on or near the device to which the license
relates. If a license relates to multiple devices at a single premises, the
license shall be displayed in a conspicuous place on the premises. If the
license authorizes the licensee to engage in a particular line of employment,
the license shall be carried on the licensee’s person when the licensee is
carrying on the licensed activity, unless the licensee carries on the activity
from a single place of business in the city, in which case it may be displayed
at a place of business. In all other cases, the license shall be displayed at
the licensee's place of business within the city or other place in the city as
the Clerk may designate upon the license.
      (2)   In addition, if a license relates to multiple premises, the
licensee shall obtain from the Clerk and display a copy of the license in a
conspicuous place on each premises to which the license relates.
('82 Code, § 7.126) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
§ 110.07 TERMINATION, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Automatic termination. Each license shall automatically terminate upon
termination of any required insurance coverage or bond.
('82 Code, § 7.127)
   (B)   Suspension or revocation. The Council may suspend, for a period not
exceeding 60 days, or revoke any license for violation of any provision, law or
regulation applicable to the licensed activity. Except when suspension or
revocation may be made without hearing, the licensee shall be granted a
hearing. The notice of hearing shall state the time and place of the hearing,
the action proposed and the reasons for the proposed action. When a licensee
holds more than one license, violation of any provision, law or regulation
respecting any license shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of all
other licenses of the same kind issued to the licensee or premises.
('82 Code, § 7.128)
CHAPTER 111: INTOXICATING AND 3.2 PERCENT MALT LIQUOR
Section
   
111.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
111.05   Consumption in public places
   
111.06   Outdoor areas, patios and decks
   
111.07   Raffles, silent auctions and fundraising events for charitable
purposes of wine, beer or intoxicating liquors
   
111.08   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
111.09   Term and expiration of licenses
   
111.10   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
111.11   License fees; pro rata
   
111.12   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
111.13   Application for license
   
111.14   Financial responsibility; liability insurance required
   
111.15   Description of premises
   
111.16   Applications for renewal
   
111.17   Transfer of license
   
111.18   Investigation
   
111.19   Hearing and issuance
   
111.20   Restrictions on issuance
   
111.21   Conditions of license
   
111.22   Hours and days of sale
   
111.23   Minors on premises
   
111.24   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
111.25   Suspension and revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor are hereby adopted by
reference and are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the
intention of the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are
hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at
the time this chapter is adopted.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
§ 111.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, for the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words an
“intoxicating” or a “3.2 percent malt” includes both intoxicating liquor and
3.2 percent mall liquor.
   PREMISES OR LICENSED PREMISES. The compact and contiguous space specified in
the license.
   OUTDOOR AREA. Any area that is not bounded by the walls, doorways, and
closeable windows covering 100% of the combined surface area of the vertical
planes constituting the perimeter of the area. A wall does not include any
retractable divider, garage door, or other physical barrier, whether temporary
or permanent.
   RESTAURANT. Establishment, other than a hotel, under the control of a single
proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the premises and
served at tables to the general public and having a minimum seating capacity of
30 guests. A RESTAURANT must have a license from the Minnesota Commissioner of
Health or the Minnesota Commissioner of Agriculture.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11; Am. Ord. 177, passed 4-23-12)
§ 111.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2 percent malt liquor license or any other license issued under this chapter
or the imposition of a civil penalty under the provisions of §
111.99(B).
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor
in a public park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in
any public place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under
this chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or
where the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
   (B)   No on-sale or off-sale license shall be effective or valid beyond the
licensed premises. No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, served or consumed
outside of the licensed premises as described in the application for a license
and as approved by the city.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 OUTDOOR AREAS, PATIOS AND DECKS.
   Consumption of alcohol in outdoor areas, patios or decks adjacent to the
licensed premises (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the “outdoor area”) is
allowed under this section but subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   The applicant for a liquor license or for renewal of a license shall
include in the application a request that the license allow the consumption of
alcohol in an outdoor area or on a patio or deck in compliance with this
section. Alcohol shall not be sold or served in the outdoor area unless a
special event permit has been obtained as provided in subsection (N).
   (B)   The outdoor area shall be immediately adjacent to the building or
structure comprising the remainder of the licensed premises and shall be no
closer than ten feet from any adjacent residential property.
   (C)   The application shall contain the street address and a scaled drawing
or diagram of the location of the premises to be licensed including the outdoor
area, patio or deck and describing the proposed fencing and lighting as
required herein.
   (D)   A fence permit as provided by §
152.093 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Mayer is required.
   (E)   (1)   Any exterior stairway or ramp access to an outdoor area must be
gated so as to require all persons using the outdoor area to enter and exit
such area through the building or structure comprising the remainder of the
licensed premises.
      (2)   However, if the configuration of the licensed premises is such that
the fenced outdoor area constitutes the main entrance used by customers for
access to the building or structure, the Council, upon written request by the
licensee, may allow access to the main building through the outdoor area under
such conditions as the Council may determine appropriate.
   (F)   If any portion of the outdoor area lies within 200 feet of a
residential district, the outdoor area shall be screened in a manner approved
by the City Council so as to prevent viewing of the outdoor area from the
residential district and to dampen noise and/or deflect noise away from the
residential district.
   (G)   Exterior lighting for the outdoor area shall promote public safety and
be designed and installed so that the globe is recessed and enclosed on all
sides except the bottom and no light is cast directly at any other property.
   (H)   The outdoor area and surrounding landscaping shall be designed to
complement the building or Mructure comprising the remainder of the licensed
premises structure.
   (I)   The outdoor area shall comply with all applicable laws, zoning
district regulations and building codes, including but not limited to those
relating to handicap accessibility.
   (J)   The licensee’s dram shop liability carrier shall have acknowledged, in
writing, that the outdoor area is covered by dram shop insurance.
   (K)   The outdoor area shall meet all such other requirements as the City
Council finds necessary or desirable to protect nearby properties and the
public.
   (L)   Additional requirements applicable to licensed outdoor areas:
      (1)   An employee must be assigned to supervise the outdoor area at all
times if alcohol is allowed to be sold or served in the outdoor area pursuant
to a special events permit as provided by subsection (N);
      (2)   Any activity that would disturb the peace of the surrounding area
is prohibited in or on the outdoor area, patio or deck. This includes the
prohibition against the use of any device designed to produce, reproduce or
amplify sound, including, but not limited to loud speakers, amplifiers,
microphones, radios, televisions or musical instruments; and
      (3)   The licensee or his employees shall:
         (a)   Remove any person from the outdoor premises thai becomes unruly
or noisy;
         (b)   Maintain at least one waste receptacle in the outdoor area;
         (c)   Maintain at least one fire safe cigarette disposal receptacle in
the outdoor area;
         (d)   Pick up trash and litter generated by the operation of the
outdoor area within a reasonable distance from the outdoor area; and
         (e)   Provide and maintain a fire extinguisher in the outdoor area.
   (M)   The licensee may allow smoking on or in the outdoor area, patio or
deck, provided that such smoking is in full compliance with the Minnesota
Freedom to Breath Act of 2007.
   (N)   Special events. The City Council may waive any of the conditions
imposed under this section for special events upon written request submitted by
the licensee at least 15 days prior to the special event as may be deemed
appropriate and reasonable by the City Council. A special events permit shall
be obtained from and provided by the city for such event.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 RAFFLES, SILENT AUCTIONS AND FUNDRAISING EVENTS FOR CHARITABLE
PURPOSES OF WINE, BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS.
   No person shall conduct a silent auction, raffle of other fundraising event
pursuant to M.S. § 340A.707 with prizes or awards of wine, beer or intoxicating
liquors without notifying the City Clerk of the event al least ten days prior
to the occurrence of the event. The event holder shall provide the city with
the following information: the person or organization holding the event, the
day, time and location of the event, type of fund raising event (silent
auction, raffle or otherwise), type and amount of wine, beer, intoxicating
liquor to be awarded as prizes, and the charitable purposes to which the event
proceeds will be donated.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of license which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Ch. § 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger number
of licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum held
under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
§ 111.09 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on the last day of February of each
year unless another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on
the same date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption
and display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
§ 111.10 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council is authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to
the number specified in §
111.08.
   (A)   3.2 percent malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to
golf courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments
used exclusively for the sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor with the incidental
sale of tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2 percent malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to
a club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
111.11 shall not exceed $240 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, theaters
and exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval
of the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by
the Council under §
111.11 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 2b,
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the
licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under the
provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 4b, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to
time. The licensee shall not dispense intoxicating liquor to any person
attending or participating in a youth amateur athletic event, for persons 18
years of age or younger, held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
111.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
111.11 of this chapter, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided
by M.S. § 340A.504, subd. 3c, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to lime, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
111.03; to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time and to
theaters that meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 1(b), as it may be
amended from time to time. The fee for an on-sale wine license established by
the Council under the provisions of §
111.11, shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt
liquor with a content over 3.2 percent (strong beer) without an additional
license.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
111.11 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.414, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
   (L)   Culinary class limited on-sale licenses may be issued to a business
establishment not otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
that, as part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which
payment is made by each participant or advance reservation required. The
license authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class,
at no additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six ounces of wine
or 12 ounces of intoxicating malt liquor, during and as part of the class, for
consumption on the licensed premises only.
   (M)   Temporary off-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commission
of Public Safety, may be issued for the off-sale of wine at an auction. A
license issued under this subdivision authorizes the sale of only vintage wine
of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered for sale by any
wholesaler in Minnesota. The license may authorize the off-sale of wine for not
more than three consecutive days provided not more than 600 cases of wine are
sold at any auction. The licenses are subject to the terms, including license
fee, imposed by §
111.11.
   (N)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating liquor or on-sale 3.2 percent malt
liquor licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, may be
issued to brewers who operate a restaurant in their place of manufacture and
who meet the criteria established at M.S. § 340A.301 subd. 6(d) and 7(b), as it
may be amended from time to time. Sales under this license at on-sale may not
exceed 3,500 barrels per year. If a brew pub licensed under this section
possesses a license for off-sale under division (O) of this section, the brew
pub’s total combined retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500
barrels per year, provided that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
   (O)   Brewer off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued to a brewer that is a licensee
under division (N) of this section or that produces fewer than 3,500 barrels of
malt liquor in a year and otherwise meets the criteria established at M.S. §
340A.301 subd. 6(d) and 7(b), as it may be amended from time to time. Off-sale
of malt liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive
liquor stores in the city. Malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the
premises before the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor
stores. All malt liquor sold under this license shall be packaged in the manner
required by M.S. § 340A.301 subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time.
Sales under this license may not exceed 500 barrels per year. If a brewer
licensed under this section possesses a license under division (N) of this
section, the brewer’s total retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed
3,500 barrels per year, provided that off-sales may not total more than 500
barrels.
   (P)   Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued,
with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to brewers who
manufacture fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year for the on-sale
of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the
municipality sponsored by the brewer.
   (Q)   On-sale malt liquor licenses and/or on-sale wine licenses may be
issued to a person who is the owner of a summer collegiate league baseball team
or baseball team competing in a league established by the Minnesota Baseball
Association, or to a person holding a concessions or management contract with
the owner, for beverage sales at a ballpark or stadium located within the city
for the purposes of summer collegiate league baseball games, and town baseball
games, any other events at the ballpark or stadium. A license issued under this
division authorizes sales on all days of the week to persons attending baseball
games and any other events at the ballpark or stadium.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11; Am. Ord. 234, passed 6-13-22) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a per diem basis based on
a 365 day license year.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction in
their annual license fee by the amount specified in M.S. § 340A.408 if at the
time of initial application or renewal they:
      (1)   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the city train all
employees within 60 days of hire and annually thereafter in laws pertaining to
the sale of alcohol, the rules for identification checks, and the
responsibilities of establishments serving intoxicating liquors;
      (2)   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be 30 years old or less;
      (3)   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check; and
      (4)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this paragraph may result in
suspension of the license until the conditions of the fee reduction are met and
may result in suspension and/or revocation of the license pursuant to §
111.25.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
§ 111.12 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
§ 111.13 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall be on
a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of the
applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY; LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No retail license may be issued, maintained or renewed unless the
applicant demonstrates proof of financial responsibility with regard to
liability imposed by M.S. § 340A.801. The Clerk must submit to the Commissioner
the applicant’s proof of financial responsibility. The minimum requirement for
proof of financial responsibility may be given by filing:
      (1)   A certificate that there is in effect for the license period an
insurance policy issued by an insurer required to be licensed under M.S. §
60A.07, subd. 4, or by an insurer recognized as an eligible surplus lines
carrier pursuant to M.S. § 60A.206 or pool providing at least $100,000 of
coverage because of bodily injury to any one person in any one occurrence,
$200,000 because of bodily injury to two or more persons in any one occurrence,
$10,000 because of injury to or destruction of property of others in any one
occurrence, $100,000 for loss of means of support of any one person in any one
occurrence, and $200,000 for loss of means of support of two or more persons in
any one occurrence;
      (2)   A bond of a surety company with minimum coverages as provided in
division (A)(1) of this section; or
      (3)   A certificate of the commissioner of management and budget that the
licensee has deposited with the commissioner of management and budget $100,000
in cash or securities which may legally be purchased by savings banks or for
trust funds having a market value of $100,000.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit an insurer from providing the coverage
required by this section in combination with other insurance coverage.
   (C)   An annual aggregate policy limit for dram shop insurance of not less
than $300,000 per policy year may be included in the policy provisions.
   (D)   A liability insurance policy required by this section must provide
that it may not be canceled for:
      (1)   Any cause, except for nonpayment of premium, by either the insured
or the insurer unless the canceling party has first given 30 days’ notice in
writing to the issuing authority of intent to cancel the policy; and
      (2)   Nonpayment of premium unless the canceling party has first given
ten days’ notice in writing to the issuing authority of intent to cancel the
policy.
   (E)   In the event of a policy cancellation, the insurer will send notice to
the insuring authority at the same time that a cancellation request is received
from or a notice is sent to the insured.
   (F)   All insurance policies which provide coverage with regard lo any
liability imposed by M.S. § 340A.801 must contain at least the minimum coverage
required by this section.
   (G)   No licensee shall commence business until the offered security has
been approved by the council nor continue in business after the security is no
longer in force. The council may disapprove any bond, insurance policy or other
security upon finding that it does not meet the requirements of this code or
other law, or that the security or insurance may become unable to pay any claim
which may arise.
   (H)   Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
§ 111.15 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
§ 111.16 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
§ 111.17 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
un an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
§ 111.19 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
§ 111.20 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person or for any one place.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
any license existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of
an existing license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted within 250 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
§ 111.21 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   At least one representative of each licensee must attend all mandatory
license training seminars conducted by the Carver County Sheriffs Department or
the Minnesota Alcohol and Gambling Board. The representative need not be the
same person each time, but must hold a position of responsibility in either the
ownership or management of the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of slate law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
   (F)   Failure by on off-sale intoxicating liquor license who has received a
fee reduction pursuant to §
111.11(F) to abide with the provisions of §
111.11(F).
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in an on-sale
licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally
occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to remain upon any
table, bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30
minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquor
are sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be
employed as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person, host or
dishwashing services in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other
multi-purpose building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or
3.2 percent malt liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.25 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules
promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2 percent malt liquor, or
violation of §
111.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) of this section that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum
periods as follows.
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under division (B) of this section shall continue until the
Council determines that the financial responsibility requirements of stale law
and this chapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
111.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A
as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time,
is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a
hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person
who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or
revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive
civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to any suspension unless the
license is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period, $500;
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period, $ 1,000; and
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period, $2,000.
   (C)   The term “violation” as used in §
111.25 includes any and all violations of the provisions in this section, or of
M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated
under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time. The number of
violations shall be determined on the basis of the history of violations for
the preceding three-year period. Revocation shall occur within 60 days
following a violation for which revocation is imposed.
(Ord. 172, passed 7-25-11)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND GAMBLING
Section
Amusements
   
112.01   Amusement machines
Gambling
   
112.10   Purpose
   
112.11   Adoption of Minnesota Statues pertaining to lawful gambling
   
112.12   Restrictions on gambling sites
   
112.13   Restrictions on location of lawful gambling
   
112.14   Organizations qualified for lawful gambling licenses
   
112.15   Requirements for expenditure of profits
**** AMUSEMENTS ****
§ 112.01 AMUSEMENT MACHINES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AMUSEMENT MACHINE. Any machine or device intended for use by the public
as a source of amusement, recreation or musical selection, and which requires
for its operation, the payment of a fee by the user which is inserted directly
into the device or machine. Cigarette, candy, gum, soft drink and similar
vending machines, however, are not to be considered as AMUSEMENT MACHINES
within the meaning of this section.
      OPERATOR. The person who keeps or allows amusement machines to be kept on
premises owned by him or her or under his or her control.
      OWNER. Any person(s) who owns and places amusement machines by whatever
arrangement on the operator's premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any amusement
machine, as herein defined, to allow any amusement machine to be maintained or
operated within the corporate limits of the city unless the owner or operator
has first obtained a license thereof, as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Any person or persons desiring to maintain or operate an amusement
machine within the corporate limits of the city shall make application for a
license therefor, as herein provided, to the City Clerk and shall pay therefor
the sum of $40 per year for each amusement machine. After referring the license
application to the City Council for approval, the City Clerk shall issue the
license, which license shall run for one year at a time. The sum to be
established by resolution of the City Council per amusement machine shall be
paid to the City Clerk at the time of the application. In the event that the
application shall be refused by the City Council, the fee or fees paid by the
applicant shall be refunded to him or her.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-14-83) (Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** GAMBLING ****
§ 112.10 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council recognizes that, although lawful gambling as
authorized by M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.22 may not appeal to all members of
society, it is an activity that is engaged in by a significant portion of the
population and the financial profits therefrom may or may not be used for the
benefit of society without the enforcement provisions of the Minnesota
Statutes.
   (B)   The City Council further recognizes that fraternal, religious,
veterans and other nonprofit organizations provide a much needed and useful
service to mankind and the City Council is especially appreciative of the goals
and objectives of such organizations established within the City of Mayer. The
Council commends these organizations for their contributions to worthy causes
within and without the City of Mayer, and, accordingly, the Council supports
the purposes for which M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.22 were adopted.
   (C)   The ability to obtain a license under M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.22 to
conduct lawful gambling within the City of Mayer is a privilege granted by the
State of Minnesota and the City of Mayer and not a right guaranteed by the
Constitution of the United States of America or the State of Minnesota.
Accordingly, in addition to the purposes for which M.S. §§ 349.11 through
349.22 were adopted, the purpose of this subchapter is to ensure that licenses
to conduct lawful gambling within the City of Mayer are issued only to
organizations who can be expected to expend the profits from such gambling for
lawful purposes within the City of Mayer or to benefit residents of the city
and its immediate surrounding area.
(Ord. 104, passed 3-18-02)
§ 112.11 ADOPTION OF MINNESOTA STATUTES PERTAINING TO LAWFUL GAMBLING.
   Minnesota Statutes §§ 349.11 through 349.22 are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this subchapter as completely as if the statutes were fully
set forth herein.
(Ord. 104, passed 3-18-02)
§ 112.12 RESTRICTIONS ON GAMBLING SITES.
   No more than one licensed organization may conduct lawful gambling on any
premises at which there is a gambling site at any one time. All leases
pertaining to lawful gambling shall state the days of the week and times during
which a licensee may conduct lawful gambling on the premises. This prohibition
shall, however, not apply to the conducting of raffles.
(Ord. 104, passed 3-18-02)
§ 112.13 RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATION OF LAWFUL GAMBLING.
   Lawful gambling consisting of the use of paddlewheels, tipboards and pull-
tabs may only be conducted by a licensed organization on premises owned by such
organization or on premises leased by such organization and which premises has
a valid “on-sale” liquor license issued by the City of Mayer pursuant to the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Mayer, or at the Mayer Community Center upon
request by the licensed organization which request shall be subject to approval
by the City Council on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 104, passed 3-18-02)
§ 112.14 ORGANIZATIONS QUALIFIED FOR LAWFUL GAMBLING LICENSES.
   Approval of applications for lawful gambling licenses pursuant to M.S. §§
349.11 through 349.22 shall be granted by the City of Mayer only to
organizations qualified under the Minnesota Statutes and in which 50% or more
of the active members of such organization reside within the City of Mayer and
which such organization meets regularly at least once per month and at least
90% of such regularly scheduled meetings are conducted within the City of
Mayer.
(Ord. 104, passed 3-18-02)
§ 112.15 REQUIREMENT FOR EXPENDITURE OF PROFITS.
   (A)   Ten percent of net profits. A licensed organization must contribute
from its net profits, as defined in M.S. § 349.213, derived from lawful
gambling activities conducted within the city, 10% per year thereof to a fund
hereby established, administered and regulated by the city, without cost to
such fund, for disbursement by the city for all lawful purposes.
   (B)   Fifty percent of gross profits. In addition to the contribution
required by division (A) above, a licensed organization must expend not less
than 50% per year of its gross profits derived from lawful gambling activities
conducted within the city on lawful purposes conducted or located within the
City of Mayer trade area. The City of Mayer’s trade area is defined as the City
of Mayer, Camden Township, Hollywood Township, Watertown Township and Waconia
Township.
(Ord. 104, passed 3-18-02)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Permit required; exceptions
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Investigation and issuance; expiration
   
113.05   Form and published notice
   
113.06   Permits to be carried and exhibited
   
113.07   Permit fees
   
113.08   Prohibited practices
   
113.09   Use of public and private property
   
113.10   Revocation of permit; re-application
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 93
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Any person or thing which:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the health, safety, comfort or repose
of the public;
      (2)   Offends public decency;
      (3)   Interferes with the use of or obstructs, or tends to obstruct or
render dangerous for passage a lake, stream, navigable river or public water,
park, square, sidewalk, street, alley or highway;
      (4)   Depreciates the value of the property of the inhabitants of the
city; or
      (5)   In any manner, renders the inhabitants of the city insecure in life
or in use of property.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, who goes from
house to house, from place to place or from street to street, conveying or
transporting goods, wares or merchandise, including magazines, books,
periodicals or personal property of any nature whatsoever, or offering or
showing the same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to
purchasers.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Includes any person, firm or corporation, whether as
owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city or not, who
engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and
merchandise, including magazines, books, periodicals or personal property of
any nature whatsoever, within the city, and who, in furtherance of the purpose,
hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle,
trailer, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel or motel room, lodging house,
apartment, shop or any street, alley, vacant lot or other place within the city
for exhibition and sale of goods, wares and merchandise either privately or at
public auction.
   SOLICITORS.
      (1)   Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, who goes from
house to house, from place to place or from street to street, soliciting or
taking or attempting to take orders for sales of goods, wares or merchandise,
including magazines, books, periodicals or personal property of any nature
whatsoever, for future delivery, or for service to be performed in the future,
including orders for the performance of maintenance or repair service on home
or places of business, whether or not the individual has, carries or shows a
sample of the subject of the order or whether or not he or she is collecting
advance payments on the orders.
      (2)   The definition includes any person, firm or corporation, that
hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle,
trailer, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel or motel room, lodging house,
apartment, shop, street, alley, vacant lot or other place within the city for
the purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for organization, society,
association or corporation, who solicits in its name money, donations of money
or property or financial assistance of any kind or sells or distributes any
item of literature or merchandise for which a fee is charged, or solicited from
persons other than members of the organization, upon the streets, in office or
business buildings, by house to house canvass, or in public places for a
charitable, religious, patriotic or philanthropic purpose.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-12-93)
§ 113.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or transient merchant to
engage in any business or solicitation activities within the city without first
obtaining a permit therefore in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Sales of goods, merchandise or service to business, commercial or
industrial users at their usual place of business;
      (2)   Deliveries of previously sold goods or services in the regular
course of business or deliveries or sales made as a part of the regular
established route to preexisting customers;
      (3)   Vendors who make an uninvited call upon the occupant of a residence
as a preliminary step to the establishment of regular route services for the
sale and delivery of commodities and services to regular customers such as
vendors of milk, groceries and other perishable commodities, soft water
services, laundry and dry cleaning pick-up and delivery and newspapers;
      (4)   Any sale under court order;
      (5)   Any bona fide auction sale by a city resident;
      (6)   Sidewalk sales authorized by the City Council;
      (7)   Garage sales or rummage sales when conducted by a non-profit
organization, or when conducted upon the premises of the owner of the articles
being offered for sale, provided that the sales do not last longer than 72
hours, and provided that no more than three sales be conducted on any given
location within one year;
      (8)   Sale of goods and/or admissions by local school students to a
school function or by local bona fide civic or non-profit organizations for
entertainment functions sponsored by the organizations; and
      (9)   Sales or services provided by persons who are licensed by the State
of Minnesota or the United States and who are exempt by law from the provisions
of this section.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-12-93; Am. Ord. 148, passed 9-22-08)
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Applicants for a permit under this chapter shall file with the City Clerk a
sworn application in writing on a form to be furnished by the city which will
give the following information:
   (A)   The name and permanent home and business address of the applicant and
all persons to be associated with the applicant in the business or activity;
   (B)   A brief description of the nature of the business or the purpose or
cause for which the permit is sought;
   (C)   If the permit is sought to be issued in the name of an organization or
other business entity, the names and addresses of the principal officers and
directors of the main office and the address and phone number of the main
office or headquarters of the organization conducting or sponsoring the
activity and the names and addresses of the persons directly supervising and
responsible for the business, solicitation or activity to be conducted;
   (D)   In the case of the transient merchants, the place where the business
is the be carried on, the length of time for which the permit is sought and a
description of the goods or merchandise to be sold;
   (E)   A list of the last three municipalities, if any, where the applicant
carried on a business or activity similar to the one for which the permit is
sought;
   (F)   The names and addresses of at least three references who will
substantiate the applicants moral character and business responsibility or
other evidence of the character and responsibility of the applicant; and
   (G)   Applicant’s Minnesota sales tax permit number, if applicable.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-12-93; Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
§ 113.04 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the City Clerk, or
other person as may be designated by the City Council, shall institute an
investigation of the applicant’s business and moral character as is deemed
necessary for the protection of the public good. The investigation may include
referral to and a report made by the city police or County Sheriff’s Office.
      (2)   Upon completion of such investigation and report as determined
appropriate, the City Clerk or City Administrator may approve the application
and issue the permit. If the application is not approved, the applicant shall
be notified of such disapproval and the reasons therefor, and that no permit
will be issued and that the applicant may appeal the decision to the City
Council and that any such appeal will be placed on the agenda of the next
regular Council meeting following receipt of the appeal.
      (3)   An appeal must be in writing and the applicant or its
representative must appear in person at the Council meeting.
   (B)   All annual permits issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
expire at midnight on December 31, in the year when issued. Non-annual licenses
shall expire at midnight on the date specified on the license.
   (C)   All permits shall be nontransferable. No refund shall be made or
unused portions of fees.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-12-93; Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99; Am. Ord. 166, passed 6-
28-10)
§ 113.05 FORM AND PUBLISHED NOTICE.
   The form of the permit to be issued and the notice to be published in the
newspaper shall be as determined appropriate by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-12-93; Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
§ 113.06 PERMITS TO BE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED.
   Permits shall be carried by the permittee or conspicuously posted in its
place of business and the permit shall be exhibited to any officer or citizen
upon request. In the case where more than one individual shall be involved in
the activity or solicitation, the applicant shall make sufficient copies of the
permit to be made available to each peddler or solicitor acting on behalf of
the group, organization or legal entity.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-12-93)
§ 113.07 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fee for any permit required to be issued under this chapter shall
be established annually by ordinance as part of the City Fee Schedule. Until
the next fee schedule is adopted, the fee for a permit under this chapter shall
be $100. The fee shall be payable at the time of the filing of the application.
   (B)   No fee shall be required from any bona fide charitable, religious,
civic, educational or political organization, provided the proceeds of any sale
or solicitation are being used for the legitimate purposes of the organization.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-12-93; Am. Ord. 148, passed 9-22-08)
§ 113.08 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant to:
   (A)   Engage in solicitation for any unlawful business or organizational
purpose or activity;
   (B)   Engage in harassment, intimidation, deception, exert pressure,
threaten or any other unlawful practice during the course of solicitation or
sale;
   (C)   Refuse to leave the premises when requested by the owner, lessee,
person in charge thereof, or the person being solicited;
   (D)   Call attention to the business or activity by crying out, blowing a
horn, ringing a bell or any loud or unusual noise;
   (E)   Display merchandise or make sales or solicitations directly from
vehicles or trailers on city streets or alleys; or
   (F)   Engage in business after the hour of 8:00 p.m. or before 8:00 a.m.,
unless a previous appointment has been made for a different time.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-12-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 USE OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No permittee shall have any exclusive right to any location in the
public streets or alleys, nor shall any be permitted a stationary location
thereon, nor shall be permitted to operate in a congested area where the
operation might impede or inconvenience the public use of the streets or
alleys. For the purpose of this chapter, the judgement of a police officer,
exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is
congested and the public impeded or inconvenienced.
   (B)   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall sell or offer for
sale any goods, wares or merchandise or personal property of any nature
whatsoever within the city from a stationary location on public or private
property without first obtaining the written consent of the property owner or
authorized occupant.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-12-93)
§ 113.10 REVOCATION OF PERMIT; RE-APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
revoked by the Council of the city after notice and hearing for any of the
following causes:
         (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application for the permit;
         (b)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement in the course of
carrying on the business as solicitor, canvasser, peddler, transient merchant,
itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor;
         (c)   Any violation of this chapter;
         (d)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor; or
         (e)   Conducting the business of peddler, canvasser, solicitor,
transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor, as the case may be,
in an unlawful manner or in a manner as to constitute a breach of peace or to
constitute a menace to health, safety or general welfare of the public.
      (2)   Notice of the hearing of revocation of a permit shall be given by
the City Clerk in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint
and the time and place of hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid,
to the permittee at his or her last known address or address set forth on his
or her application at least seven days prior to the date set for hearing, or
shall be delivered by a police officer in the same manner as a summons at least
five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   No permittee whose permit has been revoked shall reapply until at
least six months have elapsed since the last previous revocation.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-12-93; Am. Ord. 94, passed 12-13-99)
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
In General
   
114.01   Purpose; findings
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Classification
   
114.04   Defenses
   
114.05   Injunction
License
   
114.15   Application
   
114.16   Issuance
   
114.17   Fees; investigation fees
   
114.18   Posting
   
114.19   Inspection
   
114.20   Expiration
   
114.21   Suspension
   
114.22   Revocation
   
114.23   Appeal
   
114.24   Transfer
Additional Regulations
   
114.35   Escort agencies
   
114.36   Nude model studios
   
114.37   Sexually oriented theaters; sexually oriented motion picture theaters
   
114.38   Sexually oriented motels
   
114.39   Exhibition of sexually explicit films or videos
   
114.40   Location of sexually oriented businesses
 
   
114.99   Penalty
**** IN GENERAL ****
§ 114.01 PURPOSE; FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city, to guard against the inception and transmission of
disease, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations. The provisions of
this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually
oriented materials, Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter
to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected
by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market.
   (B)   Findings. The City Council further finds that experience from other
cities demonstrates that sexually oriented use businesses conducted in private
by members of the same or the opposite sex, and employing personnel with no
specialized training, are susceptible to operation in a manner contravening,
subverting or endangering the health, safety and welfare of members of the
community by being the sites of acts of prostitution, illicit sex, and
occasions of violent crimes, thus requiring close inspection, licensing, and
regulation.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USES. Includes adult bookstores, adult motion picture
theaters, adult motion picture sales/rentals, adult mini-motion picture
theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/bath house/sauna facilities,
adult companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult
health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion
picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body
painting studios, and other premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses
or places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which there is an
emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas which are capable of being seen
by members of the public.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus, or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation or
unclothes genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented acts of conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such person;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USES, ACCESSORY. The offering of retail goods for sale
which are classified as sexually oriented uses on a limited scale and which are
incidental to the primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the
establishment. Examples of such items include, but are not limited to, the sale
of adult magazines, the sale and/or rental of adult motion pictures, the sale
of adult novelties, and the like.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USES, PRINCIPAL. The offering of goods and/or services
which are classified as sexually oriented uses as a primary or sole activity of
a business or establishment and include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or
business which provides the service of applying paint or other substance,
whether transparent or non-transparent, to or on the body of a patron when such
body is wholly or partially nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a
building used for the barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed
matter, pictures, slides, records, audio tape, video tape, or motion picture
film if such building or portion of a building is not open to the public
generally but only to one or more classes of the public excluding any minor by
reason of age or if a substantial or significant portion of such items are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, CABARET. A building or portion of a building
used for providing dancing or other live entertainment, if such building or
portion of a building excludes minors by virtue of age or if such dancing or
other live entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
the presentation, display, depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship
establishment which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the
service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between
an employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap
parlor which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion, if such service
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
      (6)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, ESCORT SERVICE. A business that provides one
or more persons to accompany a customer to places and/or activities that occur
off-premises of the escort service operation, if such service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (7)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which
excludes minors by reason of age, or if such club is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (8)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, HOTEL OR MOTEL. ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A
hotel or motel from which minors are specifically excluded from patronage and
wherein material is presented which is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (9)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage
parlor or health club which restricts minors by reason of age, and which
provides the services of massage, if such service is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (10)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or
portion of building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for
presenting material if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing
practice excludes minors by virtue of age, or if such material is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (11)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose
major business is the provision, to customers, of figure models who are so
provided with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual
gratification to such customers and who engage in specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon,
sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted by such
customers.
      (12)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which
the public is permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or
motor picture machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are
maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time,
and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (13)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or
portion of a building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting
material if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice
excludes minors by virtue of age or if such material is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
      (14)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a
principal activity the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or
devices which are designed for sexual stimulation.
      (15)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by
reason of age, or which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a
cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (16)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE, STEAM ROOM/BATH HOUSE FACILITY. A building
or portion of a building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room
used for the purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing
steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if such building or
portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age or if the service
provided by the steam room/bath house facility is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the City of Mayer.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
use business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant
on the application for a license.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE BUSINESS. The increase in
floor area occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor area existed
on the effective date of this chapter.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE BUSINESS. Means
and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sub-lease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05)
§ 114.03 CLASSIFICATION.
   The following uses are classified as:
   (A)   Sexually oriented uses, accessory.
      (1)   Comprise no more than 10% of the floor area of the establishment in
which it is located;
      (2)   Comprise no more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire
business operation;
      (3)   Not involving or including any activity except the sale or rental
of merchandise.
   (B)   Sexually oriented uses, principal.
      (1)   Body painting studio;
      (2)   Bookstore;
      (3)   Cabaret;
      (4)   Companionship establishment;
      (5)   Conversation/rap parlor;
      (6)   Health/sport club;
      (7)   Hotel or motel;
      (8)   Massage parlor, health club;
      (9)   Mini-motion picture theater;
      (10)   Modeling studio;
      (11)   Motion picture arcade;
      (12)   Motion picture theater;
      (13)   Novelty business;
      (14)   Sauna;
      (15)   Steam room/bath house facility.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05)
§ 114.04 DEFENSES.
   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person appearing in
a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state; a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (C)   In a structure:
      (1)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05)
§ 114.05 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
**** LICENSE ****
§ 114.15 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Required and exempt.
      (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate a sexually oriented
use, principal, without having first secured a license as herein provided.
      (2)   Sexually oriented uses, accessory, shall not require a license
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city and must include the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, residence, phone
number, and birth date of the applicant. If the applicant is a partnership, the
name, residence, phone number, and birth date of each general and limited
partner. If the applicant is a corporation, the names, residences, phone
numbers, and birth dates of all persons holding more than 5% of the issued and
outstanding stock of the corporation.
      (2)   The name, address, phone number, and birth date of the operator and
manager of the adult establishment, if different from the owner’s.
      (3)   The address and legal description of the premises where the adult
establishment is to be located.
      (4)   A statement detailing any gross misdemeanor or felony convictions
relating to sex offenses, obscenity, or the operation of an adult establishment
or business by the applicant, operator, or manager. In the case of a
corporation, a statement detailing any felony convictions by the owners of more
than 5% of the issued and outstanding stock of the corporation.
      (5)   Whether or not the applicant, operator or manager has ever applied
for or held a license to operate a similar type of business in another
community. In the case of a corporation, whether or not those owners of more
than 5% of the issued and outstanding stock have ever applied for or held a
license to operate a similar type of business in another community.
      (6)   The activities and types of business to be conducted.
      (7)   The hours of operation.
      (8)   The provisions made to restrict access by minors.
      (9)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities, drawn to scale.
      (10)   Applicants who must comply with §
114.39 shall submit a diagram, drawn to scale.
   (C)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law by the Fire Department and Building Official.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented use business is
an individual, the individual must sign the application for a license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented use business
is other than an individual, each individual who has a 5% or greater interest
in the business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each
applicant must be qualified under §
114.16 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.16 ISSUANCE.
   The City Administrator shall approve the issuance of a license to an
applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application unless the
administrator finds one or more of the following to be true:
   (A)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
   (B)   An applicant is delinquent in his or her payment to the city of taxes,
fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or her or imposed upon him or
her in relation to a sexually oriented business.
   (C)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
   (D)   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of this
chapter within two years immediately preceding the application. The fact that a
conviction is being appealed shall have no effect.
   (E)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a license
by the city to operate a sexually oriented use business within the preceding 12
months, or residing with a person whose license to operate a sexually oriented
use business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months.
   (F)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented use business have
not been approved by the Fire Department and the Building Official as being in
compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
   (G)   The license fee required by the chapter has not been paid.
   (H)   The required background check is not yet complete.
   (I)   An applicant has been employed in a sexually oriented use business in
a managerial capacity within the preceding 12 months and has demonstrated that
he or she is unable to operate or manage a sexually oriented use business
premises in a peaceful and law abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
   (J)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with this code.
   (K)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted of a crime:
      (1)   Involving any of the following offenses:
         (a)   Prostitution as described in M.S. § 609.321;
         (b)   Solicitation, inducement or promotion of prostitution as
described in M.S. § 609.322;
         (c)   Receiving profit derived from prostitution as described in M.S.
§ 609.323;
         (d)   Other prohibited acts relating to prostitution as described in
M.S. § 609.324;
         (e)   Obscenity as described in M.S. § 617.241;
         (f)   Sale, dissemination, distribution, display or exhibition of
harmful material to minors as described in M.S. §§ 617.293 and 617.294;
         (g)   Sexual performance by a child as described in M.S. § 617.246;
         (h)   Dissemination or possession of child pornography as described in
M.S. § 617.247;
         (i)   Indecent exposure as described in M.S. § 617.23;
         (j)   Criminal sexual conduct as described in M.S. §§ 609.342,
609.343, 609.344, and 609.345;
         (k)   Incest, as described in M.S. § 609.365; or
         (l)   Criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses.
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
   (L)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or applicant’s spouse.
   (M)   An applicant who has been convicted or whose spouse has been convicted
of an offense listed in division (K)(1) above may qualify for a sexually
oriented use business license only when the time period required by division
(K)(2) above has elapsed.
   (N)   The license, if granted, shall state the name of the person or persons
to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the sexually
oriented use business. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or
near the entrance to the sexually oriented use business so that it may be
easily read at any time.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.17 FEES; INVESTIGATION FEES.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented use business license shall be set by
resolution of the City Council. The investigation fee for the purpose of
issuing a license shall be set by resolution of the City Council. In the event
that the license is denied upon application, the license fee shall be refunded;
however, no part of the license investigation fee shall be returned to the
applicant. No part of the annual license fee shall be refunded if the license
is suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05)
§ 114.18 POSTING.
   Licensed premises must have the license posted in a conspicuous place at all
times.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.19 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Carver
County Sheriff’s Department, Fire Department, and Building Inspection Division
to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented use business for the purpose of
insuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented use business or their agent
or employee commits an offense if the person refuses to permit a lawful
inspection of the premises by a representative of the Carver County Sheriff’s
Department at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of a sexually
oriented motel, which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a
permanent or temporary habitation.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.20 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Each renewal license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year.
All licenses expire on December 31 of each year. Each license may be renewed
only by making application as provided in §
114.15 of this chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least 90 days
before the expiration date. If the City Administrator determines good and
sufficient cause is shown by the applicant for failure to file a timely renewal
application, the City Administrator may, if other provisions of this chapter
are complied with, grant the application.
   (B)   When the City Administrator denies renewal of a license, the applicant
shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If,
subsequent to denial, the City Administrator finds that the basis for denial of
the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted
a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 SUSPENSION.
   The City Administrator may suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30
days following written notice and an opportunity to be heard if the
Administrator determines that a licensee or an employee of a license has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter;
   (B)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the sexually
oriented use business premises;
   (C)   Refused to allow inspection of the sexually oriented use business
premises as authorized in this chapter;
   (D)   Permitted unlawful gambling by any person on the sexually oriented use
business premises;
   (E)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented use
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05)
§ 114.22 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Administrator may revoke a license preceded by written notice
and an opportunity to be heard if a cause of suspension under §
114.21 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The City Administrator may revoke a license if the City Administrator
determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information to the city during
the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
use business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
114.16(K)(1) for which the time period required in §
114.16(K)(2) has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
114.16(K)(1), for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were employees of the sexually oriented use business at the time the
offenses were committed;
      (7)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or sexual contact to occur
in or on the licensed premises. The term SEXUAL CONTACT shall have the meaning
as it is defined in M.S. § 609.341, Subd. 11(b); or
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city of ad valorem
taxes, local lodging tax, or other taxes or fees related to the sexually
oriented use business.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Division (B)(7) of this section does not apply to sexually oriented
motels as a grounds for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee
knowingly allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sexual contact to occur in a public place or within public
view.
   (E)   When the City Administrator revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
use business license for one year from the date revocation became effective.
If, subsequent to revocation, the City Administrator finds that the basis for
the revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective. If the license was revoked under §
114.16(K)(1), an applicant may not be granted another license until the
appropriate number of years required under §
114.16(K)(2) have elapsed.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.23 APPEAL.
   (A)   Generally. If the City Administrator denies the issuance of a license,
or suspends, or revokes a license, the Administrator shall send to the
applicant, or licensee, by certified mail, return receipt requested, written
notice of the action, and the right to an appeal. The aggrieved party may
appeal the decision of the City Administrator within ten days of receiving
notice of the city’s action. The filing of an appeal stays the action of the
City Administrator in suspending or revoking a license until the City Council
makes a final decision.
   (B)   Procedure. The City Council may appoint a committee of the Council or
an independent hearing officer to hear the matter, report findings of fact, and
a recommendation for disposition to the Council. Hearings on the appeal shall
be open to the public and the licensee or applicant shall have the right to
appear and be represented by legal counsel and to offer evidence on its behalf.
The City Council shall make a final decision within 30 days of the conclusion
of the hearing.
   (C)   Additional requirements. The City Council may condition denial,
suspension, revocation, or non-renewal of a license upon appropriate terms and
conditions.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.24 TRANSFER.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented use business under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty. see §
114.99
**** ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS ****
§ 114.35 ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.36 NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she appears in a state of nudity
or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.37 SEXUALLY ORIENTED THEATERS; SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTION PICTURE THEATERS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a person
under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity or on the premises of
a sexually oriented theater or sexually oriented motion picture theater.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (A) if the person under
18 years was in a rest room not open to public view or persons of the opposite
sex.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.38 SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is a sexually oriented motel as that term is defined in this
chapter.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does not have
a sexually oriented use business license, he or she rents or sub-rents a
sleeping room to a person and, for the same time period the room is rented to
that person, he or she rents or sub-rents the same sleeping room again to
another person.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the terms RENT or SUB-RENT mean the act
of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.39 EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented use
business, other than a sexually oriented motel, which exhibits on the premises
in a viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented use business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station shall not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The City Administrator may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal
application if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and
certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it
was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the City Administrator or his
or her designee.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
rest rooms. Rest rooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. The
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose must be
visible from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in this
division (A)(5) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to ensure that
the view area specified in division (A)(5) above remain unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times that
any patron is present in the premises and to ensure that no patron is permitted
access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in
which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to
division (A)(1) of this section.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present on the premises.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(8) above
commits an offense if the person knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.40 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business shall not be located or operated in any
zoning district other than as specified in
Chapter 152: Zoning.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business shall not be located or operated within
1,320 feet of the following:
      (1)   A boundary of any residential or agricultural district as defined
in
Chapter 152.
      (2)   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use.
      (3)   A religious institution or church which is used primarily for
religious worship and related religious activities.
      (4)   A public or private educational facility including but not limited
to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, charter schools;
school includes the school grounds.
      (5)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities.
   (C)   A sexually oriented business shall not be located or operated within
250 feet of another sexually oriented business or on a lot adjacent to an
existing sexually oriented business.
   (D)   For the purpose of divisions (B) and (C) above, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part
of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in divisions (B) and (C).
   (E)   For purposes of division (C) above, the distance between a sexually
oriented business and any other building, structure or business shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or
objects or political boundaries, from the closest exterior wall of the
structure in which each business is located.
(Ord. 220, passed 4-23-18)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as
prescribed in §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 114, passed 2-28-05)
CHAPTER 115: CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
   
115.01   Administration
   
115.02   Registration of cannabis businesses
   
115.03   Requirements for cannabis businesses
   
115.04   Temporary cannabis events
   
115.05   Local government as a cannabis retailer
§ 115.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Findings and purpose. The City of Mayer makes the following
legislative findings:
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of M.S.
Ch. 342, as it may be amended from time to time, which authorizes the City of
Mayer to protect the public health, safety, welfare of their residents by
regulating cannabis businesses within the legal boundaries of the city.
      (2)   The City of Mayer finds and concludes that the proposed provisions
are appropriate and lawful land use regulations, that the proposed amendments
will promote the community’s interest in reasonable stability in zoning for now
and in the future, and that the proposed provisions are in the public interest
and for the public good.
   (B)   Authority and jurisdiction. The City of Mayer has the authority to
adopt this chapter pursuant to:
      (1)   M.S. § 342.13(c), as it may be amended from time to time, regarding
the authority of a local unit of government to adopt reasonable restrictions of
the time, place, and manner of the operation of a cannabis business provided
that such restrictions do not prohibit the establishment or operation of
cannabis businesses.
      (2)   M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding
the local registration and enforcement requirements of state-licensed cannabis
retail businesses and lower-potency hemp edible retail businesses.
      (3)   M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding the use of cannabis in public places.
      (4)   M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding
the authority of a local authority to adopt zoning ordinances.
   (C)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (D)   Enforcement. The City Administrator is responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions
of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements constitutes a
misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. Violations of this chapter can
occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated
activity listed in this chapter.
   (E)   Definitions. Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases
contained in M.S. § 342.01, as it may be amended from time to time, and the
rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, shall have the same meanings
in this chapter.
      CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis
plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to
mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
      CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A retail location and the retail location(s)
of mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, and lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
      CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
      DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human
Services to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child’s own
home for gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
      LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01, subd. 50, as
it may be amended from time to time.
      OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as “OCM” in this chapter.
      PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
      PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals;
nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings, and other places of public accommodation.
      RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462, subd.
23, as it may be amended from time to time.
      RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the City of Mayer
or Carver County to a state-licensed cannabis retail business.
      SCHOOL. A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05, as it may be
amended from time to time, or a nonpublic school that must meet the reporting
requirements under M.S. § 120A.24, as it may be amended from time to time.
      STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota’s
Office of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
(Ord. 247, passed 11-25-24)
§ 115.02 REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Delegation of registration authority to Carver County.
      (1)   The City of Mayer may choose to delegate or resume registration
authority to and from Carver County at their discretion. Delegating or resuming
registration authority must be completed by City Council adopting a resolution
to said effect. The adopted resolution must then be transferred to Carver
County after adoption.
      (2)   The limit of cannabis retail businesses shall be no fewer than one
registration for every 12,500 residents within Mayer city limits. This
provision shall survive and be in effect whether registration authority resides
with the City of Mayer or Carver County.
      (3)   Should the City of Mayer choose to delegate registration authority
to Carver County, the remainder of this section is no longer in effect until
such time when registration authority is resumed.
   (B)   Consent to registering of cannabis businesses.
      (1)   No individual or entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis
retail business within the City of Mayer without first registering with the
city.
      (2)   Any state-licensed cannabis retail business that sells to a
customer or patient without valid retail registration shall incur a civil
penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the state shall not issue
a license to any cannabis business to operate in Indian country, as defined in
United States Code, Title 18, Section 1151, of a Minnesota Tribal government
without the consent of the Tribal government.
   (C)   Compliance checks prior to retail registration.
      (1)   Prior to issuance of a cannabis retail business registration, the
City of Mayer shall conduct a preliminary compliance check to ensure compliance
with local ordinances.
      (2)   Pursuant to M.S. Ch. 342, as it may be amended from time to time,
within 30 days of receiving a copy of a state license application from OCM, the
City of Mayer shall certify on a form provided by OCM whether a proposed
cannabis retail business complies with local zoning ordinances and, if
applicable, whether the proposed business complies with the State Fire Code and
Building Code.
   (D)   Registration and application procedure.
      (1)   The City of Mayer shall not charge an application fee.
      (2)   A registration fee, as established in the City of Mayer Fee
Schedule, shall be charged to applicants depending on the type of retail
business license applied for.
      (3)   An initial retail registration fee shall not exceed $500 or half
the amount of an initial state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, as it may be
amended from time to time, whichever is less. The initial registration fee
shall include the initial retail registration fee and the first annual renewal
fee.
      (4)   Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by the City of Mayer
shall be charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent renewal
thereafter.
      (5)   A renewal retail registration fee shall not exceed $1,000 or half
the amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, as it may be
amended from time to time, whichever is less.
      (6)   A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail
location may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the
lesser of a single retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the
adult-use retail business.
   (E)   Application submittal. The City of Mayer shall issue a retail
registration to a state-licensed cannabis retail business that adheres to the
requirements of M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the City of Mayer. Said form shall include,
but is not limited to:
         (a)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
         (b)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
         (c)   The address and parcel ID for the property which the
registration is sought; and
         (d)   Certification that the applicant complies with the requirements
of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      (2)   The applicant shall include with the form:
         (a)   The registration fee; and
         (b)   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM license
pre-approval.
      (3)   Once an application is considered complete, the City Clerk shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the City Council for approval or denial.
      (4)   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
   (F)   Application approval.
      (1)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not be
approved if the cannabis retail business would exceed the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses permitted under this section.
      (2)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not be
approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
      (3)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application that meets
the requirements of this chapter shall be approved.
   (G)   Annual compliance checks.
      (1)   The Carver County Sheriff’s Office shall complete at minimum one
compliance check per calendar year of every cannabis business to assess if the
business meets age verification requirements, as required under M.S. §§ 342.22,
subd. 4(b) and 342.24, as they may be amended from time to time, and this
chapter.
      (2)   The Carver County Sheriff’s Office shall conduct at minimum one
unannounced age verification compliance check at least once per calendar year.
      (3)   Age verification compliance checks shall involve persons at least
17 years of age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written consent of
a parent or guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt to purchase
adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products under the direct supervision of a
law enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of government.
      (4)   Any failures under this division (G) must be reported to the Office
of Cannabis Management.
   (H)   Location change. A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be
required to submit a new application for registration if it seeks to move to a
new location still within the legal boundaries of the City of Mayer.
   (I)   Renewal of registration.
      (1)   The City of Mayer shall renew an annual registration of a state-
licensed cannabis retail business at the same time OCM renews the cannabis
retail business’
      (2)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall apply to renew
registration on a form established by the City of Mayer.
      (3)   A cannabis retail registration issued under this section shall not
be transferred.
   (J)   Renewal fees. The City of Mayer may charge a renewal fee for the
registration starting at the second renewal, as established in the City of
Mayer’s fee schedule.
   (K)   Renewal application. The application for renewal of a retail
registration shall include, but is not limited to, the items required under
division (E) of this section, Application submittal.
   (L)   Suspension of registration.
      (1)   The City of Mayer may suspend a cannabis retail business’
registration if it violates the ordinance of the City of Mayer or poses an
immediate threat to the health or safety of the public. The City of Mayer shall
immediately notify the cannabis retail business in writing the grounds for the
suspension.
      (2)   The City of Mayer shall immediately notify the OCM in writing the
grounds for the suspension. OCM will provide the City of Mayer and cannabis
business retailer a response to the complaint within seven calendar days and
perform any necessary inspections within 30 calendar days.
   (M)   Length of suspension.
      (1)   A jurisdiction can wait for a determination from the OCM before
reinstating a registration.
      (2)   The suspension of a cannabis retail business registration may be
for up to 30 calendar days, unless OCM suspends the license for a longer
period. The business may not make sales to customers if their registration is
suspended.
      (3)   The City of Mayer may reinstate a registration if it determines
that the violations have been resolved.
      (4)   The City of Mayer shall reinstate a registration if OCM determines
that the violation(s) have been resolved.
   (N)   Civil penalties. Subject to M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5(e), as it may be
amended from time to time, the City of Mayer may impose a civil penalty, as
specified in the City of Mayer’s fee schedule, for registration violations, not
to exceed $2,000.
   (O)   Limiting of registrations. The City of Mayer shall limit the number of
cannabis retail businesses to no fewer than one registration for every 12,500
residents within city limits.
(Ord. 247, passed 11-25-24)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see § 36.02
§ 115.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Minimum buffer requirements.
      (1)   Buffer distances shall be measured from the property line of the
proposed cannabis business to the property line of the protected use. The
buffer distance for a property platted as a condominium shall be measured from
the parent parcel property line to the property line of the protected use. A
cannabis business is prohibited from operating within the following buffer
distances of the stated locations:
         (a)   Within 1,000 feet of a school;
         (b)   Within 500 feet of a daycare;
         (c)   Within 500 feet of a residential treatment facility;
         (d)   Within 500 feet of an attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors, including a playground or athletic field.
      (2)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, subd. 1e, as it may be amended from
time to time, nothing in this section shall prohibit an active cannabis
business or a cannabis business seeking registration from continuing operation
at the same site if a school, daycare, residential treatment facility,
attraction within a public park that is regularly used by minors moves within
the minimum buffer zone.
   (B)   Zoning and land use.
      (1)   Cannabis cultivation. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cultivation are permitted as an interim use permit in the following zoning
districts:
         (a)   (A) Agricultural District;
         (b)   (C/I) Commercial/Industrial District.
      (2)   Cannabis manufacturer. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cannabis manufacturer are permitted as an interim use permit in the following
zoning districts: (C/I) Commercial/Industrial District.
      (3)   Hemp manufacturer. Businesses licensed or endorsed for low-potency
hemp edible manufacturers permitted as an interim use permit in the following
zoning districts: (C/I) Commercial/Industrial District.
      (4)   Wholesale. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for wholesale
are permitted as an interim use permit in the following zoning districts: (C/I)
Commercial/Industrial District.
      (5)   Cannabis retail. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cannabis retail are permitted as an interim use permit in the following zoning
districts:
         (a)   (C-1) General Commerce District;
         (b)   (C-2) Central Business District;
         (c)   (C/I) Commercial/Industrial District.
      (6)   Cannabis transportation. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed
for transportation are permitted as an interim use permit in the following
zoning districts: (C/I) Commercial/Industrial District.
      (7)   Cannabis delivery. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
delivery are permitted as an interim use permit in the following zoning
districts:
         (a)   (C-1) General Commerce District;
         (b)   (C/I) Commercial/Industrial District.
      (8)   All other uses related to cannabis or hemp. All other uses related
to cannabis or hemp are not permitted until such time as the Planning
Commission and City Council have taken up the matter for consideration.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sales of
cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products according to the following:
      (1)   Monday through Saturday: 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      (2)   Sunday: 10:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
   (D)   Advertising. Cannabis businesses shall follow the city’s sign
regulations contained in
Chapter 152 of this code.
(Ord. 247, passed 11-25-24)
§ 115.04 TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   (A)   License required. A license or permit is required to be issued and
approved by the City of Mayer prior to holding a temporary cannabis event.
   (B)   Registration and application procedure. A registration fee, as
established in the City of Mayer’s fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants
for temporary cannabis events.
   (C)   Application submittal and review.
      (1)   The City of Mayer shall require an application for temporary
cannabis events.
         (a)   An applicant for a temporary cannabis event shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the City of Mayer. Said form shall include,
but is not limited to:
            1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
and
            3.   Address where the temporary cannabis event will be located.
         (b)   The applicant shall include with the form:
            1.   The application fee; and
            2.   A copy of the OCM cannabis event license application,
submitted pursuant to M.S. § 342.39, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to
time.
         (c)   The application for a license for a temporary cannabis event
shall meet the following standards:
            1.   Except for low-potency cannabis edibles, onsite consumption is
prohibited.
            2.   Temporary cannabis events shall only be held between the hours
of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
            3.   Temporary cannabis events are prohibited in residential
districts.
            4.   Temporary cannabis events must comply with the buffer
requirements described in § 115.03(A).
            5.   Temporary cannabis events must comply with all requirements
detailed in M.S. § 342.40, as it may be amended from time to time. The
application shall include a detailed plan addressing the requirements of M.S. §
342.40, subds. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, as they may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   The application shall be submitted to the City Clerk for review. If
the application is incomplete, they shall return the application to the
applicant with the notice of deficiencies.
         (a)   Once an application is considered complete, the city shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the City Council for approval or denial.
         (b)   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
         (c)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that meets the
requirements of this section shall be approved.
         (d)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that does not meet the
requirements of this section shall be denied. The City of Mayer shall notify
the applicant of the standards not met and basis for denial.
(Ord. 247, passed 11-25-24)
§ 115.05 LOCAL GOVERNMENT AS A CANNABIS RETAILER.
   (A)   The City of Mayer may establish, own, and operate one municipal
cannabis retail business subject to the restrictions in this chapter.
   (B)   The municipal cannabis retail store shall not be included in any
limitation of the number of registered cannabis retail businesses.
   (C)   The City of Mayer shall be subject to all of the same rental license
requirements and procedures applicable to all other applicants.
(Ord. 247, passed 11-25-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Firearms; dangerous weapons
   
130.02   Alcohol consumption
   
130.03   Predatory offender residency restrictions
   
130.04   Public use of cannabis and hemp
§ 130.01 FIREARMS; DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS WEAPONS. Any of the following objects:
         (1)   Dagger, dirk or stiletto;
         (2)   Saber or sword;
         (3)   Switchblade knife, spring blade knife or any knife the blade of
which can be opened with one hand by gravity, a flick of the wrist or some type
of mechanism;
         (4)   Blackjack, sand club, sap, sap gloves, pipe club, bludgeon or
mace club;
         (5)   Chain club or chains assembled or used as an assault weapon;
         (6)   Artificial knuckles or other objects designed to be worn over
the fists or knuckles;
         (7)   Throwing devices with cutting or pointed edges;
         (8)   Japanese or other night sticks, nut crackers, nanchuks, chakas,
flails, karate sticks or morning stars;
         (9)   Sling shots;
         (10)   Spears or lances;
         (11)   Bow and arrow, blow gun, splat ball gun or paint gun; and
         (12)   Firearm.
   EXPLOSIVE. An explosive device or incendiary device, as defined in M.S. §
299F.72, as it may be amended from time to time.
   FIREARM. A weapon from which is propelled a missile, projectile or bullet by
means of explosives, gas or compressed air, springs, or elastic materials and
shall include air and “BB” guns.
   MINOR. A person who is less than 18 years old.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An area, building or structure that is open and accessible to
the public.
   REPLICA FIREARM. A device or object that is a facsimile or toy version of,
and reasonably appears to be a pistol, revolver, shotgun, sawed off shotgun,
rifle, machine gun, rocket launcher or any other firearm.
   (B)   Sale to minors. No person shall sell or transfer a dangerous weapon or
explosive to a minor unless the minor's parents or guardian is present at the
time of the sale or transfer and gives the person his or her express written
consent to the proposed transaction.
   (C)   Carrying by intoxicated or influenced persons. No person who is under
the influence of intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance shall carry a
dangerous weapon or explosive upon his or her person or in any vehicle.
   (D)   Possession prohibited.
      (1)   Unless permitted by the Carver County Sheriff, no person shall have
a dangerous weapon or explosive in his or her possession, custody or control in
a public place, in or on private property of another without their permission,
or in a motor vehicle, except in compliance with the following:
         (a)   A dangerous weapon or explosive may be transported by a person
directly to or from his or her place of business, the place of purchase, a gun
dealer, a gunsmith, a place of target practice or his or her home.
         (b)   A dangerous weapon or explosive may be transported only if it
is:
            1.   In a closed and fastened container or securely tied package;
            2.   In the locked trunk of any vehicle which is used or, if the
vehicle does not have a trunk, in the farthest rear portion of the vehicle in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers; and
            3.   Unloaded, disassembled or otherwise rendered incapable of
immediate operation, if possible.
      (2)   The presence of a dangerous weapon or explosive in a passenger
automobile, van, pick-up truck or sport utility vehicle permits the fact finder
to infer knowing possession of the dangerous weapon or explosive by the driver
or person in control of the vehicle when the weapon or explosive was in the
vehicle. The inference does not apply:
         (a)   To a licensed operator of a vehicle who is at the time operating
it for hire in the lawful and proper pursuit of the operator's trade;
         (b)   To any person in the vehicle if one of them legally possesses a
dangerous weapon or explosive; or
         (c)   When the dangerous weapon or explosive is concealed on the
person of one of the occupants.
      (3)   No person shall possess, carry, transport or control any knife or
bladed instrument capable of cutting, stabbing or injuring while on school
property, in a school bus, or on public streets or sidewalks adjacent to a
school, except when knives and bladed instruments are used as part of an
instructional activity carried on in the school, used in the preparation or
consumption of food in a lunchroom or kitchen, or used as a tool by a person
authorized to perform construction, repair or maintenance services on school
property.
   (E)   Use or discharge.
      (1)   No person shall in any public or private place use a dangerous
weapon or explosive or discharge a firearm if the firearm is loaded with
powder, a blank cartridge, explosive, bullet, pellet or shot without first
obtaining a permit from the Carver County Sheriff as set forth in division (F)
below.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (1) shall not apply to:
         (a)   Licensed peace officers and other personnel authorized by the
Carver County Sheriff; and
         (b)   People lawfully acting in the defense of themselves or others.
   (F)   Permit application, granting and revocation.
      (1)   Permit issuance. A person may apply to the Carver County Sheriff
for a permit to possess, use or transport a dangerous weapon or explosive or to
discharge a firearm contrary to the provisions of divisions (D) and (E). An
application for a permit shall be in writing and shall state the reason for
requesting the permit, the period for which permit is desired, the type of
dangerous weapon, explosive or firearm involved, the proposed activity or use,
and any other information that the Carver County Sheriff deems useful to review
the application. The Sheriff shall issue a permit only if he or she determines
that the proposed use is for a lawful purpose and will be carried out in a safe
manner. The Carver County Sheriff may impose conditions to assure the lawful
and safe use of the permit and may specify the firearm, explosive or dangerous
weapon to be used and the times, places and circumstances of use. Permits shall
be usable only by the person to whom issued.
      (2)   Ineligible people. No permit under this section may be issued if
the Carver County Sheriff determines that the applicant is one of the following
categories of people:
         (a)   Those listed in M.S. § 624.713, as it may be amended from time
to time;
         (b)   A person who presently has a court restraining order against
them, issued because of assaultive, aggressive or threatening behavior;
         (c)   A person who is presently on court-ordered probation as the
result of a criminal conviction involving assault or disorderly conduct; or
         (d)   A person who, within the preceding two years, handled a
dangerous weapon, explosive or firearm in a negligent, careless or reckless
manner or in a manner that unreasonably alarms any person.
      (3)   Permit revocation.
         (a)   Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked if the
Carver County Sheriff determines that:
            1.   The terms and conditions of the permit are being or have been
violated;
            2.   Continued use of the permit is or may be a danger to the
public safety or any property;
            3.   The permit holder has used the permit to violate any law or
city ordinance;
            4.   The permit holder falsified any information or omitted
material information in the application; or
            5.   The permit holder is or has become one of the persons listed
in division (2) above.
         (b)   The Carver County Sheriff shall revoke the permit by giving
written notice to the permit holder. The revocation shall be effective upon
delivery of the written notice to the address of the permit holder set forth in
the permit application.
         (c)   Any permit holder aggrieved by a revocation of a permit may
appeal the decision to the Carver County Court.
         (d)   Any permit revoked pursuant to this section shall remain revoked
during the pendency of an appeal.
   (G)   Organized club permit. The Mayer City Council may issue a special
permit to an organized gun club to allow shooting of firearms by members and
their guests on club property. The permit shall not be issued if the proposed
activity would be a safety hazard or a nuisance to surrounding properties. The
City Council may prescribe the hours of operation and types of firearms to be
used.
   (H)   Confiscation. The Carver County Sheriff may confiscate and dispose of
a dangerous weapon or explosive worn, carried, possessed, used or handled in
violation of any ordinance or state statute. The Sheriff may provide for its
sale, destruction or other disposition.
   (I)   Civil liability. Nothing in this section authorizes the use of
dangerous weapons, explosives or firearms in a manner which will endanger a
human being or property, and no permit issued relieves a person from civil
liability from damage resulting from use of the permit.
   (J)   Replica firearms. No person shall display, exhibit, brandish or
otherwise employ a replica of a firearm in a threatening manner if, in doing
so, the person either:
      (1)   Causes or attempts to cause fear in another person; or
      (2)   Acts in reckless disregard of the risk of causing fear in another
person.
(Ord. 91, passed 5-11-98) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   General Licensing Regulations, see
Chapter 110
§ 130.02 ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Public consumption. No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage on
a public street, in a public park or in other public property unless the
consumption and display of the beverage being consumed is lawfully permitted on
the public property, pursuant to applicable provisions.
('82 Code, § 6.111)
   (B)   Alcoholic beverages in unlicensed public places. No person shall
display, mix, prepare for consumption or consume any alcoholic beverage in any
public place or place of business which is not licensed for the display,
consumption, sale or furnishing of set-ups for alcoholic beverage.
('82 Code, § 6.112)
   (C)   Persons under 21 years of age. It is a violation of this code for any
person:
      (1)   Under 21 years of age to misrepresent his or her age for the
purpose of obtaining any alcoholic beverage;
      (2)   To induce a person 21 years of age to purchase or procure any
alcoholic beverage;
      (3)   Other than the parent or legal guardian to procure any alcoholic
beverage for any person under 21 years of age, to sell or give an alcoholic
beverage to any person under 21 years of age;
      (4)   Under 21 years of age to consume any alcoholic beverage unless in
the company of his or her parent or guardian and unless the consumption is
otherwise permitted by law; and
      (5)   Under 21 years of age to possess any alcoholic beverage with intent
to consume the alcoholic beverage at a place other than the household of his or
her parent or guardian. Possession of the alcoholic beverage at a place other
than the household of his or her parent or guardian shall be prima facie
evidence of intent to consume the alcoholic beverage at a place other than the
household of his or her parent or guardian.
('82 Code, § 6.113) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic Beverages, see
Chapter 111
§ 130.03 PREDATORY OFFENDER RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Findings; intent.
      (1)   Repeat predatory offenders present a threat to the public safety of
the community as a whole, especially children. Predatory offenders assigned a
risk level III under the risk assessment scale established by the Minnesota
Commissioner of Corrections are more likely than other classifications of
offenders to use physical violence, to repeat their offenses, to have committed
multiple offenses, to have more victims than are ever reported, and, as a
result, to be prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes. The cost of
predatory offender victimization to society at large, while not precisely
calculable, is steep.
      (2)   As expressed in M.S. § 412.221(32), the city has power to provide
for the prevention of crime, the benefit of residence, and the promotion of
health, safety, order, convenience, and the general welfare, as it deems
necessary and expedient.
      (3)   The city has a compelling interest in promoting, protecting, and
improving the health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens, and
specifically has a compelling interest to protect against the serious threat to
children posed by predatory offenders, including the risk of recidivism and
harm that released sex offenders, assessed at a risk level III due to their
high risk of re-offense, will pose to this community.
      (4)   By this section, the city prohibits certain predatory offenders of
risk level III from establishing temporary or permanent residence in certain
locations where children are known to regularly congregate in concentrated
numbers.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD. Any person under the age of 18.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed by the Minnesota Department of
Human Services, or Carver County, to provide child care, including facilities
having programs for children known as nursery schools, day nurseries, child
care centers, day care centers, cooperative day care centers, and Head Start
programs.
      DESIGNATED OFFENDER. Any person who has been categorized as a level III
predatory offender under M.S. § 244.052, a successor statute, or a similar
statute from another state in which that person’s risk assessment indicates a
high risk of re-offense.
      PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides
for 14 or more consecutive days.
      PUBLIC PARK. A public recreation center or area, created, established,
designated, maintained, provided, or set aside by the city, county, or state,
for the purposes of public rest, recreation, and enjoyment, and all buildings,
facilities, and structures located thereon.
      PUBLIC PLAYGROUND. A city, county, or state-owned public improved outdoor
area designed, equipped, and set aside for children’s play, including a school
building playground, a child care building playground, a play area of a public
park, or an area that contains permanent play equipment open to the public.
      SCHOOL. Any public or nonpublic elementary or secondary school.
      TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides
for a period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and
which is not the person’s permanent residence, or a place where the person
routinely abides, lodges, or resides for a period of four or more consecutive
or non-consecutive days in any month and which is not the person’s permanent
residence.
   (C)   Residence prohibition.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any designated
offender to establish a permanent or temporary residence within 1,000 feet of
any school, public park, or public playground, or child care facility.
      (2)   Measurement of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation required by division (C)(1) above, the requirement shall be
measured by following a straight line from the outer property line of the
permanent or temporary residence of the designated offender to the nearest
outer property line of the school, child care facility, public park, or public
playground.
      (3)   Official map. The City Clerk shall maintain an official map showing
prohibited locations as defined by this section. The Clerk shall update the map
annually to reflect any changes in the location of prohibited zones. The map
shall not be deemed conclusive or all encompassing, or relieve any person
subject to this section from their duty to comply with the prohibitions herein,
since prohibited zones change from time to time.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of the City of Mayer Code of Ordinances. Each day that a designated
offender maintains a permanent or temporary residence in violation of this
section shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Exemptions. A designated offender residing within the prohibited area
as described in division (C) above does not commit a violation of that section
if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The designated offender established the permanent or temporary
residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166
and 243.167 or a successor statute, prior to the effective date of this
section.
      (2)   The designated offender was a minor when he or she committed the
offense and he or she was not convicted as an adult.
      (3)   The designated offender is a minor.
      (4)   The school, public park, or public playground within l,000 feet of
the designated offender’s permanent residence or temporary residence or the
child care facility of the designated offender’s permanent residence or
temporary residence was opened after the designated offender established the
permanent residence or temporary residence and reported and registered the
residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166 and 243.167 or a successor statute.
      (5)   The designated offender’s permanent or temporary residence is also
the primary residence of the designated offender’s parent(s), grandparent(s),
sibling(s), spouse, or child(ren).
      (6)   The designated offender’s permanent or temporary residence is
property purchased, leased, or contracted with and licensed by the Minnesota
Department of Corrections prior to the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 210, passed 9-12-16)
§ 130.04 PUBLIC USE OF CANNABIS AND HEMP.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in
this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
      CANNABIS. Any product containing the harvested flower, bud, leaves, or
stems of a plant of the genus Cannabis that has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis. Cannabis includes adult-
use cannabis flower, medical cannabis flower, and any derivative, concentrate,
extract, resin, or other product made from a cannabis plant.
      ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Includes but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens,
mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor.
      ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering a substance
intended for human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from
the product.
      HEMP. Any product containing the harvested flower, bud, leaves, or stems
of a plant of the genus Cannabis that has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of no more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis. Hemp includes any
derivative, concentrate, extract, resin, or other product made from a hemp
plant.
      PUBLIC PLACE. All city-owned buildings, parks, streets, sidewalks,
alleys, and trails.
      SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product that is intended
for inhalation. SMOKING includes using an electronic delivery device.
   (B)   M.S. § 152.0263, as amended from time to time, allows the use of
cannabis in these places:
      (1)   A private residence including the person's curtilage or yard;
      (2)   Private property not generally accessible by the public unless the
person is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower, cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products on the
property by the owner of the property; and
      (3)   The premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit on-
site consumption.
   (C)   Prohibited activity. No person shall consume cannabis or hemp, in any
form, in a public place.
Ch. 95 of this code shall supersede regarding specific exceptions for public
parks.
   (D)   Penalty. Violation of this section shall be a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 240, passed 10-9-23)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   ZONING
      
153.   EXCAVATION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Minnesota State Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Building Code optional chapters
   
150.03   Application; administration; enforcement
   
150.04   Permits; fees
   
150.05   Perpetual existence
   
150.06   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 MINNESOTA STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Minnesota State Building Code (the “Code”), as adopted by the
Commissioner of Labor and Industry pursuant to M.S. §§ 16B.59 through 16B.75,
including all of the amendments, rules and regulations established, adopted and
published from time to time by the Minnesota Commissioner of Labor and
Industry, through the Building Codes and Standards Unit, is hereby adopted by
reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically
adopted in this chapter. The Minnesota State Building Code is hereby
incorporated in this chapter as completely as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 138, passed 8-13-07)
§ 150.02 BUILDING CODE OPTIONAL CHAPTERS.
   The Minnesota State Building Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§ 16B.59
through 16B.75, allows the city to adopt by reference and enforce certain
optional chapters of the most current edition of the Minnesota State Building
Code. The following optional provisions identified in the most current edition
of the Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as part of the building code
for the City of Mayer: none.
(Ord. 138, passed 8-13-07)
§ 150.03 APPLICATION; ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   The application, administration, and enforcement of the Code shall be in
accordance with the Minnesota State Building Code and Minnesota Rules, Chapter
1300, as it may be amended from time to time. The Code shall be enforced within
the extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 16B.62, Subd. 1, when so
established by this chapter. The Code shall be enforced by a Minnesota
Certified Building Official designated by the City Council to administer this
Code.
(Ord. 138, passed 8-13-07)
§ 150.04 PERMITS; FEES.
   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as authorized in
M.S. § 16B.62, Subd. 1. Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by the
Code in accordance with a fee schedule adopted by the City Council. In
addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work
governed by the Code in accordance with M.S. § 16B.70.
(Ord. 138, passed 8-13-07) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 PERPETUAL EXISTENCE.
   This chapter shall perpetually include the most current edition of the
Minnesota State Building Code with the exception of the optional appendix
chapters. Optional appendix chapters shall not apply unless specifically
adopted.
(Ord. 138, passed 8-13-07)
§ 150.06 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by an order, decision, or determination made by the
Building Official may appeal such order, decision or determination to the State
Appeals Board of the Minnesota Department of Labor and Industry, Construction
Codes and Licensing Division. Such appeal shall be made according to the rules
and regulations of the Appeals Board.
(Ord. 174, passed 10-24-11)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of the Code is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 138, passed 8-13-07)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   151.001   Title
   151.002   Purpose
   151.003   Scope
   151.004   Jurisdiction
   151.005   Compliance
   151.006   Required approvals of subdivision plats
   151.007   Conflict
   151.008   Exceptions
   151.009   Conveyance by metes and bounds
   151.010   Subdivision without central water and sewer
   151.011   Minor subdivisions
   151.012   Resubdivision
   151.013   Exemptions
   151.014   Definitions
Application for Subdivision
   151.025   Application form
   151.026   Signature(s) required
   151.027   Proof of ownership
   151.028   Application fee
   151.029   Cost recovery
   151.030   Preliminary plat procedure
   151.031   Final plat
Preliminary and Final Plat Data Requirements
   151.045   Preliminary plat
   151.046   Final plat
Design Standards
   151.060   General
   151.061   Streets and alleys
   151.062   Easements
   151.063   Blocks
   151.064   Lots
   151.065   Soil erosion and steep slopes
   151.066   Drainage
   151.067   Conservation and preservation of the natural environment
   151.068   Other information
Public Use Dedication or Contribution
   151.080   Authority
   151.081   Dedication of land or payment
   151.082   Amount of dedication or payment
   151.083   Credit for park dedication
   151.084   Special fund
   151.085   City Attorney approval
Required Improvements
   151.095   General
   151.096   Improvements
   151.097   Subdivision agreement
   151.098   Improvements and developer agreements
   151.099   Financing required improvements
Variances and Amendments
   151.110   Procedure
   151.111   Lapse of variance
Fees
   151.125   Base fee
   151.126   Additional costs
   151.127   Payable at time of application; deposit
   151.128   Fee schedule
Enforcement, Notification, and Disclosure
   151.140   Enforcement
   151.141   Notification
 
   151.999   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Fee schedule, see §
36.02
   Zoning, see
Chapter 152
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Ordinance of the City of
Mayer” and will be referred to as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority contained in M.S. § 462.358, as it may be amended
from time to time, this chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To provide for the orderly, economic, and safe development of land and
public services and facilities.
   (B)   To promote the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of
the residents of the city.
   (C)   To assure equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing
uniform procedures.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.003 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter relate to any division of a tract of land
into two or more parcels by platting, re-platting, conveyance, registered land
survey, or other means and to the combination of any two or more such adjoining
parcels.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.004 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations governing plats and the subdivision of land shall apply to
the area within the corporation limits of the City of Mayer. By right of M.S. §
462.358, as it may be amended from time to time, the city can extend its
subdivision rights two miles beyond its boundaries.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.005 COMPLIANCE.
   After the adoption of this chapter, no lot in a subdivision shall be sold,
no permit shall be issued to alter or erect any building upon land in a
subdivision unless a subdivision plat has been approved and recorded unless
exempted under §§
151.008 and
151.013, and until the improvements required by the City Council relative to
subdivision have been constructed or arranged for as provided herein. No
improvements that are proposed to become public or are part of an approved
preliminary plat may be made except by the city within rights-of-way or
easements in approved plats, or pursuant to development agreements which have
been approved by the city.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.006 REQUIRED APPROVALS OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Before any plat shall have validity, it shall have been approved by the
Planning Commission and the City Council and recorded in the Carver County
Recorder’s Office.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.007 CONFLICT.
   It is not intended by this chapter to annul or interfere with any official
regulations or ordinances of the city provided however, that when there is a
difference between minimum standards or dimensions herein and those contained
on other official regulations or ordinances of the city, the highest standards
shall apply.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.008 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   When requesting a subdivision, if either of the two following
conditions exists, the City Clerk shall bring the request to the attention of
the Planning Commission, whereupon, they shall review said request and may
recommend exemption of the subdivision from complying with any procedural
requirements of this chapter deemed inappropriate for adequate review of
subdivision request.
      (1)   In any case in which compliance with § 151.009 will create an
unnecessary hardship and failure to comply does not interfere with the intent
of this chapter, provided that such conveyance does not necessitate the
dedication of a public right-of-way and the newly created parcel will not cause
the other remaining portion of the property to be in violation of this chapter
or the zoning code; or
      (2)   Where written justification is submitted by an applicant, which
clearly indicates that the intent of this chapter can be satisfied without
enforcing all of the procedural requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City
Council by resolution may exempt the conveyance and the conveyance may then be
filed or recorded.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.009 CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   No conveyance of one or more parcels in which the land is described by metes
and bounds or by reference to an unapproved registered land survey made after
the effective date of this chapter shall be filed or recorded except in certain
cases of minor subdivisions as described in § 151.011, and those conveyances
exempted under § 151.013.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.010 SUBDIVISION WITHOUT CENTRAL WATER AND SEWER.
   All proposed subdivisions must have city water and sewer in order to
subdivide.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.011 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In the case of a subdivision resulting in three or less lots, situated
in a neighborhood where conditions are well defined, and no further
resubdivision is expected, the governing body may exempt the subdivider from
complying with some of the requirements of these regulations, after submission
of a survey by a registered land surveyor of the proposed subdivision and the
newly created property lines will not cause any resulting lot to be in
violation of these regulations or the zoning codes.
   (B)   In the case of a request to subdivide a lot which is a part of a
recorded plat or to create not more than three new lots, and the newly created
property lines will not cause any resulting lot to be in violation of these
regulations or the zoning code, the division may be approved by the governing
body, after submission of a survey by a registered land surveyor showing the
original lot and the proposed subdivision. There shall be only minor
subdivision with regard to the original tract in any 12-month period. The
governing body shall have the authority to deny minor subdivisions if it
appears that the intent of these regulations or the zoning code may be
violated. Each parcel must have frontage on a public road.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.012 RESUBDIVISION.
   In the case of a request to divide a lot other than an outlot, which is a
part of a recorded plat where the subdivision is to permit the adding of a
parcel of land to an abutting lot, or to create two lots where the newly
created property line will not cause the remaining portion of any lot to be in
violation with this chapter or the zoning code, the subdivision may be approved
by the City Council after submission of a certified survey or a registered land
survey, as applicable by a registered land surveyor showing the original lot
and the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.013 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following conveyances shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter and shall not constitute a subdivision provided, however, that all such
conveyances shall be subject to city regulations, including this chapter, which
do not interfere with the recording of the deed:
   (A)   The parcel was a separate lot of record prior to the effective date of
this chapter.
   (B)   The parcel was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered
into prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   The parcel is a single parcel of land of not less than five acres and
having a width of not less than 300 feet and its conveyance does not result in
the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels, any one which is
less than five acres in area or 300 feet in width and all parcels have frontage
on a public right-of-way.
   (D)   The parcel relates to a division of a lot which is part of a recorded
plat where the division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to an
abutting lot or to create two lots, and the newly created lot will not cause
the other remaining portion of the lot to be in violation of this chapter or
zoning code.
   (E)   Cemetery lots.
   (F)   Parcels resulting from court orders, or the adjustment of a lot line
by the relocation of a common boundary as the result of a correctional survey
of a previously recorded parcel, or an instrument of conveyance to correct a
faulty description in previously recorded instrument of conveyance.
   (G)   Lot line adjustments.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.014 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is mandatory. Words used in the present tense shall include the future;
and the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the singular.
The masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
   ABUTS. Is next to.
   ALLEY. A public vehicular way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property and which is not intended for general traffic
circulation.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision which is entirely bounded by
streets or by street, rail right-of-way, waterway or exterior boundary of the
subdivision.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line and
the lot line.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING SETBACK. The minimum distance between the building or structure,
excluding entry steps, provided they extend no more than halfway into the
required setback area, and including all decks and attached structures and the
lot line.
   CITY CLERK. The appointed executive of the city, or his or her designee.
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the City of Mayer.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan prepared and adopted by the city
indicating the general locations recommended for major land uses, streets,
parks, public buildings, and other public improvements.
   COUNTY BOARD. The governing body of Carver County.
   CROSSWALK or PEDESTRIAN WAY. The publicly owned right-of-way which crosses a
block and furnishes pedestrian access to adjacent streets or properties.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The standards for design of the subdivision and
preparation of plats as provided herein.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of an area of land by the
public or other entities or individuals for specific purposes including, but
not limited to, construction, location of utilities, drainage ways and
roadways.
   EASEMENT, DRAINAGE. An easement for the purpose of ponding or draining
water.
   EASEMENT, PEDESTRIAN. An easement for the purpose of providing pedestrian
access to a place.
   EASEMENT, UTILITY. An easement for the placement of utilities.
   ENGINEER. The City or County Engineer or a duly authorized consulting
engineer.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision meeting all of the
requirements of the city, this chapter, and in such form as required by the
county for purposes of recording.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in inundation
of the areas adjacent to the channel.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain outside the floodway. FLOOD
FRINGE is synonymous with the term “floodway fringe” used in the Flood
Insurance Rate Maps.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The area adjoining the watercourse which has been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional (100-year) flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
flood plain which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the regional
flood.
   GRADE, PERCENTAGE OF. The rise or fall of a street in feet and tenths of a
foot or each 100 feet or horizontal distance measured at the center line of the
street.
   LOT. The smallest unit of a subdivision individually numbered or designated
on the plat for purposes of descriptions, recording, conveyance, development or
taxation conforming to the zoning and other requirements of the city.
   LOT (OF RECORD). A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described, as of the effective date of this chapter legally described, as of
the effective date of this chapter and recorded as such in the County
Recorder’s Office or approved by the city as a lot subsequent to such date, and
which is occupied by or intended for occupant by one principal building or
principal use together with any accessory buildings or such open spaces as
required by this chapter and having its principal frontage on a street, or a
proposed street approved by the city.
   LOT, CORNER LOT. A lot with a street in front and along one of the sides.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the street right-of-way line
and the opposite rear line of the lot measured in the general direction of the
side lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT, LAKE SHORE. A lot having frontage on a lake shore or other body of
water.
   LOT, LANDLOCKED. A lot without access to a street.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side property lines of a
lot as measured at the minimum setback line.
   MONUMENTS. A metal marker set to mark specific points on a piece of
property.
   OWNER. A person(s), partnership(s), association(s), firm(s), corporation(s),
or combinations thereof, having proprietary interest in the land sought to be
subdivided.
   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Public land and open spaces dedicated or reserved for
recreational purposes.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. Public land and open spaces dedicated or reserved for
recreational purposes.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Mayer.
   PLAT. A map or drawing indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary plat map, drawing or chart indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission
and the city for their consideration as to its compliance with the city’s
ordinances, policies and these regulations, along with required supporting
data.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to
protecting and preserving the physical and economic integrity of any given
area.
   RESERVE STRIP. A purported road way, or strip of land reserved for the use
of a limited number of persons or purposes as distinguished from a publicly
dedicated road.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land dedicated and publicly owned for use as a street, alley,
or crosswalk.
   SCREEN PLANTINGS. Vegetation planted to screen one use from another one.
   SERVICE LANE. A frontage road or marginal access street parallel with and
adjacent to high volume arterial streets and highways, which provides access to
abutting properties and protects through traffic.
   SIDEWALK. A paved pedestrian pathway separated from the roadway by distance
or grade.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue or boulevard.
   STREET, ARTERIAL or MAJOR. A street of considerable continuity, which is
used primarily for heavy through traffic between major traffic generation
areas.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A feeder street which provides connection primarily
between arterial streets or arterial streets and minor streets. COLLECTOR
STREETS include the principal entrance streets of a residential development and
the principal streets for circulation within such development.
   STREET, COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL. A street designed to accommodate
commercial or industrial traffic needs.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A comparatively short minor street having one end open
to traffic and the other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
   STREET EXTENSION. A platted or planned extension of an existing street.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS. A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to a
highway or an arterial street, and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic. Parking shall be prohibited on these
streets.
   STREET, MINOR or LOCAL. A street which serves primarily as access to
abutting properties, and is not intended to carry through traffic.
   STREET, PARTIAL. A street or right-of-way that only partially meets width
requirements. Also referred to as a half street.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A street owned by a private individual or individuals and
not maintained by the city.
   STREET, RIGHT-OF-WAY. A tract of land platted or dedicated for use as a
street. Normally includes both the paved portion of the right-of-way and an
additional portion on either side.
   STREET TREE. A tree planted close to or within the street right-of-way.
   STREET WIDTH. The street right-of-way width, measured at right angle to the
center line of the street.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, trust or legal entity having sufficient ownership interest in the
land sought to be subdivided to commerce and maintain proceedings to subdivide
the same under this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, tracts or parcels for the purpose of transferring ownership or building
development, or if a new street is involved, any division or development of a
parcel of land. The term shall include resubdivision of land.
   TANGENT. A straight line that is perpendicular to the radius of a curve
where it intersects a curve.
   THOROUGHFARE. A highway or expressway, designed for and carrying mainly
through traffic, with limited access.
   VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a street center line located
between lines of different percentage of grade.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
**** APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION ****
§ 151.025 APPLICATION FORM.
   To initiate a subdivision property, the subdivider shall complete an
application form provided by the city and shall include all required
information specified in the application instructions. An incomplete or
inaccurate form need not be accepted by the city.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.026 SIGNATURE(S) REQUIRED.
   The application form must be signed by the subdivider prior to submission to
the city. Any application form not properly signed may be rejected at any time
it is determined that the required signatures are not affixed.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.027 PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   At the time of filing the application form, or at such other time as the
city may permit, the subdivider shall file proof of ownership in a form
acceptable to the city. The city may require proof of ownership including a
current abstract of title or a registered property certificate along with all
applicable unrecorded documents affecting title, and an opinion of title by the
subdivider’s attorney. Failure to file the required proof of ownership shall be
a basis for the city to deny the application or to discontinue processing the
application until such proof of ownership is submitted.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.028 APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   The subdivider shall pay to the city at the time of filing the
application form, the appropriate application fee for each type of subdivision
which shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
An application which is not accompanied by the required application fee is
deemed to be incomplete.
   (B)   The subdivider shall pay to the city at the time of filing the
application form, the appropriate application fee for each type of subdivision
shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City Council. An
application form need not be accepted if the application fee is not paid.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.029 COST RECOVERY.
   It is the intent of the city to recover all expenses incurred in the review
and approval process. The subdivider shall deposit with the city a sum of money
equal to the amount required to defray expenses of the city incurred in the
review and approval process, including, without limitation, engineering, legal
and consulting fees. In the event the original amount deposited is insufficient
to cover expenses, the subdivider shall be notified and shall deposit such
additional sum as the city deems reasonably necessary to cover its expenses. In
the event the actual cost of the review is less than the estimate, the city
shall refund to the subdivider the difference between the actual cost and the
amount of money actually deposited by the subdivider. In no case shall the
application fee, or any part of it be refunded. Failure to make required
deposits shall be grounds for denial of the requested plat.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.030 PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE.
   For those subdivisions requiring a plat as specified herein, the procedure
specified in this section shall be followed:
   (A)   Filing the preliminary plat.
      (1)   The subdivider shall file:
         (a)   Fifteen copies of the applications and preliminary plat with the
city to complete the application;
         (b)   One copy of the application and preliminary plat with the
Minnesota Department of Transportation for review as required by state law if
the proposed subdivision abuts any state or federal truck highway;
         (c)   One copy of the application and preliminary plat with the State
Commissioner of Natural Resources for review as required if the proposed
subdivision includes a protected wetland that is subject to regulation as
shoreland pursuant to the amended from time to time regulating the use of
shoreland;
         (d)   One copy of the application and preliminary plat with the
applicable watershed district as required by state law; and
         (e)   Copies with all utility companies that may be affected.
      (2)   Failure to file any of the copies as required by this division (A)
may constitute a basis for rejection of the application by the city.
   (B)   Review of the preliminary plat. The city, after receipt of the
application, application fee, proof of ownership, and the requisite number of
copies, shall distribute copies of the application and preliminary plat for
review to city officials, staff members and the County Zoning Administrator,
County Surveyor, and if abutting state highways, the Minnesota Department of
Transportation.
   (C)   Reports and recommendations. The city shall prepare a report on plat
applications received.
   (D)   Public hearing. The city on behalf of the Planning Commission, shall
set a date for a public hearing. Notice of the same shall be provided in
accordance with M.S. § 462.358, as it may be amended from time to time. Notice
of hearing shall be given in accordance with state law. The failure to give
mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the notice, shall
not invalidate the proceedings.
   (E)   The Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall consider the
preliminary plat and hold a public hearing at its next available meeting.
   (F)   Approval factors. In reviewing the preliminary plat, the city shall
not approve the application unless the following standards are met:
      (1)   Consistency with the design standards and other requirements of
this chapter;
      (2)   Consistency with the city’s Comprehensive Plan or other development
plans;
      (3)   Consistency with the zoning code;
      (4)   The physical characteristics of the site, including but not limited
to topography erosion, and flooding potential, and soil limitations, are
suitable for the type of development or use contemplated;
      (5)   The proposed subdivision shall not have an adverse fiscal or
environmental impact upon the city or its residents;
      (6)   The subdivision will promote the orderly use and development of
public open space or contribute the same by cash in lieu of land contribution;
      (7)   The proposed subdivision will not have an adverse impact on
environmental resources as defined in M.S. Ch. 116B, as it may be amended from
time to time;
      (8)   The proposed subdivision will not be premature due to lack of
adequate infrastructure to support the proposed subdivision, including, but not
limited to, roadways, utilities, parks, schools, and other public facilities;
      (9)   The proposed subdivision will not result in traffic safety issues
or cause traffic congestion; and
      (10)   The proposed subdivision will not have an adverse impact on the
public health, safety and welfare of the city and its residents.
   (G)   City authority. The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the
authority to request additional information from the applicant concerning the
preliminary plat or to retain expert testimony at the expense of the applicant
concerning said information to be declared necessary to establish compliance
with all pertinent sections of this chapter.
   (H)   Recommendations. Within 60 days from the date of the public hearing,
the Planning Commission shall make a finding of fact and recommendation such
actions or conditions relating to the preliminary plat to the City Council.
   (I)   Planning Commission action. Upon receiving the report and
recommendation of the Planning Commission, or until 60 days after the public
hearing at which the preliminary plat was considered, the City Council shall
place the report and recommendation on the agenda for the next regular meeting.
Such reports and recommendations shall be entered in and made a part of the
permanent written record of the City Council meeting.
   (J)   Council action. Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the
Planning Commission, or the lapse of 60 days without a report and
recommendation, the Council shall consider the application for preliminary plat
approval based on the approval factors listed in division (F) above. The City
Council’s decision on the preliminary plat shall be made by a majority vote of
the City Council.
   (K)   After preliminary plat approval. Upon approval of the preliminary plat
by the City Council, the subdivider shall submit the final plat to the Planning
Commission within one year after said approval, or approval of the preliminary
plat shall be considered void. Prior to the expiration of the preliminary plat
approval, the Planning Commission may extend the approval for an additional
year. The extension shall be in writing specifically designating the expiration
date. The extension shall not be subject to an additional fee, and only one
extension may be granted per preliminary plat.
   (L)   Amending the preliminary plat. A preliminary plat may be amended in
accordance with the same standards and procedures that apply to approval of the
preliminary plats, except the public hearing and fee may be waived by the City
Council in its discretion, if they find the requested amendment to be of a
small and insignificant nature.
   (M)   Phased development. In the case of a subdivision to be developed in
stages, the subdivider may be granted permission to prepare a preliminary plat
for only that portion of the property which he or she proposes to develop at
that time, provided such portion conforms with all the requirements of these
regulations. The subdivider may be required, as a condition of approval, to
submit an estimated time schedule for further staging of the development and
its platting.
   (N)   Compliance with law. All plats shall comply with the provisions of
Minnesota State Statutes and the requirements of the chapter.
   (O)   Improvements. Required improvements shall conform to approved
engineering standards established by the City Engineering or any applicable
state, county, regulatory agency, and be in compliance with these regulations.
No required improvements may be made by the subdivider until such time as the
final plat has been approved and a development agreement has been approved and
executed by the City Council.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.031 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Filing the final plat.
      (1)   The subdivider shall file:
         (a)   Fifteen copies of the applications and final plat with the city
to complete the application;
         (b)   One copy of the application and final plat with the Minnesota
Department of Transportation for review as required by state law if the
proposed subdivision abuts any state or federal truck highway;
         (c)   One copy of the application and final plat with the State
Commissioner of Natural Resources for review as required if the proposed
subdivision includes a protected wetland that is subject to regulation as
shoreland pursuant to the amended from time to time regulating the use of
shoreland;
         (d)   One copy of the application and final plat with the applicable
watershed district as required by state law; and
         (e)   Copies with all utility companies that may be affected.
      (2)   Failure to file any of the copies as required by this section may
constitute a basis for rejection of the application by the city.
   (B)   Reports and recommendations. Fifteen copies of the application and
final plat with the city to complete the application and receipt of the
application, application fee, proof of ownership, and the requisite number of
copies, shall on a timely basis, distribute copies of the application and final
plat for review, comment, and recommendation as follows: The city shall advise
the Planning Commission of any reports or comments that have been received
about the final plat.
   (C)   The city shall refer said application and final plat to the Planning
Commission for consideration at least seven days before the next regular
meeting.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall consider the final plat at its next
available meeting. The Planning Commission shall consider the final plat and
hold a public hearing at its next regular meeting unless the filing date fails
within 20 working days of said meeting, in which case the final plat would be
placed on the agenda and considered at the regular meeting following the next
regular meeting. The City Clerk shall refer said application, along with all
related information to the Planning Commission for consideration. The applicant
or a representative thereof shall appear before the Planning Commission in
order to answer questions concerning the final plat.
   (E)   Recommendations. The Planning Commission shall review the final plat
to assure consistency with the approved preliminary plat. The Planning
Commission shall make a recommendation for approval or disapproval with
conditions and reasons thereof to the City Council. In case the plat is
disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified in writing of the reason of such
disapproval and what recommendations are necessary to meet the approval of the
Commission.
   (F)   Council action. The final plat, together with the recommendation of
the Planning Commission shall be submitted to the City Council at its available
meeting.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
**** PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT DATA REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 151.045 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The owner or subdivider shall prepare and submit a preliminary plat,
containing the following information:
   (A)   Identification and description.
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision, not similar to any existing
subdivision;
      (2)   Date and north point;
      (3)   Scale of plat, not less than one inch to 200 feet. The plat shall
utilize a bar scale (standard engineer scale);
      (4)   Indication of any proposed covenants;
      (5)   Location of map indicating location of proposed subdivision in
relationship to general known area;
      (6)   Names and addresses of the subdivider and surveyor making plat and
property owners of record within 350 feet of the proposed subdivision;
      (7)   Legal description of proposed subdivision; and
      (8)   An abstract of title or a title insurance policy with the city as
the named insured in an amount to be determined by the city.
   (B)   Existing conditions and proposed design features.
      (1)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision to such a degree of accuracy
that no major changes are necessary in preparing the plat;
      (2)   Zoning of land within and abutting the subdivision within 300 feet;
      (3)   Layout dimensions and acreage of proposed lots and blocks;
      (4)   Name, location and right-of-way width of existing or proposed
streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, and pedestrian ways;
      (5)   High water mark of all lakes, rivers, streams and wetlands;
      (6)   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed public sewer and
water systems;
      (7)   Boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land within
350 feet, identifying by name and ownership;
      (8)   Proposed zoning changes, if necessary;
      (9)   Minimum front, side, and rear yard setbacks as required by the
zoning code;
      (10)   Location, dimensions, sizes of areas, other than streets, alleys,
pedestrian ways, and utility easements, proposed to be dedicated or reserved
for public uses; and
      (11)   Existing topography, including contour lines at two-foot
intervals. Water courses, wetlands, rock outcrops, power transmission poles and
lines, and other significant features shall also be shown. United States
Geological Survey (U.S.G.S.) data may be used for all topographic mapping where
feasible.
   (C)   Required preliminary plat submittal information.
      (1)   Location of existing natural features, including: tree lines,
wetlands, water bodies, drainage channels, bluffs, etc.;
      (2)   Existing and proposed contour information (two-foot minimum
resolution) for the proposed tract;
      (3)   Any FEMA-identified 100-year flood plain boundary within the site;
      (4)   Location of existing stormwater conveyance mechanisms within the
site boundaries, including: pipes, manholes, catch basins, ditches, streams,
ponds, etc.;
      (5)   Proposed utilities (sanitary sewer, watermain and drainage system),
including: site grading, storm sewer and catch basin location, pond or
bioretention area locations, any other storm water- related items; pond normal
water level and high water levels, emergency overflow locations and elevations,
proposed low opening and low floor elevations;
      (6)   Proposed lot, right-of-way and easement lines;
      (7)   Hydrologic drainage calculations verifying proposed system is in
compliance with Mayer’s Storm Water Management Plan (SWMP) in its latest
revised form (see Section 5.A);
      (8)   Watershed maps indicating existing and proposed watershed
boundaries and drainage directions. Maps shall clearly identify any node
identifications associated with modeling;
      (9)   Two-foot contour information (minimum) for 200 feet around the
boundary of the proposed tract, plus any additional offsite area contributing
runoff to/through the proposed site (ten-foot contour information may be
acceptable for the offsite watershed areas at the discretion of the City
Engineer);
      (10)   The downstream flowpath (that is, downstream of the ultimate
discharge point(s) from the site) shall be evaluated to ensure no adverse
impacts will be a direct result of the proposed site work. This may include
evaluation of erosion potential, as well as the increased potential of standing
water in landlocked areas due to higher volumes of runoff from the proposed
site;
      (11)   Evidence that filling of the 100-year flood plain will not
increase the flood level high water elevation;
      (12)   If applicable, LGU-approved wetland delineation; and
      (13)   Evidence that a development review team (DRT) meeting has been
held between the applicant, city, City Engineer and County Planning. This item
may be waived at city discretion.
   (D)   Supplementary information. No required improvements may be made by the
subdivider until such time as the final plat has been approved and a
development agreement has been approved and executed by the City Council.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05; Am. Ord. 144, passed 5-12-08)
§ 151.046 FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat shall be prepared in accordance with provisions of Minnesota
State Statutes and shall include as a minimum the following information:
   (A)   Name of subdivision;
   (B)   Scale, north arrow, and date of plat;
   (C)   All plats shall be or either two standard sizes measuring 20 by 20 or
30 by 40 inches from outer edge to outer edge. A border line shall be placed
one-half inch inside the outer edges of the plat on the top, bottom, and right-
hand side of the plat, and two inches inside the outer edge of the left-hand
side of the plat;
   (D)   Durable iron monuments shall be set at angle and curve points on the
outside boundary lines of the plat, at all block corners, and at all
intermediate points on the block lines indicating changes of direction in the
lines. The outside boundary lines of the plat shall be correctly designated
showing bearings on all straight lines, angles at all angle points, and central
angle and radii and are length for all curves. All distances shall be shown
between monuments as measured to the nearest hundredths of a foot. If a curved
line constitutes the line of more than one lot in any lot in any block, the
central angle for that part of each lot on the curved line shall be shown. The
outside boundary lines shall close by latitude and departure with an error not
to exceed one foot in 7,500 feet;
   (E)   In any instance where a river, stream, creek, lake, or pond
constitutes a boundary line within bearings or angles and distances between all
angle points and their relationship to a water line, and all distances measured
on the survey line between lot lines shall be shown. The survey line shall be
shown as a dashed line;
   (F)   Locations, dimensions, and name or number of all existing or proposed
lots, blocks, streets,
highways, alleys, parks, and public lands;
   (G)   All rivers, streams, creeks, lakes, ponds, swamps, and wetlands shall
be correctly located and designated;
   (H)   Name and boundary lines of any adjoining platted lands;
   (I)   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated;
   (J)   A written instrument of dedication signed and acknowledged by the
owner of the land including a full and accurate description of the land platted
and set forth what part of the land is dedicated and also to whom, and for what
purpose these parts are dedicated;
   (K)   A written surveyor’s certificate certifying that the plat is a correct
representation of the survey, that all distances are correctly shown on the
plat, that all monuments have been correctly placed in the ground as shown, and
that all outside boundary lines are correctly designated on the plat. If there
are no wetlands, streets or highways to be designated, he or she shall so
state. The certificate shall be sworn to before any officer authorized to
administer an oath;
   (L)   Delinquent tax certification as follows:
         No delinquent taxes and transfer entered this ____ day of ___________,
20___.
   (M)   Certification of city approval as follows:
         Approved by the City of Mayer, Minnesota this ____ day of ___________,
20___.
               Signed:
         Mayor
         Attested:
         City Clerk
   (N)   Any additional certification as required by Minnesota State Statutes;
and
   (O)   Required final plat submittal drainage information. These requirements
are in addition to the requirements of the preliminary plat submittal and are
meant to verify compliance with the city’s Storm Water Management Plan (SWMP).
      (1)   Detailed construction plans indicating street and utility layout
and all drainage improvements, including, but not limited to: storm sewer pipe
location, size and class; final grading; pond areas with reinforced overflow
locations and elevations; bioretention or other storm water-related items;
storm structure schedule;
      (2)   Crossings with other existing or proposed utilities shall be
clearly shown on the plans to avoid potential conflicts;
      (3)   Storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) and all erosion
control necessary to meet city, county and NPDES requirements;
      (4)   Construction details for all storm water-related items;
      (5)   Wetland delineation and mitigation areas;
      (6)   Hydrologic calculations for final design/layout, including all
output and mapping included for the preliminary plat submittal;
      (7)   Hydraulic pipe calculations for all proposed storm sewer using the
rational method, including verification that the system is designed for gravity
flow during the ten-year-rainfall-intensity event;
      (8)   Hydraulic gutter spread calculations verifying adequate catch basin
spacing. Assuming a maximum low-point inlet capacity of three cfs (on-grade
capacity less to a varying degree) spread shall be limited to 66% of the
driving lane on residential streets (28 feet to 36 feet curb-face to curb-
face); and
      (9)   If applicable, verification of LGU-approved wetland mitigation
plan.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05; Am. Ord. 144, passed 5-8-12)
**** DESIGN STANDARDS ****
§ 151.060 GENERAL.
   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan and zoning
code. The design features are minimum requirements. The city may impose
additional or more stringent requirements concerning lot size, streets and
overall design as deemed appropriate considering the property being subdivided.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.061 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Street right-of-way widths shall be consistent with the City of Mayer
standard detail plates, adopted by the city.
   (B)   Street right-of-way widths shall be consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan and official map, and shall conform to county and state standards for
truck highways. If no such plan or standards are applicable, right-of-way
widths shall not be less than the following:
Street Classifications        Right-of-way Width (feet) Pavement Width (feet)
Minor arterial                100                       36 to 44
Collector                     80                        36
Local street
   Rural residential       60                        24
   Urban residential       60                        28 to 32
   Commercial/industry     60                        36
Cul-de-sac, turnaround radius
   Urban residential       60                        36
   Rural residential       60                        42
   Commercial/industry     60                        48
 
 
   (C)   Insofar as practical, streets shall intersect at right angles. In no
case shall the angle formed by the intersection of two streets be less than 80
degrees. Intersections having more than four corners are prohibited.
   (D)   A tangent of at least 300 feet shall be introduced between reverse
curves on arterial and collector streets.
   (E)   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at one point by
more than ten degrees they shall be connected by a curve with a radius adequate
to ensure a sight distance within the right-of-way of not less than 500 feet
for arterial, 300 feet for collectors, and 100 feet for all other streets.
   (F)   Proper design shall consider required turning radius of vehicles for
access points or entrances to and from a highway using standards adopted by the
State Department of Transportation.
   (G)   All centerline grades shall be at least 0.5% and shall not exceed 5%,
for arterial and 7% for all other streets and alleys. Whenever possible, grades
within 30 feet of intersections or railroad crossings shall not exceed 3%.
   (H)   Different connecting street grades shall be connected with vertical
curves. Minimum length, in feet, of the vertical curves shall be 20 times the
algebraic difference in the percentage of grade of the two adjacent slopes.
   (I)   Local streets shall have a centerline offset of not less than 300
feet. Offset intersections shall be avoided.
   (J)   The alignment of local streets shall discourage through traffic.
   (K)   The maximum length of a street terminating in a cul-de-sac shall be
500 feet.
   (L)   Where the proposed subdivision is adjacent to a limited access
highway, arterial or collector street, there shall be no direct vehicular or
pedestrian access from individual lots to such highways or streets. To the
extent feasible access to arterial streets shall be at intervals of not less
than one-fourth mile and through existing and established crossroads. Access
along collector streets will be restricted and controlled on the final plat.
   (M)   Half streets shall be prohibited.
   (N)   Up to four lots may be served by a private driveway if the city finds
the following conditions to exist:
      (1)   The prevailing development pattern makes it infeasible or
inappropriate to construct a public street. In making this determination the
city may consider the location of existing property lines and homes, local or
geographic conditions and the existence of wetlands.
      (2)   After reviewing the surrounding area it is concluded that an
extension of the public street system is not required to serve other parcels in
the area, improve access, or to provide a street system consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan.
      (3)   The use of a private driveway will permit enhanced protection of
wetlands and mature trees.
   (O)   If the use of the private driveway is to be allowed, they shall meet
all standards for the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code and shall be subject to the
following standards:
      (1)   Common section of private driveways serving two or more homes must
be built to a seven-ton design, paved to a width of 20 feet, utilize a maximum
grade of 10%, and provide a turnaround area acceptable to the Fire Marshal
based upon guidelines provided by applicable fire codes. Plans for the driveway
shall be submitted to the City Engineer. Upon completion of the driveway, the
applicant shall be required to submit a set of “as-built” plans signed by a
registered civil engineer.
      (2)   Private driveways must be maintained in good condition and plowed
within 72 hours of a snowfall greater than two inches. Covenants concerning
maintenance shall be filed against all benefiting properties. Parking on the
driveway or otherwise blocking all or part of the driveway shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Private driveways that are not usable by emergency vehicles because
of obstructions, snow accumulation, or poor maintenance are a public safety
hazard. The city may remedy such conditions and assess the cost back to the
property pursuant to M.S. § 429.101, subd. 1(C), as it may be amended from time
to time.
      (4)   The driveway must be provided with drainage improvements determined
to be necessary by the City Engineer.
      (5)   Street addresses or city-approved street name sign, if required,
must be posted at the point where the private driveway intersects the public
right-of-way.
      (6)   The driveway shall be designed to minimize impacts upon adjoining
parcels. The city may require revised alignment and landscaping to minimize
impact.
      (7)   The driveway must be located within a strip property at least 30
feet wide extending out to the public right-of-way or covered by a 30-foot-wide
easement that is permanently recorded over all benefited and impacted parcels.
      (8)   Private reserve strips controlling public access to streets shall
be prohibited.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.062 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   All easements shall be dedicated by appropriate language on the final
plat in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Easements at least ten feet wide along all street right-of-way lines,
five feet along both sides of rear and side lot lines, shall be provided for
utilities where necessary. If appropriate, easements of lesser or greater width
may be required by the city. All utility easements shall have continuity of
alignment from block to block.
   (C)   Easements shall be provided along each side of the centerline of any
water course or drainage channel, to a width sufficient to provide proper
maintenance and protection and to provide for storm water runoff from a 100-
year storm of 24 hours’ duration. Where necessary, drainage easements
corresponding to lot lines shall be provided, such easements for drainage
purposes shall not be less than 20 feet in width.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.063 BLOCKS.
   The length and width of blocks shall be sufficient to provide convenient and
safe access, circulation, control, and street design. Blocks shall not be
longer than 1,200 feet, or shorter than 300 feet except where topography of
surrounding development limits ability to strictly comply or as specifically
approved by the City Council to foster innovative design consistent with sound
planning principles.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.064 LOTS.
   (A)   All lots shall abut for their full required minimum frontage on a
publicly dedicated street as required by the zoning code or on a private drive.
Minimum frontage shall be 50% of the required lot width under the zoning code.
   (B)   Side lines of lots shall be substantially at right angles to straight
street lines or substantially radial to curved street lines.
   (C)   Lots shall be graded to drain away from building locations.
   (D)   Lots shall be placed to preserve natural amenities, such as
vegetation, wetlands, steep slopes, water courses and historic areas.
   (E)   Lot remnants, spite strips, reserve strips, and unusable outlots or
parcels are prohibited.
   (F)   Streets for the proposed subdivision shall extend to the boundaries of
the plat as to provide access to adjoining parcels.
   (G)   Double frontage lots with frontage of two parallel streets or reverse
frontage shall have an additional depth of at least ten feet to accommodate
vegetative screening along the back lot line. Whenever possible, structures on
double frontage lots should face the front of existing structures across the
street. If it cannot be achieved, then such lots shall have an additional depth
of ten feet to accommodate vegetation screening along the back lot line.
   (H)   Lot layouts should take into consideration the potential use of solar
design features.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.065 SOIL EROSION AND STEEP SLOPES.
   (A)   The development shall conform to the topography and soils to create
the least potential for soil erosion.
   (B)   The smallest practical increment of land shall be exposed at any one
time during development.
   (C)   Detailed requirements for each plat shall be set forth in the
development agreement.
   (D)   Erosion and sediment control plans shall be submitted, approved and
implemented prior to the first stage of development and construction. The
requirements of the City of Mayer Storm Water Management Plan (Section 5.C)
shall be adhered to. The developer must comply with all state and county
requirements for erosion control, including any required NPDES permits in
compliance with Carver County regulations. The subdivision must include plans
which will minimize soil erosion.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05; Am. Ord. 144, passed 5-12-08)
§ 151.066 DRAINAGE.
   The natural drainage system shall be used to the maximum extent feasible for
the storage and flow of runoff. The requirements of the City of Mayer Storm
Water Management Plan (Section 5.A) shall be adhered to. The following
requirements shall also apply:
   (A)   Proposed drainage facilities shall have adequate capacity to
accommodate potential runoff from their entire upstream drainage area, whether
within or without the subdivision. The effect of the subdivision on existing
downstream drainage areas outside the subdivision shall be considered in
evaluating the adequacy of the Storm Water Management Plan.
   (B)   The drainage system shall be constructed and operational as part of
the first stage of development and construction.
   (C)   Detailed requirements for each plat shall be set forth in the
development contract.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05; Am. Ord. 144, passed 5-12-08)
§ 151.067 CONSERVATION AND PRESERVATION OF THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   The subdivision shall be designed in accordance with all applicable
shoreland and floodplain regulations and all wetland activities shall conform
to the Wetland Conservation Act. All subdivisions are required to retain and
maintain the features of the natural environment as much as possible through
such measures as the preservation of native trees, shrubs, and grasses;
existing undisturbed land forms; and wetlands, lakes, rivers, and natural
ponding areas.
   (B)   The city shall require measures to preserve or to mitigate impacts
upon sensitive natural features and water quality, and to the compliance, where
applicable, with the requirements of shoreland and floodplain areas. The city
shall consider the degree to which a maximum reasonable effort has been
demonstrated to preserve and conserve the natural features, including
mitigation measures, and the degree to which minimum adverse impact upon the
natural environment will be realized as a result of the proposed development.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05; Am. Ord. 144, passed 5-12-08; Am. Ord. 145, passed
5-12-08)
§ 151.068 OTHER INFORMATION.
   Current applicable design standards shall be as set forth from time to time
by resolution of the City Council. Other information as required from time to
time by the city will be submitted by the applicant.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
**** PUBLIC USE DEDICATION OR CONTRIBUTION ****
§ 151.080 AUTHORITY.
   In accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 462.358, as it may be amended
from time to time, the subdivider shall dedicate, to the public, lands for
highway rights-of-way, street rights-of-way, utility easements, wetland
easements, and similar lands required for perpetual and public improvements.
(Ord. 145, passed 5-12-08)
§ 151.081 DEDICATION OF LAND OR PAYMENT.
   The City of Mayer finds it in the public interest and necessary to provide
future parks, trails, and other public open and recreational spaces for the
citizens of Mayer. As such, for every new subdivision of land involving three
or more lots which are to be developed for residential purposes, the City
Council, with the recommendation of the Planning Commission, shall require a
payment or dedication to the city of any one of the following, the details of
which shall be reviewed on an annual basis at the beginning of each calendar
year:
   (A)   A reasonable portion of a land dedication for conservation purposes or
for public use as parks, recreational facilities, playgrounds, trails,
wetlands, or open space, up to 0.016 acres per resident expected in the
proposed development, using the most recent average household size as
determined by the Minnesota State Demographer’s Office and the U.S. Census
Bureau;
   (B)   A payment of up to $400 per expected resident in the proposed
subdivision, using the most recent average household size as determined by the
Minnesota State Demographer’s Office and the U.S. Census Bureau; or
   (C)   A combination of land dedication and cash payment to the city for
parks and open space purposes that reflects the values contained herein and in
the city’s Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
(Ord. 145, passed 5-12-08)
§ 151.082 AMOUNT OF DEDICATION OR PAYMENT.
   The amount of land and/or payment shall be set by the City Council, from the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, after taking into consideration the
open space, park, recreational, or common areas facilities which the applicant
proposes to reserve for public use within the subdivision. If the area of the
proposed subdivision contains land that has been officially designated as park
or open space in the city’s Comprehensive Plan, the subdivider shall dedicate
the designated land for those purposes. In all cases, the following factors
shall be taken into consideration when reviewing potential lands for park
dedication:
   (A)   The suitability of the land for its intended purpose;
   (B)   The future needs of the community regarding parks, trails, and open
spaces;
   (C)   The amount of any fees imposed, consistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in this subchapter;
   (D)   Whether the land is adjacent to or near other public recreation lands;
   (E)   Whether there is an opportunity to extend an existing or proposed
trail or to enlarge an existing or proposed park or recreational facility;
   (F)   Whether the land dedication would protect environmentally or
historically significant or sensitive sites; and
   (G)   Whether the land dedication provides a unique public benefit or
contains unique natural features.
(Ord. 145, passed 5-12-08)
§ 151.083 CREDIT FOR PARK DEDICATION.
   Where private open space for park or recreation purposes is provided in a
proposed subdivision and such space is to be privately owned and maintained by
the future residents of the subdivision or owners of the development, the
Planning Commission may consider granting a credit for park dedication. A
credit of up to 2.5% of the buildable area of the proposed open space may be
given provided that the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The land area designated as open space and used in the calculation of
the 2.5% credit shall not include any area that is otherwise considered
unbuildable, including, but not limited to, wetlands, steep slopes exceeding
12%, and the area within setbacks from property lines, required buffer zones,
bluffs, and the ordinary high water mark, among others.
   (B)   The land area designated as open space within the development is not
occupied by non-recreational buildings, such as maintenance or caretaking
buildings, and is available for use to all residents of the proposed
subdivision.
   (C)   The use of the private open space is restricted for park and
recreational purposes by recorded covenants which run with the land in favor of
the future owners of the property within the development and which cannot be
defeated or eliminated without the consent of the City of Mayer.
   (D)   The area required to obtain increased densities shall not be included
in the computation of such private open space.
(Ord. 145, passed 5-12-08)
§ 151.084 SPECIAL FUND.
   Funds received by the city, in lieu of land dedication, shall be placed in a
special fund in accordance with M.S. § 462.358, subd. 2b, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 145, passed 5-12-08)
§ 151.085 CITY ATTORNEY APPROVAL.
   All land dedication pursuant to this subchapter shall be conveyed to the
city through a means approved by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 145, passed 5-12-08)
**** REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS ****
§ 151.095 GENERAL.
   The following improvements shall be compiled with and provided in accordance
with city standards and approval and as provided within the plat agreement as
indicated in § 151.097.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.096 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All improvements identified below and as included within the
subdivision agreement shall be installed at the expense of the subdivider
through either a development agreement, or agreement for the city to install
and specially assess the property, at the discretion of the city, according to
standards and specifications approved by the City Council:
      (1)   The full width of all street rights-of-way and utility easements as
approved on the final plat will be finished at rough grade, i.e., no more than
six inches from the finished grade.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer, water and drainage facilities, and electric,
telephone and gas service lines shall be installed as required in the
subdivision agreement. All new subdivisions shall be required to connect to the
public sewer and water system.
      (3)   All road pavement, shoulders, drainage improvements and structures,
curbs, turnarounds, and sidewalks shall conform to all construction standards
and specifications adopted by the Planning Commission, City Engineer or City
Council, and shall be incorporated into construction plans required to be
submitted by the developer for plat approval.
      (4)   Street signs and street lights will be installed as required by the
subdivision agreement.
      (5)   As required by the city, street trees and boulevard sodding shall
be planted and sidewalks shall be installed.
      (6)   Other miscellaneous facilities as may be required by the city shall
be installed.
   (B)   Where feasible, all utility service lines shall be placed underground
within easements or dedicated rights-of-way. All drainage and other utility
installations which traverse privately owned property shall be protected by
proper easements and/or legal agreements.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05; Am. Ord. 145, passed 5-12-08)
§ 151.097 SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT.
   Prior to approval of the final plat by the City Council, the owner or
subdivider of the land covered by the plat shall execute and submit to the
Council an agreement, acceptable to the Council, binding on the owner or
subdivider and the owner’s or subdivider’s heirs, successors or assigns, which
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   (A)   A listing or schedule of when and what improvements shall be required
as recommended by the Planning Commission and approved by the City Council;
   (B)   A provision containing all conditions, if any, imposed by the City
Council upon approval of the final plat;
   (C)   A provision requiring financial sureties to be provided by the city
for the installation and/or financing of improvements required in the
subdivision;
   (D)   A provision requiring the payment of all city fees, consulting fees,
and expenses, including without limitation, outside legal fees, engineering and
planning fees;
   (E)   Other obligations of the subdivider with respect to the development of
the property contained in this or other city ordinances;
   (F)   Provisions assuring timely payment of all fees, including all park
dedication and other fees required by this chapter and other regulations of the
city; and
   (G)   Said agreement shall be reviewed and approved by the City Attorney
prior to review and approval by the City Council.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05; Am. Ord. 145, passed 5-12-08)
§ 151.098 IMPROVEMENTS AND DEVELOPER AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   A developer agreement shall be required for any project which involves
redevelopment in the Central Business District (C-2) and/or requires the
construction of public improvements, including without limitation roads,
municipal sewer services, municipal water services, and lighting.
   (B)   Prior to approval of and issuance of a building permit, the applicant
shall provide for the construction of the required improvements at the
applicant’s expense and shall enter into a developer agreement with the city,
providing a letter of credit to the city in an amount equal to at least 125% of
the estimated cost of the uncompleted improvements. The security shall be
released by the city upon the satisfactory completion of the required
improvements.
   (C)   All costs of the City Engineer, City Attorney, City Planner, financial
experts, consultants, city staff and other professional costs borne by the city
in writing and/or executing the developer agreement, estimates of costs,
inspectors, financial arrangements, assessments, and pursuing legal remedies in
the event of default by the applicant, shall be borne by the applicant or
applicant’s successors.
   (D)   The developer agreement shall be reviewed by the City Attorney and
approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 145, passed 5-12-08)
§ 151.099 FINANCING REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the final plat approval and included within the subdivision
agreement, the owner or subdivider shall submit the City Council for approval
an alternative to be utilized in the financing of the required improvements.
Such alternative shall be limited to a combination of the following:
      (1)   Cash deposit, cash escrow agreement, or performance bond, with
sureties satisfactory to the city submitted to the City Clerk for a city-
determined percentage of the estimated cost of such improvements.
      (2)   An agreement binding on his, her or their heirs including a
provision that no private construction will be made, nor no building permit
shall be filed for such construction, nor any property sold or conveyed until
all improvements required have been completed in a manner approved and
inspected by the city.
      (3)   Improvements within the subdivision which have been completed prior
to final plat approval shall be accepted as equivalent improvements in
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter, but only if the
improvements conform to applicable state and city standards.
   (B)   Improvement costs shall include all construction costs incurred in
making such improvements, all expense incurred by the city for engineering,
planning and legal fees, and all other expenses in connection with the making
of such improvements.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
**** VARIANCES AND AMENDMENTS ****
§ 151.110 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application form. To request a variance, the requestor shall complete
an application form provided by the city and shall include all required
information specified in the application instructions. An incomplete or
inaccurate application form need not be accepted by the city.
   (B)   Public hearing. The city, on behalf of the Planning Commission, shall
set a date for a public hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be published in
the official newspaper of the municipality at least ten days prior to the date
of the meeting. In the requests for variances, such notice shall also be mailed
not less than ten days to all property owners of record within 350 feet of the
property to which the request relates, and if the variances related to land
located in a Shoreland or Flood Plain District, said notice shall also be
mailed to the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources at least ten
days prior to such hearings. A copy of the notice and a certified list of the
property owners and addresses to which the notice was sent shall be supplied by
the applicant or at their expense and made a part of the official record. The
failure to give mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the
notice shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to
comply with this section has been made.
   (C)   The city shall refer said application, along with a staff report and
other related information, to the Planning Commission for consideration.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall consider the request and hold a public
hearing at its next regular meeting unless the filing date falls within 20 days
of said meeting, in which case the request would be placed on the agenda and
considered at the regular meeting following the next regular meeting. The city
shall refer said application, along with all related information to the City
Planning Commission for consideration. The applicant or a representative
thereof shall appear before the Planning Commission in order to answer
questions concerning the proposed amendment or conditional use.
   (E)   Approval factors. In request for variances, the Planning Commission
may recommend a variance from the provisions of this chapter when, in its
opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance. In recommending any
variance, the Commission shall prescribe only conditions that it deems
necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In making its
recommendations, the Planning Commission shall take into account the nature of
the proposed use of land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, and the
number of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision, upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity. A variance shall only be recommended when the
Planning Commission finds:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of their land.
      (2)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which the
property is situated.
      (3)   That the variance is to correct inequities resulting from an
extreme physical hardship such as topography, soils, wetlands, etc.
   (F)   Recommendations. Within 60 days from the date of the public hearing,
the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation, and in requests for
variances shall also make a finding of fact to the City Council.
   (G)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, or until
60 days after the public hearing at which the request was considered, the City
Council shall place the report and recommendation on the agenda for the next
regular meeting. Such reports and recommendations shall be entered in and made
part of the permanent written record of the City Council meeting.
   (H)   Council action.
      (1)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the
City Council shall either:
         (a)   Approve or disapprove the request as recommended by the Planning
Commission;
         (b)   Approve or disapprove the recommendation of the Planning
Commission with modifications, alterations, or differing conditions. Such
modifications, alterations, or differing conditions shall be in writing and
made of the Council’s record; or
         (c)   Refer the recommendation back to the Planning Commission with
future consideration. This procedure shall be followed only one time on a
singular action.
      (2)   Approval of a request shall require passage by two-thirds vote of
the full City Council. The City Clerk shall notify the applicant, in writing,
of the Council’s action. The variance decisions of the City Council shall be
final, subject to the judicial review.
   (I)   DNR requirements. Variance decisions affecting all or part of any land
located within the “5” Shoreland District or “FP” Flood Plain District shall be
mailed to the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources
within ten days of the decision.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.111 LAPSE OF VARIANCE.
   Whenever within one year after granting a variance the work as permitted by
the variance shall not have been completed, then such variance shall become
null and void unless a petition for extension of time in which to complete the
terms has been granted by the City Council. Such extension shall be requested
in writing and filed with the City Clerk at least 30 days before the expiration
of the original variance. There shall be no charge for the filing of such
petition. The request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith
attempt to complete the work permitted by the variance. Such petition shall be
presented to the Planning Commission for a recommendation and to the City
Council for a decision, and shall be made only one time for singular action.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
**** FEES ****
§ 151.125 BASE FEE.
   To defray the administrative costs of processing requests for applications
under this chapter a base fee shall be paid by all applicants, in accordance
with a fee schedule adopted by resolution periodically by the City Council.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.126 ADDITIONAL COSTS.
   In order to defray the additional cost of processing amendments for
development, all applicants shall pay the total cost of staff and/or consulting
time exclusively in producing materials for the applicants request, and all
materials for said request.
   (A)   “Materials” shall include, but not be limited to, maps, graphs,
charts, drawings, etc., and all printing or reproduction of them.
   (B)   “Staff and/or consulting time” shall include any time spent in either
researching for or actual production of materials.
   (C)   The hourly rate for “staff and/or consulting time” shall be
established and made available to the applicant by the City Clerk prior to
production of any materials and the applicant shall be given a reasonable
estimate of project time and/or materials costs.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.127 PAYABLE AT TIME OF APPLICATION; DEPOSIT.
   Fees shall be payable at the time applications are filed with the City Clerk
and are not refundable unless application is withdrawn prior to referral to the
Planning Commission and prior to any publication required by the application. A
deposit to cover staff or consulting time and special materials will be
estimated and required by the City Clerk at the time the base fee is paid.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.128 FEE SCHEDULE.
   Fee schedule for subdivision applications shall be set and adopted by
resolution by the City Council.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
**** ENFORCEMENT, NOTIFICATION, AND DISCLOSURE ****
§ 151.140 ENFORCEMENT.
   Unless approved as a final plat as provided herein, no subdivision shall be
entitled to record in the County Recorder’s Office or have validity; and the
City Clerk shall not issue building permits for any structure on a lot in any
proposed subdivision. The city shall not permit any public improvements to be
installed unless the final plat is approved and recorded.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.141 NOTIFICATION.
   A certified copy of every ordinance, resolution, amendment or regulation
adopted under this chapter shall be filed with the Carver County Recorder’s
Office. Copies of resolutions governing subdivision plats within the city, but
contiguous to another city shall be filed with the governing body of the
contiguous city.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any firm, person or corporation who violates any of the provisions of these
regulations, or who sells, leases or offers for sale or lease any lot, block or
tract of land herewith regulated before all the requirements of this chapter
have been complied with shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day that the
violation is permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-14-05)
 
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
Title and Application
   
152.001   Title and purpose
   
152.002   Legal authority
   
152.003   Deadline for actions
   
152.004   Scope, interpretation
   
152.005   Rules and definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.010   Variances
   
152.011   Appeals
   
152.012   Conditional use permits (CUP)
   
152.013   Interim use permits (IUP)
   
152.014   Amendment, text and map (Rezoning)
   
152.015   Site plan review required
   
152.016   Administrative permits
   
152.017   General administration
Performance Standards
   
152.025   Performance standards purpose
   
152.026   Dwelling unit restriction
   
152.027   Single-family dwelling requirements
   
152.028   Platted and unplatted property
   
152.029   Erosion and drainage
   
152.030   Exterior lighting
   
152.031   Smoke
   
152.032   Dust and other particulate matter
   
152.033   Air pollution
   
152.034   Noise
   
152.035   Vibration
   
152.036   Bulk storage (liquid)
   
152.037   Waste
   
152.038   Explosives
   
152.039   Radiation and electrical emissions
   
152.040   Traffic control
   
152.041   Wetland protection and management
General Regulations
   
152.050   Nonconforming buildings, structures and uses
   
152.051   Home occupations
   
152.052   Temporary structures
   
152.053   Essential services
   
152.054   Building relocation/moving
   
152.055   Screening
   
152.056   Landscaping
   
152.057   Fences
   
152.058   Outside storage
   
152.059   Lot provisions
   
152.060   Public property/rights-of-way
   
152.061   General yard and lot area regulations
   
152.062   Land excavation and mining
   
152.063   Building design standards
   
152.064   Accessory structures
   
152.065   Commercial wireless telecommunication service towers and antennae
   
152.066   Alternative energy systems
   
152.067   Off-street parking and driveway requirements
   
152.068   Off-street loading requirements
   
152.069   Animals
   
152.070   Sexual oriented businesses and uses
   
152.071   Sign regulations
Zoning Districts and Maps
   
152.080   Zoning districts established
   
152.081   Geographic jurisdiction
   
152.082   Official zoning map
   
152.083   Interpretation of zoning districts map
   
152.084   Annexations
   
152.085   (A-1) Agriculture District
   
152.086   (R-1) Single-Family Residential District
   
152.087   (R-2) Single- and Two-Family Residential District
   
152.088   (R-3) Two-Family and Townhouse Residential District
   
152.089   (R-4) Multiple-Family Residential District
   
152.090   (C-1) Highway Business District
   
152.091   (C-2) Central Business District
   
152.092   (C-I) Commercial-Industrial District
   
152.093   (I-1) Light Industrial District
   
152.094   (P-I) Public-Institutional District
   
152.095   Zoning Standards Table
   
152.096   (SL) Shoreland Overlay District
   
152.097   (FP) Floodplain Overlay District
   
152.098   (PUD) Planned Unit Development Overlay District
Cross-references:
   Excavations, see
Chapter 153
   Sexually oriented uses, see
Chapter 114
**** TITLE AND APPLICATION ****
§ 152.001 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the Mayer Zoning Ordinance except as
referred to herein, where it shall be known as “this chapter.”
   (B)   Intent and purpose. The intent of this chapter is to protect the
public health, safety and general welfare of the community and its people
through the establishment of minimum regulations in regard to the location,
erection, construction, alteration and use of structures and land. Such
regulations are established to protect such use areas; to promote orderly
development and redevelopment; to provide adequate light, air and convenience
of access to property; to prevent congestion in the public right of way; to
prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures by
regulating land, building, yards and density of population; to provide for
compatibility of different land uses; to provide for administration of this
chapter; to provide for amendments; to prescribe penalties for violation of
such regulations; and to define powers and duties of the city staff, the Board
of Adjustment and Appeals, the Planning Commission, and the City Council in
relation to this chapter.
   (C)   Relation to the city’s comprehensive plan. Pursuant to M.S. § 473.858,
as may be amended, and city policy, the city’s adopted comprehensive plan shall
serve as the basis upon which land use and development shall be regulated. This
chapter shall not conflict with and shall be based upon and implement the
city’s comprehensive plan.
   (D)   Standard, requirement. Where the conditions imposed by any provision
of this chapter are either more or less restrictive than comparable conditions
imposed by other ordinance, rule or regulation of the city, the ordinance, rule
or regulation which imposes the more restrictive condition, standard, or
requirement shall prevail.
   (E)   Application. The provisions of this chapter shall be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.002 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted in accordance with authority granted by M.S. §§
462.351 to 462.363, as amended.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.003 DEADLINE FOR ACTIONS.
   It is the intent of the city to comply with state requirements for timely
review and actions requiring formal approval by the city. Information
submissions and applications must be determined by the city to be complete
before a timeline for action is initiated. The review for completeness will be
conducted within ten business days of receipt of an application. In the event
the city cannot act upon a request within a timeframe of 60 days, the city will
notify an applicant in writing that action will be completed within 120 days of
the date the application was accepted by the city. In the event that multiple
approvals are involved in any action, such as a site plan review requiring a
variance or a zoning ordinance amendment requiring a comprehensive plan
amendment, each action shall require a separate, independent timeline for
action.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.004 SCOPE, INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Building compliance. No building, structure or part thereof, shall
hereafter be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, altered or moved
without a permit approved by the city, and no building, structure or land shall
be used for any purpose nor in any manner which is not in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Relationship to comprehensive plan. Interpretation and enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter are intended to be consistent with the
implementation of goals, policies and land use elements of the Mayer
comprehensive plan to the extent practical or required by law. The application
of or amendments to this chapter which are determined to be inconsistent with
the comprehensive plan shall require amendments to the comprehensive plan, this
chapter, or both.
   (C)   Minimum requirements. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (D)   Uses not provided for within zoning districts. Whenever in any zoning
district a use is neither specifically permitted nor denied, the use shall be
considered prohibited. In such cases the City Council or the Planning
Commission, on their own initiative or upon request, may conduct a study to
determine if the use is acceptable and if so, what zoning district would be
most appropriate and the determination as to conditions and standards relating
to development of the use. The City Council, Planning Commission or property
owner, upon receipt of the study shall, if appropriate, initiate an amendment
to this zoning chapter to provide for the particular use under consideration or
shall find that the use is not compatible for development within the city.
   (E)   Monuments. For the purpose of this chapter, all international,
federal, state, county and other official monuments, bench marks, triangulation
points, and stations shall be preserved in their precise locations; and it
shall be the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that these markers are
maintained in good condition during and following construction and development.
All section, one-quarter section and one-sixteenth section corners shall be
duly described and tied.
   (F)   Separability. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city
that the several provisions of this chapter are separable in accordance with
the following:
      (1)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision
of this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other
provisions of this chapter not specifically included in said judgment.
      (2)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property,
building, or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of
said provision to any other property, building, or structure not specifically
included in said judgment.
   (G)   Comprehensive revision. The City Council intends this chapter to be a
comprehensive revision to Title XV: Land Usage, Chapter 152: Zoning of the
Mayer Code of Ordinances. Any act done, offense committed, rights accruing or
accrued, liability, or penalty incurred or imposed prior to the effective date
of this chapter is not affected by its enactment.
   (H)   Opt out of M.S. § 462.3593. Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. §
462.3593, subd. 9, the city opts out of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593,
which defines and regulates temporary family care dwellings.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.005 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules. The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction.
      (1)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless such use or reference is otherwise specifically stated.
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and the
future the present.
      (3)   The word “shall” is mandatory while the word “may” is permissive.
      (4)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter unless
otherwise specifically noted.
      (5)   For terminology not defined in this chapter, this code, the
Minnesota State Building Code or the Webster’s dictionary shall be used to
define such terms.
      (6)   The catchlines of the sections of this chapter are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section, and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the provisions of any
sections.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABUTTING. Making contact with or separated only by public arterial,
railroad, public utility right-of-way or navigable waters.
      ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING. A subordinate building or use which is located
on the same lot on which the principal building or use is situated and which is
reasonably necessary and incidental to the conduct of the principal building or
use.
      ADDITION. A physical enlargement of an existing structure.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the City of Mayer or his or her
designee. The person designated by the City Council to administer this chapter.
      AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. All buildings, other than dwellings and accessory
garages, which are incidental to agricultural purposes, including, but not
limited to, barns, granaries, silos, farm implement storage buildings, and milk
houses.
      AGRICULTURAL USES. Those uses commonly associated with the growing of
produce on farms, these include: field crop farming; pasture for hay, fruit
growing; tree, plant, shrub, or flower nursery without building; truck
gardening; roadside stand for sale of in season products grown on premises; and
livestock raising and feeding, but not including fur farms, commercial animal
feedlots, retail nurseries and garden centers, and kennels.
      ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street.
      ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEM. A ground source heat pump, hydronic furnace,
wind or solar energy system.
      ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl
and poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
ANIMALS shall be classified as follows:
      DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non- constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing
work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm animals shall
include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows,
bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese), swine
(including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be naturally
wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
      ANIMAL FEEDLOT. A lot or building or combination of lots and buildings
intended for the confined feeding, breeding, raising, or holding of animals and
specifically designed as a confinement area in which manure may accumulate, or
where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be
maintained within the enclosure. Open lots used for feeding and rearing of
poultry (poultry ranges), and barns, dairy farms, swine facilities, beef lots
and barns, and horse stalls shall be considered to be ANIMAL FEEDLOTS. Pastures
shall not be considered ANIMAL FEEDLOTS.
      ANIMAL KENNEL. Any place where more than three domestic animals of one
type, over six months of age, are kept, sold, boarded, bred, or exhibited,
except hospitals, clinics, and other premises operated by a licensed
veterinarian exclusively for the care and treatment of animals.
      ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measure used to compare differences in the
production of animal manure that employs as a standard the amount of manure
produced on a regular basis by a slaughter steer or heifer for an animal
feedlot or manure storage area, calculated by multiplying the number of animals
of each type by the respective multiplication factor and summing the resulting
values for the total number of animal units, as established by the State of
Minnesota.
      ANTENNA. Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves, including but not limited to directional
antennae, such as panels, microwave dishes, and satellite dishes, and omni-
directional antennae, such as whip antennae.
      ANTENNA, ACCESSORY AND/OR SECONDARY USE. Those antennas including radio
and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs two meters or less
in diameter, shortwave radio dispatching antennas, or those necessary for the
operation of electronic equipment such as radio receivers, ham radio
transmitters and television receivers that are customary and incidental to
allowed principal uses within the various zoning districts of the city.
      ANTENNA, PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE. A device consisting of metal, carbon
fiber, or other electromagnetically conductive rods or elements, usually
arranged in a circular array on a single supporting pole or other structure,
and used for the transmission and reception of wireless communication radio
waves including cellular, personal communication service (PCS), enhanced
specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging and similar services and including
the support structure thereof.
      ANTENNA, PUBLIC UTILITY MICROWAVE. A parabolic dish or cornucopia shaped
electromagnetically reflective or conductive element used for the transmission
and/or reception of point to point UHF or VHF radio waves in wireless telephone
communications, and including the support structure thereof.
      ANTENNA, RADIO AND TELEVISION, BROADCAST TRANSMITTING. A wire, set of
wires, metal or carbon fiber rod or other electromagnetic element used to
transmit public or commercial broadcast radio, or television programming, and
including the support structure thereof.
      ANTENNA, RADIO AND TELEVISION RECEIVING. A wire, set of wires, metal or
carbon fiber element(s), other than satellite dish antennas, used to receive
radio, television, or electromagnetic waves, and including the support
structure thereof.
      ANTENNA, SATELLITE DISH. A device incorporating a reflective surface that
is solid, open mesh, or bar configured and is in the shape of a shallow dish,
cone, horn, or cornucopia. Such device is used to transmit and/or receive radio
or electromagnetic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally based uses.
This definition shall include, but not be limited to, what are commonly
referred to as satellite earth stations, TVROs (television, receive only) and
satellite microwave antennas and the support structure thereof.
      ANTENNA, SATELLITE DISH HEIGHT. The height of the antenna or dish
measured vertically from the highest point of the antenna or dish when
positioned for operation, to the top of the foundation which supports the
antenna.
      ANTENNA, SHORTWAVE RADIO TRANSMITTING AND RECEIVING. A wire, set of wires
or a device, consisting of a metal, carbon fiber, or other electromagnetically
conductive element used for the transmission and reception of radio waves used
for shortwave radio communications, and including the support structure
thereof.
      ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building or other structure other than a
tower which can be used for location of antennas.
      ANTENNA, TEMPORARY MOBILE. Any mobile tower, pole, or structure located
on a trailer, vehicle, or temporary platform intended primarily for the purpose
of mounting an antenna or similar apparatus for personal wireless services,
also commonly referred to as CELLULAR ON WHEELS (COW).
      ANTENNA TOWER. A self-supporting lattice, guyed or monopole structure
constructed from grade which supports personal wireless service antennas. The
term ANTENNA TOWER shall not include amateur radio operators’ equipment, as
licensed by the FCC.
         COMMERCIAL RECEIVING OR TRANSMITTING ANTENNA. Any antenna erected for
the commercial use of information.
         PRIVATE RECEIVING OR TRANSMITTING ANTENNA. Any antenna erected for the
noncommercial use of information.
      APPLICANT. The owner, their agent or person having legal control,
ownership and/or interest in land for which the provisions of this chapter are
being considered or reviewed.
      AUTOMOBILE RECYCLING BUSINESS. Any open area where waste, discarded, or
salvaged materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled,
kept, stored or handled, including but not limited to scrap metals or scrap
materials, or the abandonment or dismantling of machinery, motor vehicles, or
other vehicles, or parts thereof.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles, motorcycles, boats, recreational vehicles and/or
trailers; collision service, including body, frame or fender straightening or
repair; overall painting or paint job; vehicle steam cleaning.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Installation, including electronics systems,
minor repairs, upholstering, replacement of parts (tires, glass, and the like),
exterior and interior detailing, window tinting, and minor motor services to
passenger automobiles and trucks classified by the Federal Highway
Administration as Class 3 or smaller, but not including any operation specified
under the definition of “automobile repair, major” in this section.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SHOP. Any structure or building where major or minor
repair of motor vehicles is conducted for profit.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building or premises used for the
dispensing or sale of automobile fuels, lubricating oil or grease, tires,
batteries, or minor automobile accessories. Services offered may include the
installation of tires, batteries, or minor accessories; minor automobile
repairs; and greasing or washing of individual automobiles.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING OR JUNK YARD. Any place where two or more vehicles
not in running condition and/or not licensed, or parts thereof, are stored in
the open and are not being restored to operation or any land, building or
structure used for wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof,
and including any commercial salvaging and scavenging of any other goods,
articles or merchandise.
      AWNING. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal or glass
designed and intended for protection from the weather or as a decorative
embellishment, and which projects from a wall or roof of a structure primarily
over a window, walk, or the like. Any part of an awning which also projects
over a door shall be counted as an AWNING.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. See also “regional flood.”
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the regional flood. The term BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION is used in the flood insurance survey.
      BASEMENT. That portion of a building between floor and ceiling, which is
partly below and partly above grade, but so located that the vertical distance
from grade to the floor below is more than the vertical distance from grade to
ceiling. (See definition of “story.”)
      BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A building, typically residential in
character, where for compensation lodging is provided to transient guests, and
where meals and/or beverages may be offered in connection with the provision of
sleeping accommodations.
      BILLBOARD. An advertising sign, which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment not exclusively, related to premises where
such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
      BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision which is entirely bounded by
streets or by street, rail right-of-way, waterway or exterior boundary of the
subdivision.
      BOARD OF APPEALS AND ADJUSTMENTS. The City Council of the City of Mayer.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and
by prearrangement for definite periods, lodging and/or meals are provided to
persons not of the principal family therein, pursuant to previous arrangements
and not to anyone who may apply.
      BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb and
the property line.
      BUFFER. The use of land, topography, difference in elevation, space,
fences or landscape plantings to screen or partially screen a use or property
from another use or property or to shield or mitigate noise, lights or other
impacts.
      BUFFER YARD. A strip of land utilized to screen or partially screen a use
or property from another use or property or to shield or mitigate noise,
lights, or other impacts.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
      BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
      BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED. A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space or from other buildings or structures by a permanent roof
and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows and normal
entrance and exit doors.
      BUILDING, DETACHED ACCESSORY. A building surrounded by open space on the
same lot as the principal building, clearly subordinate and incidental to the
principal use.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. A distance to be measured from the mean ground level to
the top of a flat roof, to the mean distance of the highest gable on a pitched
or hip roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, to the uppermost point on all
other roof types.
      BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building including, but not limited to, photovoltaic or hot
water solar systems contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights and
awnings.
      BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high-water
level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
      BUSINESS. Any establishment, occupation, employment or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
      CANOPY. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal, or glass on a
support, which provides shelter over a doorway.
      CANOPY OF TREE. The horizontal extension of a tree’s branches and foliage
in all directions from its trunk and upper layer of green crown.
      CELLAR. The portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is
wholly or partly below grade and so located that the vertical distance from
grade to the floor below is equal to or greater than the vertical distance from
grade to ceiling.
      CEMETERY. A parcel or tract of land used or intended to be used for the
burial of the dead including columbaria, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries
when operated within the boundaries of such cemetery.
      CITY/COMMUNITY. The City of Mayer, Minnesota.
      CITY ATTORNEY. The person designated by the City Council to be the city
attorney for the City of Mayer.
      CITY BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person designated by the City Council to be
the city building official for the City of Mayer.
      CITY COUNCIL. The governing body for the City of Mayer.
      CITY ENGINEER. The person designated by the City Council to be the city
engineer for the City of Mayer.
      CLEARCUTTING. The complete (as opposed to selective) removal of
vegetation or a stand of trees within an area.
      CLINIC, MEDICAL. A building in which a group of physicians, dentists or
combination thereof and professional assistants are associated for carrying on
their profession. The clinic may include a dental or medical laboratory, but
shall not include in-patient care or operating rooms for major surgery.
      CLOSED LOOP GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM. A system that circulates a
heat transfer fluid, typically food-grade antifreeze, through pipes or coils
buried beneath the land surface or anchored to the bottom in a body of water.
      CLUB OR LODGE. A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide
members paying annual dues, with the use of premises being restricted to
members and their guests for receptions, social recreation, and other
gatherings.
      COMMERCIAL SPEECH. Speech advertising a business, profession, commodity,
service or entertainment.
      COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Licensed commercial
wireless telecommunication services including cellular, personal communication
services (PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized
mobilized radio (ESMR), paging, and similar services that are marketed to the
general public.
      COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Mayer.
      COMMON AREA. COMMON AREAS belong to all the owners equally, as does the
physical and financial responsibility to maintain them and owners have the
irrevocable right to enter and use the COMMON AREAS during reasonable hours for
the use and enjoyment of the owner and for the purpose of maintenance or
repair.
      COMMUNITY SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar-electric (photovoltaic) array that
provides retail electric power (or a financial proxy for retail power) to
multiple community members or businesses residing or located off-site from the
location of the solar energy system.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in this
chapter’s official zoning controls or building regulations and upon a finding
that:
         (a)   Certain conditions as detailed in this chapter exist; and
         (b)   The structure and/or land use conform to the Comprehensive Land
Use Plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
      CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the City Council in accordance
with procedures specified in this chapter, as a flexibility device to enable
the City Council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions
surrounding it after consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the
special problems which the proposed use present.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Mayer comprehensive plan, which includes various
chapters addressing land use, transportation, water system, sanitary sewer,
water resources, parks, trails and open space and capital improvements.
      CONDOMINIUM. A multiple-family dwelling or development containing
individually owned dwelling units and jointly owned and shared areas and
facilities, which dwelling or development is subject to the provisions of the
Minnesota condominium law, M.S. §§
515.01 through
515.29.
      CONDOMINIUM OR COMMON INTEREST COMMUNITIES. A development containing
individually owned units and jointly owned and shared areas wherein the
boundaries are defined by a condominium plan or common interest community in
accordance with M.S. Ch. 515, 515A or 515B, as amended.
      CONIFEROUS TREE. A woody plant bearing seeds and cones oftentimes, but
not always, retaining foliage throughout the year.
      COOPERATIVE (HOUSING). A multiple-family dwelling owned and maintained by
the residents and subject to the provisions of M.S.§§ 290.09 and 290.13. The
entire structure and real property is under common ownership as contrasted to a
condominium dwelling where individual units are under separate individual
occupant ownership.
      CRITICAL FACILITIES. Facilities necessary to a community’s public health
and safety, those that store or produce highly volatile, toxic or water-
reactive materials, and those that house occupants that may be insufficiently
mobile to avoid loss of life or injury. Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES include
hospitals, correctional facilities, schools, daycare facilities, nursing homes,
fire and police stations, wastewater treatment facilities, public electric
utilities, water plants, fuel storage facilities, and waste handling and
storage facilities.
      DAYCARE FACILITY. Any facility licensed by the State Department of Human
Services, public or private, which, for gain or otherwise, regularly provides
one or more persons with care, training, supervision, habilitation,
rehabilitation or developmental guidance on a regular basis, for periods of
less than 24 hours per day, in a place other than the person’s own home,
including head start and early education programs.
      DECIDUOUS TREE. A woody plant which has a defined crown, and which loses
leaves annually.
      DECK. Horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises, or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site and at any point extending above grade.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials.
      DIAMETER OF CONIFEROUS TREE. Every two feet in height of a coniferous
tree is equivalent to one caliper inch of diameter.
      DIAMETER OF DECIDUOUS TREE. The length of a straight line measured in
caliper inches through the trunk of a tree at four and one-half feet above the
ground.
      DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations and
provisions governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each class
of use permitted therein.
      DRAINING. The removal of surface water or groundwater from land.
      DREDGING. To enlarge or clean out a water body, watercourse, or wetland.
      DRIP LINE OR ROOT ZONE OF TREE. An imaginary vertical line which extends
from the outermost branches of a canopy to the ground.
      DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY. An establishment (principal or accessory use) at
which patrons may purchase products or receive service without having to leave
the motor vehicle.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two- family, and multiple-family
dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, boarding houses, bed and
breakfast, mobile homes or trailers.
      DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling that is attached to another at one or more
sides by a common wall.
      DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling which is completely surrounded by open
space on the same lot.
      DWELLING, EFFICIENCY APARTMENT. A dwelling unit consisting of one
principal room exclusive of bathroom, hallway, closets, or dining alcove.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY (APARTMENT). A building designed with three or
more dwelling units exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living
independently of each other, but accessing individual units via common
entrances, hallways, stairways, or enclosed garages.
      DWELLING, NURSING HOME. A state licensed facility or that part of a
facility which provides nursing care pursuant to M.S. § 144A.01.
      DWELLING, SENIOR HOUSING. A dwelling with open occupancy limited to
persons over 55 years of age.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling unit designed exclusively for and
occupied exclusively by one family.
      DWELLING, TOWNHOUSES. Structures housing three or more dwelling units
contiguous to each other by the sharing of one or more common walls, floors, or
ceilings with each unit having separate entrance/exit via individual exterior
doors from individual or shared attached garages, with dwelling units arranged
in a row, quad, back-to-back, or stacked arrangement.
      DWELLING, TOWNHOUSES, DETACHED. A structure having the characteristics of
a multiple-unit townhouse structure that has been separated into single
dwelling units at the common side wall, typically with structure dimensions
that have a narrow front and deep side walls and are typically without windows
or features on at least one of the side walls and may include common owned land
around the dwelling.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A structure having two dwelling units contiguous to
each other only by the sharing of one or more common walls (without an interior
connection) with each unit having a separate entrance/exit designed exclusively
for occupancy by two families living independently of each other.
         DUPLEX. A two-family dwelling with one unit above the other.
         TWIN HOME. A two-family dwelling with two units side by side.
      DWELLING UNIT. A residential building or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by one or more persons with facilities for living, sleeping, cooking
and eating, but not including hotels, motels, nursing homes, tents, seasonal
cabins, boarding or rooming houses, motor homes, or travel trailers except
within the Shoreland Overlay District where these uses shall be considered
dwelling units.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land and
for the purpose of constructing and maintaining streets, trails, sidewalks,
drives, and/or utilities, including, but not limited to, wetlands, stormwater
basins, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm
sewer or storm drainageways, and gas lines.
      ELEVATION. The view of the side, front, or rear of a given structure(s).
      EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
      ERECT. Activity of constructing, building, raising, assembling, placing,
affixing, attaching, creating, painting, drawing or any other way of bringing
into being or establishing.
      EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by the action of natural
elements.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance by private or public utilities, or municipal departments of
underground or overhead telephone, gas, electrical, steam, hot water,
communication, waste, or water transmission, distribution, collection, supply
or disposal systems, including water towers, wells, poles, wires, radio
receivers and transmitters, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables,
fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, utility
substations and other similar equipment, accessories and related structures in
connection therewith for the furnishing of adequate service by such private or
public utilities or municipal departments. ESSENTIAL SERVICES shall not include
waste facilities or personal wireless service antennas or support structures.
      EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of the land for surface or subsurface removal of
sand, gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other nonmetallic minerals, and peat
not regulated under M.S. §§ 93.44 through 93.51.
      FAMILY. An individual or group that maintains a common household and use
of common cooking and kitchen facilities and common entrances to a single
dwelling unit, where the group consists of:
         (a)    Two or more persons each related to the other by blood,
marriage, domestic partnership, adoption, legal guardianship, foster children,
and/or cultural or educational exchange program participants hosted by the
principal family; or
         (b)   Not more than four unrelated persons.
      FARM. A tract of land of more than ten acres in size usually with a house
and barn plus other buildings on which crops and often livestock are raised for
a principal source of livelihood.
      FARM FENCE. A fence as defined by M.S. § 344.02, subd. 1.(a)-(d). An open
type fence of posts and wire is not considered to be a structure under this
chapter. Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood flows, such as chain
link fences and rigid walls, are regulated as structures under this chapter.
      FARMING. Process of operating a farm for the growing and harvesting of
crops which shall include those necessary accessory buildings, related to
operating the farm, and the keeping of common domestic farm animals.
      FENCE. Any lineal structure, including any partition, structure, wall,
gate or similar barriers, erected as a dividing mark, barrier or enclosure,
used to prevent access by persons or animals or prevent visual or sound
transference.
      FLAG. Any fabric or similar lightweight material attached at one end of
the material, usually to a staff or pole, so as to allow movement of the
material by atmospheric changes and which contains distinctive colors,
patterns, symbols, emblems, insignia, or other symbolic devices.
      FLOOD. A temporary rise in a stream flow or stage which results in
inundation of the areas adjacent to the channel.
         FLOOD FREQUENCY. The average frequency, statistically determined, for
which it is expected that a specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or
exceeded. By strict definition, such estimates are designated “exceedence
frequency,” but in practice the term “frequency” is used. The frequency of a
particular stage of discharge is usually expressed as having a probability of
occurring once within a specific number of years.
         FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway.
         FLOOD PROFILE. A graph or a longitudinal plot of water surface
elevation of a flood event along a reach of a stream or river.
         FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or
hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
         FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining floodplains which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
regional flood.
      FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
      FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the special flood hazard area (1% annual
chance flood) located outside of the floodway. FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with
the term “floodway fringe” used in the Flood Insurance Study for Carver County,
Minnesota.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made
available digitally is called a DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM).
      FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land susceptible to being inundated by water from
any source.
      FLOOD PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties, structures, water and sanitary facilities and
contents of structures subject to flooding, primarily for the reduction or
elimination of flood damages.
      FLOOD, REGIONAL. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in magnitude of the 1% chance or
100-year recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term “base
flood" used in a flood insurance study.
      FLOOD, REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION. An elevation not less than one foot
above the elevation of the regional floodplain plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
      FLOODPLAIN. The channel or beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland,
lake or watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional
flood. FLOODPLAIN areas within the city shall encompass all areas designated as
Zone A on the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
      FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse
and those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
      FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors
of a building or buildings on a zoning lot measured from the exterior faces of
exterior walls or from the centerline of party walls separating two buildings.
In particular, floor area will include:
         (a)   Basement space (see “basement” defined herein);
         (b)   Attic floor space where the structural headroom exceeds seven
and one-half feet;
         (c)   Interior balconies and mezzanines;
         (d)   Enclosed porches, but not terraces and breezeways;
         (e)   Stairwells at each level;
         (f)    Accessory structures.
      FLOOR AREA, LIVABLE. The same area as defined in “floor area,” excluding
all areas occupied by basements, garages, porches, attics, stairways and
storage, utility and heating rooms and other accessory uses.
      FLOOR AREA RATIO (F.A.R.). The floor area of the building or buildings on
a zoning lot divided by the area of the zoning lot, or in the case of planned
development, by the net site area. The F.A.R. requirements, as set forth in
each zoning district, shall determine the maximum floor area allowable (total
floor area of both principal and accessory buildings) in direct ratio to the
gross area of the zoning lot.
      FORESTER. A person holding at least a bachelor’s degree in forestry from
an accredited four-year college of forestry or any official appointed by the
city.
      FOUNDATION. The basis on which a structure stands, is founded, or is
supported.
      FUNERAL HOME OR MORTUARY. An establishment with facilities for the
preparation of the dead for burial or cremation, for the viewing of the body,
and for funerals.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE (RESIDENTIAL). A detached accessory building or attached
accessory portion of the principal building which is primarily intended for and
used to store the private motor vehicles of the family resident upon the
premises.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion of a building, except any herein
defined as a private garage or as a repair garage, used for the storage of
motor vehicles, or where any such vehicles are kept for remuneration or hire.
      GARAGE SALE. An infrequent display of used goods and sale of the goods on
a property customarily used as a residence. The persons conducting the sale
shall be residents of the property.
      GEOTHERMAL ENERGY. Renewable energy generated from the interior of the
earth and used to produce energy for heating buildings or serving building
commercial or industrial processes.
      GRADE. The final ground elevation after construction. Earth mounding
criteria for landscaping and screening is not part of the FINAL GRADE for sign
height computation.
      GRADING. Changing the natural or existing topography of the land.
      GREENHOUSE. An enclosed building, permanent or portable, which is used
for the growing of small plants.
      GROUND MOUNTED SES. Freestanding solar energy system (panels) that are
mounted to the ground by use of stabilizers or similar apparatus.
      GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM (GSHPS). A system that uses the relatively
constant temperature of the earth or a body of water to provide heating in the
winter and cooling in the summer. System components include closed loops of
pipe, coils or plates; a fluid that absorbs and transfers heat; and a heat pump
unit that processes heat for use or disperses heat for cooling; and an air
distribution system. The energy must be used on-site.
      HARDWOOD DECIDUOUS TREE. Includes ironwood, catalpa, oak, maple (hard),
walnut, ash, hickory, birch, black cherry, hackberry, locust and basswood.
      HEALTHY TREE. Average or better condition and vigor for area as may be
determined by the forester.
      HEAT TRANSFER FLUID. A non-toxic and food grade fluid such as potable
water, aqueous solutions of propylene glycol not to exceed 20% by weight or
aqueous solutions of potassium acetate not to exceed 20% by weight.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE. See also “substantial improvement.”
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession engaged in by the occupant
of a residential dwelling unit, which is clearly incidental and secondary to
the residential use of the premises and does not change the character of the
premises.
      HOME OFFICE. A home occupation consisting of a room or group of rooms
used for conducting affairs of a recognized business, profession or service
solely by the occupant of the dwelling and which does not involve the on-site
sale of products or client/patron site visitations.
      HORIZONTAL GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM. A closed loop ground source
heat pump system where the loops or coils are installed horizontally in a
trench or series of trenches no more than 20 feet below the land surface.
      HOSPITAL. An institution providing persons with intensive medical or
surgical care and devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of disease
or injury, maternity cases, or mental illness.
      HOTEL. A principal commercial use providing temporary lodging of
transient persons and guest related services for compensation, whether the
compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. An artificial or natural surface that is highly
resistant to infiltration by water. It includes, but is not limited to surfaces
such as compacted sand, clay or gravel as well as most conventionally surfaced
streets, roofs, swimming pools, sidewalks in excess of three feet in width,
parking lots, and other similar structures, but not including decks or
platforms where one-quarter inch gaps are provided between deck boards for
water to drain.
      INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A sewage treatment system or part
thereof, serving a dwelling, building, structure or other establishment, or
group thereof, and using sewage tanks or advanced treatment followed by soil
treatment and disposal. INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM includes holding
tanks.
      INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities,
or other wholesale items.
      INSTITUTIONAL. Relating to an institution such as, public buildings,
schools, or religious institutions.
      INTERIM USE. A temporary use of property until a particular date, until
the occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer
permit.
      INTERIM USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with procedures
specified in this chapter, as a flexible device to enable the City Council to
assign time limits and conditions to a proposed use after consideration of
current or future adjacent uses and their functions.
      INTERMITTENT. A stream or portion of a stream that flows only in direct
response to precipitation.
      LAND/SEA CONTAINERS. Fully enclosed metal or other prefabricated material
structures, containers, holders, or receptacles greater than five feet in
length with an opening for access, which may or may not have a door attached,
and which are used for purposes of, but not limited to, storage, transportation
of freight, or holding for sale or lease.
      LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A person licensed by the State of Minnesota as a
landscape architect.
      LANDSCAPING. Plantings such as trees, flowers, grass and shrubs and
improvements directly related thereto.
      LOADING SPACE (OFF STREET). A formally delineated space, area, or berth
on the same lot with a building, or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the
temporary parking of a vehicle or truck while loading or unloading merchandise
or materials.
      LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, having not less than the minimum area required by this chapter for a
building site in the district in which such lot is situated and having its
principal frontage on a public street.
      LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane within the front, side, and rear
lot lines.
      LOT, BASE. Lots meeting all the specifications in the zoning district
prior to being subdivided into unit lots.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or
more intersecting streets. On such a lot both yards fronting a street shall be
deemed front yards.
      LOT COVERAGE. The area of a lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings, accessory structures, driveways, sidewalks, off-street parking
areas, parking pads and other impervious surface areas.
      LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of a lot (the greater frontage of a corner lot shall be
deemed its depth and the lesser frontage its width).
      LOT FRONTAGE. The narrowest lot boundary abutting a public street that
meets minimum lot width requirements. If none of the boundaries abutting a
public street meet minimum lot width requirements, then the lot frontage is the
widest boundary abutting a street.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot, including through or double
frontage lots.
      LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from the street right of
way along the lot frontage having the least width. On a corner lot, from which
street access is gained that lot line will be the FRONT LOT LINE.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the lot
frontage which connects the side lot lines.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision or plat, an auditor’s
subdivision or a registered land survey or a parcel of land not so platted,
which has been approved by the city or meets the following conditions:
         (a)    Was a separate parcel of record April 1, 1945 or the date of
adoption of subdivision regulations under Laws 1945, Chapter 287, whichever is
later, or of the adoption of subdivision regulations pursuant to a home rule
charter;
         (b)    Was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered into
prior to such time;
         (c)    Was a separate parcel of not less than two and one-half acres
in area and 150 feet in width on January 1;
         (d)    Was a separate parcel of not less than five acres in area and
300 feet in width on July 1, 1980.
         (e)    Is a single parcel of commercial or industrial land of not less
than five acres and having a width of not less than 300 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than five acres in area or 300 feet in width;
         (f)    Is a single parcel of residential or agricultural land of not
less than 20 acres and having a width of not less than 500 feet and its
conveyance does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots
or parcels, any one of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in
width.
      LOT, SUBSTANDARD. A lot or parcel of land which does not meet the minimum
lot area, structure setbacks or other dimensional standards of this chapter.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on two parallel streets. Also defined as a
DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT.
      LOT, TRIANGULAR. A lot in which the side lot lines converge into a single
vertex. The vertex shall be deemed to be the rear lot line.
      LOT, UNIT. Lots created from the subdivision of a base lot for the
purpose of developing detached townhouse, two-family, attached townhouse or
condominium residential, commercial or industrial developments or developments
with more than one principal structure on a lot whereby the individual units
have title to the portion of land that is generally underlying the structure.
      LOT WIDTH. The minimum required horizontal distance between the side lot
lines measured at right angles to the lot depth, at the front setback line. For
cul-de-sac lots or other lots of record where the front lot line is a curve or
irregular line, LOT WIDTH shall mean the minimum required horizontal distance
between the side lot lines, measured along a straight line at the midpoint of
the front setback line.
      LOT, ZONING. A single tract of land which consists of one or more lots of
record and which, at the time of filing for a building permit, is designated by
its owner or developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a
separate unit under single ownership or control. A ZONING LOT may or may not
coincide with a single lot of record, but in no case shall a ZONING LOT include
a portion of a lot of record.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of 44 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 60.3.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet
or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein; except that the term includes any structure which
meets all the requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer
voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of State and
complies with the standards established under M.S. Ch. 327.
      MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building
or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of that building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
      METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by
starting at a known point and describing the bearings and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property or delineating a fractional
portion of a section, lot or area by described lines or portions thereof.
      MINING. All or any part of the process involved in the extraction of
minerals by removing the overburden and extracting directly from the mineral
deposits thereby exposed.
      MODEL HOME. A home which is similar to others in a development and which
is open to public inspection for the purpose of selling the other homes.
      MOTEL. An establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached
living or sleeping accommodations with bathroom, located on a single zoning lot
and designed for short term use by transient automobile tourists.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A self-propelled vehicle for personal or business use
defined in M.S. § 169.011.
      MULTIPLE TENANT SITE. Any site which has more than one tenant, and each
tenant has a separate ground level exterior public entrance.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures, including additions and improvements, and
placement of manufactured homes, for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
      NON-COMMERCIAL SPEECH. Dissemination of messages not classified as
commercial speech which include, but are not limited to, messages concerning
political, religious, social, ideological, public service and informational
topics.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE, ILLEGAL. A structure or use that has
been established in a manner that does not conform to the applicable conditions
required by the regulations in place at the time the structure or use was
established.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE, LEGAL. Any lawfully established
structure or use which on the effective date of this chapter does not conform
to the applicable conditions if the structure or use was to be erected under
the guidance of this chapter.
      OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, dredged spoil, channel modification, culvert,
building, wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, stockpile, or matter
in, along, across, or projecting into any channel, watercourse, lake bed, or
regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard, or change the direction of flow
of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such
water.
      OFFICE. An establishment located within a building or portion of a
building for the conduct of business activities involving predominantly
professional, or administrative service operations including attorneys,
financial advisors, consultants, insurance, and other uses of similar
character.
      ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOODPLAIN (100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN). Lands inundated by the
“regional flood” (see definition).
      OPEN LOOP GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM. A system that uses groundwater
as a heat transfer fluid by drawing groundwater from a well to a heat pump and
then discharging the water over land, directly in a water body or injection
well.
      ORDINARY HIGH-WATER LEVEL. The boundary of public waters and wetlands,
and shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ORDINARY HIGH-WATER LEVEL is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH-WATER LEVEL is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
      OUTDOOR HYDRONIC FURNACE. A freestanding accessory structure housing a
wood or other approved solid fuel burning furnace, with a smoke stack, used to
provide heat or hot water to a building, or accessory structure, designed to:
         (a)    Burn wood or other approved solid fuels;
         (b)   That the manufacturer specifies for outdoor installation or
installation in structures not normally occupied by humans; and
         (c)    Heat building space and/or water via the distribution,
typically through pipes, of a fluid heated in the device, typically water or a
water/antifreeze mixture. This includes, without limitation, any structure,
equipment, device, or apparatus, or any part thereof, which is installed,
affixed, constructed or located outdoors for the primary purpose of combustion
of solid fuel, including but not limited to wood, to produce heat or energy
used as a component of a heating system.
      OUTDOOR WOOD BOILER. See OUTDOOR HYDRONIC FURNACE.
      OUTLOT. A parcel of land included in a plat identified by a capital
letter and is land that is not part of a block.
      OWNER. In the case of a lot, the legal owner of the lot as officially
recorded by Carver County, and including fee owners, contract for deed
purchasers and ground lessees. In the case of a sign, the owner of the sign
including any lessees.
      PARAPET (WALL). That portion of building wall that rises above the roof
level.
      PARKING LOT. A structure utilized for the temporary storage of motor
vehicles.
      PARKING PAD. A pad used for parking vehicles not considered part of the
driveway, which shall be constructed of appropriate surface materials depending
on location.
      PARKING SPACE. An area enclosed in the principal building, in an
accessory building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one motor
vehicle, which has adequate access to a public or private street, alley or
driveway permitting satisfactory ingress and egress of an automobile.
      PASSIVE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A system that captures solar light or heat
without transferring it to another form of energy or transferring the energy
via a heat exchanger.
      PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or
not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
      PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. Criteria established to control noise, odor, toxic
or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, glare or heat, or
other potential impacts generated by or inherent in uses of land and buildings.
      PERMITTED USE. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and performance standards (if any) of such districts.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association, or political body or organization of any
kind; and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee or other similar
representative.
      PERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface that water can infiltrate into or percolate
through.
      PHOTVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that converts solar energy
directly into electricity.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A development consisting of clustering or mixed
uses in which variations from conventional zoning standards may be permitted in
exchange for the protection of natural areas; creation of additional parks,
park facilities and pedestrian ways; and similar public benefits.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Mayer.
      PORCH. An architectural feature relating to a floor-like platform
structure attached to the front or back entrance of a residence. It is external
to the walls of the main building proper, but may be enclosed by screen,
latticework, broad windows, or other light frame walls extending from the main
structure.
      PRINCIPAL USE/BUILDING. The main use of land or buildings as
distinguished from subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE OR BUILDING
may be either permitted, interim, conditional, or allowed by administrative
permit.
      PUBLIC NOTICES. Official notices posted by public officers, employees or
their agents in the performance of their duties, or as directed by such
officers, employees or agents.
      PUBLIC STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire right-of-way for a public street.
      PUBLIC USES. Uses owned or operated by municipal, school districts,
county, state, or other governmental units.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Persons, corporations, or governments supplying gas,
electric, transportation, water, sewer, or land-line telephone services to the
general public. For the purpose of this chapter, commercial wireless
telecommunication services shall not be considered PUBLIC UTILITY uses, and are
defined separately.
      PUBLICATION. Notice placed in the official city newspaper stating time,
location and date of meeting and description of the topic.
      REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of
a stream or river influenced by a natural or manmade obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a REACH.
      RECREATION FIELD OR BUILDING. An area of land, water, or any building in
which amusement, recreation or athletic sports are provided for public or
semipublic use, whether temporary or permanent, except a theater, whether
provision is made for the accommodation of an assembly or not. A golf course,
arena, baseball park, stadium, or gymnasium is a RECREATION FIELD OR BUILDING
for the purpose of this chapter.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT. Any type of operable and licensed
vehicle as required by the state, either self-powered or drawn by another
vehicle that is used primarily for purposes of recreation or transportation of
recreational vehicles, equipment, and the like. A vehicle that is built on a
single chassis, is 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection, is designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable
by a light duty truck, and is designed primarily not for use as a permanent
dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or
seasonal use, including but not limited to campers, motor homes, travel
trailers, slide in campers, airplanes, converted buses, snowmobiles and
trailers, camper trailers, motorcycle trailers, snowmobile trailers, horse
trailers, boats/watercraft and trailers, fish house, all-terrain vehicles, and
the like. A fish house boat, snowmobile, or other RECREATIONAL VEHICLE when
stored or kept on a trailer shall be considered as one RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
For purposes of this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is synonymous with
the term “travel trailer/travel vehicle.”
      RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. A church, synagogue, mosque, or other religious
organization organized under M.S. Ch. 315.
      REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY. Any residential care program, defined by M.S.
§ 245A.02 and licensed by the State of Minnesota.
      RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Any district zoned for residential uses.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY, STATE LICENSED. Any residential care program,
defined by M.S. § 245A.02 and licensed by the State of Minnesota.
      RESIDENTIAL SHELTER. A facility providing short term housing, food, and
protection for individuals for purposes such as chemical dependency and
domestic abuse, but not including provision of on-site supportive services to
residents, including the following: mental health services; clinical
rehabilitation services; social services; medical, dental, nutritional and
other health care services; financial management services; legal services;
vocational services; and other similar supportive services, and not including
state licensed residential care facilities, community correctional facilities,
daycare facilities, or hotels.
      RESTAURANT (CONVENIENCE). An establishment that serves food and/or
beverages, in or on disposable or edible containers, for consumption on or off
premises, including drive-in restaurants, and including drive-through
facilities.
      RESTAURANT (GENERAL). An establishment which serves food in or on non-
disposable dishes to be consumed primarily while seated at tables or booths
within the building.
      RETAIL BUSINESS. An establishment engaged in the display and sale of
products produced off site directly to consumers within a building or portion
of a building, excluding any exterior display and sales.
      ROOF. The exterior surface and its supporting structure on the top of a
building or structure, the structural make-up of which conforms to the roof
structures, roof construction and roof covering sections of the Uniform
Building Code.
      ROOF LINE. The upper-most edge of the roof or in the case of an extended
facade or parapet, the upper-most height of the facade.
      ROOF OR BUILDING MOUNTED SES. A solar energy system (panels) that are
mounted to the roof or building using brackets, stands or other apparatus.
      ROOF PITCH. The final exterior slope of a building roof calculated by the
rise over the run, typically, but not exclusively, expressed in twelfths such
as 3/12, 9/12 or 12/12.
      ROTOR DIAMETER. The diameter of the circle described by the moving rotor
blades on a (WECS).
      SCHOOL. A building used for the purpose of elementary or secondary
education, which meets all the requirements of compulsory education laws of the
State of Minnesota, and not providing residential accommodations.
      SCHOOL, PRIVATE. Any building or group of buildings, not operated by a
public agency or unit of government, the use of which meets compulsory
education laws of the state of Minnesota, for elementary school, middle school
(junior high school), secondary (senior high school), or higher education and
which use does not secure the major part of its funding directly from any
governmental source.
      SCHOOL, PUBLIC. Any building or group of buildings, the use of which
meets compulsory education laws of the State of Minnesota, for elementary
school, middle school (junior high school), secondary (senior high school), or
higher education and which secures all or the major part of its funding from
governmental sources and is operated by a public agency or governmental unit.
      SECONDARY USE. A use of land or of a building or a portion thereof which
is subordinate to and does not constitute the primary use of the land or
building.
      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure and lot
line, ordinary high-water mark, or right-of-way easement. Distances are to be
measured from the most outwardly extended portion of the structure at ground
level.
      SETBACK, FRONT. The minimum horizontal distance permitted between the
public right-of-way and a structure on the premises. In instances in which a
property fronts on more than one street, FRONT SETBACKS are required on all
street frontages.
      SETBACK, REAR. The minimum horizontal distance permitted between the
property line opposite the principal street frontage and a structure on the
premises.
      SETBACK, SIDE. The minimum horizontal distance permitted between the side
lot line and a structure on the premises.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED USES. (See definitions in §
114.02.)
      SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public
waters: 1,000 feet from the ordinary high-water level of a lake, pond, or
flowage; and 300 feet from a river or stream, or the landward extent of a
floodplain as designated by ordinance, on a river or stream, whichever is
greater. The limits of SHORELANDS may be reduced whenever the waters involved
are bounded by topographic divides which extend landward from the waters for
lesser distance and when approved by the Commissioner of the Department of
Natural Resources.
      SIGN. Any letter, word or symbol, poster, picture, statuary, reading
matter or representation in the nature of advertisement, announcement, message
or visual communication, whether painted, posted, printed, affixed or
constructed, including all associated brackets, braces, supports, wires and
structures, which is displayed for informational or communicative purposes.
      SIGN, ABANDONED. Any sign and/or its supporting sign structure which
remains without a message or whose display surface remains blank for a period
of one year or more, or any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose
which no longer applies, shall be deemed to have been ABANDONED. Signs
applicable to a business temporarily suspended because of a change in ownership
or management of such business shall not be deemed ABANDONED unless the
property remains vacant for a period of one year or more. Any sign remaining
after demolition of a principal structure shall be deemed to be ABANDONED.
Signs which are present because of being legally established nonconforming
signs or signs which have required a conditional use permit or a variance shall
also be subject to the definition of ABANDONED SIGN.
      SIGN, AWNING. A building sign or graphic printed on or in some fashion
attached directly to the awning material.
      SIGN, BALLOON. A sign consisting of a bag made of lightweight material
supported by helium, hot, or pressurized air which is greater than 24 inches in
diameter.
      SIGN, BANNER. A strip of fabric, cloth, vinyl, plastic or other material
upon which a sign is displayed.
      SIGN, BUILDING. Any sign attached or supported by any building.
      SIGN, CABINET. Any wall sign that is not of channel or individually
mounted letter construction.
      SIGN, CANOPY. Any sign that is part of or attached to a canopy, made of
fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door or entrance. A
CANOPY SIGN is not a marquee and is different from service area canopy signs.
      SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof that has a reader
board for the display of text information in which each alphanumeric character,
graphic or symbol is defined by objects not consisting of an illumination
device and may be changed or rearranged manually or mechanically with
characters, illustrations, letters or numbers that can be changed or rearranged
without altering the face or surface of the sign structure.
      SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN, ELECTRONIC. A sign or portion thereof that
displays electronic, nonpictorial text information in which each alphanumeric
character, graphic, or symbol is defined by a small number of matrix elements
using different combinations of light emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber optics,
light bulbs or other illumination devices within the display area. ELECTRONIC
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS include computer programmable, microprocessor controlled
electronic displays. ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS include projected images
or messages with these characteristics onto buildings or objects. ELECTRONIC
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS do not include official signs.
      SIGN, COMMERCIAL. Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, or other commercial activity.
      SIGN, DYNAMIC DISPLAY. Any characteristics of a sign that appear to have
movement or that appear to change, caused by any method other than physically
removing and replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent
movement or change is in the display, the sign structure or any other component
of the sign. This includes displays that incorporate technology or methods
allowing the sign face to change the image without having to physically or
mechanically replace the sign face or its components as well as any rotating,
revolving, moving, flashing, blinking or animated display and any display that
incorporates rotating panels, LED lights manipulated through digital input,
digital ink or any other method or technology that allows the sign face to
present a series of images or displays.
      SIGN, ELECTRONIC GRAPHIC DISPLAY. A sign or portion thereof that displays
electronic, static images, static graphics or static pictures, with or without
text information, defined by a small number of matrix elements using different
combinations of light emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber optics, light bulbs or
other illumination devices within the display area where the message change
sequence is accomplished immediately or by means of fade, repixalization or
dissolve modes. ELECTRONIC GRAPHIC DISPLAY SIGNS include computer programmable,
microprocessor controlled electronic or digital displays. ELECTRONIC GRAPHIC
DISPLAY SIGNS include projected images or messages with these characteristics
onto buildings or other objects.
      SIGN FACE. The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
      SIGN, FLASHING. A directly or indirectly illuminated sign or portion
thereof that exhibits changing light or color effect by any means, so as to
provide intermittent illumination that changes light intensity in sudden
transitory bursts and creates the illusion of intermittent flashing light by
streaming, graphic bursts showing movement, or any mode of lighting which
resembles zooming, twinkling or sparkling.
      SIGN, FREESTANDING. Any sign which has supporting framework that is
placed on, or anchored in, the ground and which is independent from any
building or other structure.
      SIGN, GROUND. Any freestanding sign with its sign face mounted on the
ground or mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign and which has a total
height not exceeding eight feet.
      SIGN, HEIGHT OF. The height of the sign shall be computed as the vertical
distance measured from the base of the sign at grade to the top of the highest
attached component of the sign.
      SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign which contains an element designed to emanate
artificial light internally or externally.
      SIGN, INCIDENTAL. A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the zone lot on which it is located, such as “no
parking,” “entrance,” “loading only,” “telephone,” and other similar
directives. No sign with a commercial message legible from a position off the
zone lot on which the sign is located shall be considered INCIDENTAL.
      SIGN, INTERIOR. A sign which is located within the interior of any
building, or within an enclosed lobby or court of any building, and a sign for
and located within the inner or outer body, court or entrance of any theater.
      SIGN, LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign and its support
structure lawfully erected prior to the effective date of this chapter which
fails to conform to the requirements of this chapter. A sign which was erected
in accordance with a variance granted prior to the adoption of this chapter and
which does not comply with this chapter shall be deemed to be a LEGAL
NONCONFORMING SIGN.
      SIGN, MARQUEE. Any building sign painted, mounted, constructed or
attached in any manner, on a marquee.
      SIGN, MONUMENT. Any freestanding sign with its sign face mounted on the
ground or mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign and which has a height
exceeding eight feet.
      SIGN, MULTIVISION. Any sign composed in whole or part of a series of
vertical or horizontal slats or cylinders that are capable of being rotated at
intervals so that partial rotation of the group of slats or cylinders produces
a different image and when properly functioning allows on a single sign
structure the display at any given time one of two or more images.
      SIGN, OFFICIAL. Signs of a public noncommercial nature including public
notification signs, safety signs, traffic signs, direction to public facilities
when erected by or on behalf of a public official or employee in the
performance of official duty.
      SIGN, OFF-PREMISE. Any sign that with a message that is related to an
establishment, merchandise, service, or entertainments which is not sold
produced, manufactured, or furnished at the property on which said sign is
located, e.g. billboards, or outdoor advertising.
      SIGN, ON-PREMISE. A sign which message is related to the premises or the
activity and use occurring on the premises on which the sign is located.
      SIGN, POLE. See PYLON SIGN.
      SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign which is manifestly designed to be transported,
including by trailer or on its own wheels, even though the wheels of such sign
may be removed and the remaining chassis or support is converted to another
sign or attached temporarily or permanently to the ground since this
characteristic is based on the design of such a sign.
      SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign which is affixed to a building or wall in such
a manner that its leading edge extends more than two feet beyond the surface or
such building or wall face.
      SIGN, PYLON. Any freestanding sign which has its supportive structure(s)
anchored in the ground and which has a sign face elevated above ground level by
pole(s) or beam(s) and with the area below the sign face open. PYLON SIGNS may
able be referred to as a “pole sign.”
      SIGN, READER BOARD. A sign on which copy is designated so that it can be
changed manually. This may include but is not limited to a panel on which
individual letters or pictorials are mounted, or displayed.
      SIGN, RESIDENTIAL. Any sign located in a district zoned for residential
uses that contains no commercial message except advertising for goods or
services legally offered on the premises where the sign is located, if offering
such service at such location conforms with all requirements of this chapter.
      SIGN, ROOF. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and above the roof
of a building, supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above
the highest portion of the roof.
      SIGN, ROOF INTEGRAL. Any building sign erected or constructed as an
integral or essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design,
so that no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the
roof and so that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by
a space of more than six inches.
      SIGN, ROTATING. A sign or portion of a sign which turns about on an axis.
      SIGN, SANDWICH BOARD. A freestanding temporary sign, with no moving parts
or flashing lights, no larger than eight square feet total sign size per side
(no taller than four feet from grade), displayed outside an establishment
during business hours. It is not intended as permanent business signage.
      SIGN, SHIMMERING. A sign which reflects an oscillating sometimes
distorted visual image.
      SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure including the supports, uprights, bracing
and framework which supports or is capable of supporting any sign.
      SIGNAGE, TOTAL SITE. The maximum permitted combined area of all
freestanding and wall identification signs allowed on a specific property.
      SIGN, SUSPENDED. Any building sign that is suspended from the underside
of a horizontal plane surface and is connected to this surface.
      SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign, balloon, banner, blimp, flag, free-standing
sign, pennant, poster, reader board, or advertising display which is intended
to be displayed for a limited period of time and that is not permanently fixed
to the land or a structure. TEMPORARY SIGNS may be constructed of paper, cloth,
canvas, cardboard or any other light and nondurable material. Signs other than
TEMPORARY SIGNS shall be considered permanent signs.
      SIGN, VIDEO DISPLAY. A sign that changes its message or background in a
manner or method of display characterized by motion or pictorial imagery, which
may or may not include text and depicts action or a special effect to imitate
movement, the presentation of pictorials or graphics displayed in a progression
of frames that gives the illusion of motion, including, but not limited to, the
illusion of moving objects, moving patterns or bands of light, or expanding or
contracting shapes, not including electronic changeable copy signs. VIDEO
DISPLAY SIGNS include projected images or messages with these characteristics
onto buildings or other objects.
      SIGN, WALL. Any building sign attached parallel to, but within two feet
of a wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the
limits of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by
such wall or building, and which displays only one sign surface.
      SIGN, WINDOW. Any building sign, pictures, symbol, or combination
thereof, designed to communicate information about an activity, business,
commodity, event, sale, or service, that is placed inside a window or upon the
window panes or glass and is visible from the exterior of the window.
      SIGNIFICANT TREE. A healthy deciduous hardwood tree measuring a minimum
of six caliper inches in diameter, a healthy softwood deciduous tree measuring
a minimum of 12 caliper inches, or a healthy coniferous tree measuring a
minimum of 12 feet in height.
      SITE. A plot or parcel of land, or combination of contiguous lots or
parcels of land, which are intended, designated, and/or approved to function as
an integrated unit.
      SOFTWOOD DECIDUOUS TREE. Includes cottonwood, poplars/aspen, box elder,
willow, silver maple and elm.
      SOLAR ACCESS. A view of the sun, from any point on the collector surface
that is not obscured by any vegetation, building, or object located on parcels
of land other than the parcel upon which the solar collector is located,
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. standard time on any day of the
year.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, or combination of devices, structure, or part
of a device or structure that transforms direct solar energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical or electrical energy.
      SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected
in the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). A device or structural design feature, a
substantial purpose of which is to provide daylight for interior lighting or
provide for the collection of storage and distribution of solar energy for
space heating or cooling, electricity generating, or water heating.
      SOLAR FARM. A commercial facility that converts sunlight into
electricity, whether by photovoltaics (PV), concentrating solar thermal devices
(CST), or other conversion technology, for the primary purpose of wholesale
sales of generated electricity. A SOLAR FARM is the primary land use for the
parcel on which it is located.
      SOLAR MOUNTING DEVICES. Racking, frames, or other devices that allow the
mounting of a solar collector onto a roof surface or ground.
      SOLAR SKYSPACE. The space between a solar energy collector and the sun,
which must be free of obstructions that shade the collector to an extent which
precludes its cost effective operation.
      SOLAR SKYSPACE EASEMENT. A right, expressed as an easement, covenant,
condition, or other property interest in any deed or other instrument executed
by or on behalf of any landowner, which protects the solar skyspace of an
actual, proposed, or designated solar energy collector at a described location
by forbidding or limited activities or land uses that interfere with access to
solar energy. The solar skyspace must be described as the three dimensional
space in which obstruction is prohibited or limited, or as the times of day
during which direct sunlight to the solar collector may not be obstructed, or
as a combination of the two methods.
      SOLAR STORAGE UNIT. A component of a solar energy device that is used to
store solar generated electricity for later use.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A term used for flood insurance purposes
synonymous with ONE HUNDRED (100) YEAR FLOODPLAIN.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation. addition,
placement or other improvement that occurred before the permit’s expiration
date. The ACTUAL START is either the first placement of permanent construction
of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling: nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways: nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
      STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is either
not recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the
site's soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available county soil
surveys or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Where specific information is not available, steep slopes are
lands having average slopes of three to one (3:1) or greater, as measured over
horizontal distances of 50 feet or more, that are not defined as bluffs.
      STORAGE, OUTDOOR. Storage of any property not fully enclosed in a
building or completely screened so as not to be visible from adjoining
properties or street rights-of-way.
      STORMWATER POND. These are ponds created for stormwater treatment. A
STORMWATER POND shall not include wetlands created to mitigate the loss of
other wetlands.
      STORY. The portion of a building including beneath the upper surface of a
floor and upper surface of floor next above, except that the topmost STORY
shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the
topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a basement or cellar, or unfinished underfloor space is more
than six feet above “grade” as defined herein for more than 50% of the total
perimeter or is more than 12 feet above “grade” as defined herein at any point,
such basement, cellar, or unused underfloor space shall be considered a STORY.
      STREET FRONTAGE. The proximity of a parcel of land to one or more
streets. An interior lot has one STREET FRONTAGE and corner lots and through
lots have two frontages.
      STRINGER. A line of string, rope, cording, or an equivalent to which is
attached a number of pennants.
      STRUCTURE. Anything which is built, constructed or erected; an edifice or
building of any kind; or any piece of work artificially built up and/or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or
permanent in character.
      STRUCTURE HEIGHT. A distance to be measured from the mean ground level to
the top of the structure.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
start of construction of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure. For the purpose of this chapter, HISTORIC STRUCTURE is as
defined in 44 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 59.1.
      SURFACE, IMPROVED. A surface that is either concrete, asphalt, or made of
pavers.
      SURFACE, SEMI-IMPROVED. A surface that is gravel, class five gravel,
crushed rock, or made of similar composite.
      SURFACE, UNIMPROVED. A surface that is grass, compacted earth, or
naturally occurring.
      TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure that is not permanently erected on a
site.
      TOWER. Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure, or combination
thereof taller than 15 feet, including supporting lines, cables, wires, braces,
and masts, intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an antenna,
meteorological device, or similar apparatus above grade (except amateur radio
antennas).
      TOWER, MULTI USER. A tower to which is attached the antennas of more than
one commercial wireless telecommunication service provider or governmental
entity.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation
uses.
      UNDUE HARDSHIP. The same as that term is defined in M.S. § 462.357, as
may be amended, meaning that the property in question cannot be put to a
reasonable use if used under the conditions allowed by this chapter, the plight
of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not caused by
the landowner and a variance, if granted, shall not alter the character of the
locality. Economic considerations alone shall not constitute an UNDUE HARDSHIP
if a reasonable use of the property exists under the terms of this chapter.
UNDUE HARDSHIP may also include inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar
energy systems.
      USABLE OPEN SPACE. That required portion of a lot at ground level, which
is graded, developed, landscaped and equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both, available and accessible to and
useable by all persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot or
a development project, and their guests. This space of minimum prescribed
dimensions shall not be devoted to service driveways or off-street parking
space and or loading berths but shall be usable for greenery, recreational
space and other leisure activities normally carried on outdoors.
      USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained,
and shall include any manner of performance of such activity with respect to
the performance standards of this chapter.
      USE, INCOMPATIBLE. A use which is incapable of direct association with
certain other uses because it is contradictory, incongruent or discordant.
      VARIANCE. A modification of or variation from the provisions of this
chapter consistent with the state enabling statute for municipalities, as
applied to a specific property and granted pursuant to the standards and
procedures of this chapter, except that a variance shall not be used for
modification of the allowable uses within a district and shall not allow uses
that are prohibited.
      VERTICAL GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM. A closed loop ground source heat
pump system where the loops or coils are installed vertically in one or more
borings below the land surface.
      VISIBLE. Capable of being seen by a person of normal visual acuity
(whether legible or not) without visual aid.
      WALL. Any structure which defines the exterior boundaries or courts of a
building or structure and which has a slope of 60 degrees or greater with the
horizontal plane.
      WAREHOUSING. The commercial storage of merchandise and personal property.
      WATERBODY. A body of water (lake, pond) or a depression of land or
expanded part of a river, or an enclosed basin that holds water and is
surrounded by land.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel or depression through which water flows year round
or intermittently, such as rivers, streams, or creeks.
      WETLANDS.
         (a)   HYDRIC SOILS. Soils that are saturated, flooded, or ponded long
enough during the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper
part.
         (b)   HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION. Macrophytic plant life growing in water,
soil or on a substrate that is at least periodically deficient in oxygen as a
result of excessive water content.
         (c)   WETLANDS. Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic
systems where the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is
covered by shallow water. For purposes of this chapter, WETLANDS must have the
following three attributes.
            1.   Have a predominance of hydric soils.
            2.   Are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions.
            3.   Under normal circumstances, support a prevalence of such
vegetation.
      WHOLESALING. A business engaged in selling to retailers or jobbers rather
than consumers.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). An electrical generating facility
comprised of one or more wind turbines and accessory facilities, including but
not limited to: power lines, transformers, substations, and metrological towers
that operate by converting the kinetic energy of wind into electrical energy.
The energy may be used on-site or distributed to the electrical grid.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), COMMERCIAL. A WECS of equal to or
greater than 40kW in total nameplate generating capacity.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), NON-COMMERCIAL. A WECS of less than
40kW in total name plate generating capacity.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, ROOF-MOUNTED. A WECS affixed to the roof
of a building or other structure.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), TOTAL HEIGHT. The highest point
above ground reached by a rotor tip or any other part of the WECS.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), TOWER. A vertical structure that
supports an electrical generator, rotor blades, and/or meteorological equipment
used in the operation of a WECS.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), TOWER HEIGHT. The total height of
the WECS exclusive of the rotor blades.
      WINERY. A winery operated by the owner of a Minnesota farm producing
table, sparkling or fortified wines from grapes, grape juice, other fruit bases
or honey with a majority of the ingredients produced on the premises.
      YARD. Any open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein.
      YARD ABUTTING A STREET, SIDE. A yard adjacent to a street which extends
along a side lot line between the front yard and rear property line. For the
purposes of determining the required setbacks, a SIDE YARD ABUTTING A STREET is
identified as a front yard in the dimensional standards of the district in
which the yard is located.
      YARD, FRONT. The area extending along the full length of a front lot line
between side lot lines and to the depth required in the yard regulations for
the district in which it is located. In the case of a corner lot abutting one
or more streets, both yards shall be considered FRONT YARDS unless a specific
standard is established by this chapter for a side yard of a corner lot
abutting a public right-of-way.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot lying
between the rear lot line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
      YARD, REQUIRED. That distance specified in the yard requirements
pertaining to setbacks. SETBACKS and REQUIRED YARDS are used interchangeably.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line
of the principal building and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator of the City of Mayer until
otherwise designated by the City Council.
      ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas of the city (as delineated on the
zoning map) set aside for specific uses with specific regulations and
provisions for use and development as defined by this chapter.
      ZONING DISTRICT OVERLAY. A zoning district containing regulations
superimposed upon other zoning district regulations and superseding the
underlying zoning district use regulations.
      ZONING DISTRICT UNDERLYING (BASE). All zoning districts except overlay
zoning districts.
      ZONING MAP. The map setting forth the boundaries of the zoning districts
of the City of Mayer which map is a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 152.010 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for
deviations from the literal provisions of this chapter in instances where their
strict enforcement would cause practical difficulties because of circumstances
unique to the individual property under consideration, and to grant such
variances only when it is demonstrated that such actions will be in keeping
with the spirit and intent of this chapter.
   (B)   Board of Appeals and Adjustments. The City Council of the City of
Mayer shall act as the Board of Appeals and Adjustments for the city and shall
have the powers granted under M.S. §§ 462.357, subd. 6, and 462.359, subd. 4,
as they may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Review criteria. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments shall not
approve any variance request unless they find failure to grant the variance
will result in practical difficulties. PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES means that the
property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable manner not
permitted by this chapter. Economic considerations alone do not constitute
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES include, but are not limited to,
inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems. The following
criteria must also be met:
      (1)   That the variance would be consistent with the comprehensive plan.
      (2)   That the variance would be in harmony with the general purposes and
intent of this chapter.
      (3)   That the plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to
the property not created by the landowner.
      (4)   That the purpose of the variance is not exclusively economic
considerations.
      (5)   That the granting of the variance will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood in which the parcel of land is located.
      (6)   That the requested variance is the minimum action required to
eliminate the practical difficulty.
      (7)   Variances may not be approved for any use that is not allowed under
this chapter for property in the zone where the affected person’s land is
located.
   (D)   Procedures. Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, an application for a variance
shall be approved or denied within 60 days from the date of its official and
complete submission unless extended by the city pursuant to statute or a time
waiver is granted by the applicant. Additional city requirements are as
follows:
      (1)   Processing.
         (a)   Request for a variance or appeal shall be filed with the City
Administrator on an official application form. Such application shall be
accompanied by a fee as established by City Council ordinance. This fee shall
not be refunded. Unless modified by the City Administrator, such application
shall also be accompanied by detailed written and graphic materials necessary
for the explanation of the request, and a list of property owners located
within 350 feet of the subject property obtained from and certified by an
abstract company.
         (b)   The application shall be considered as being officially
submitted complete when the applicant has complied with all the specified
informational requirements, which shall include the following:
            1.   A written description of the request for the variance,
including an explanation of compliance with the variance criteria set forth in
this section.
            2.   Supporting materials, as outlined in §
152.015(G) of this chapter, as determined by the City Administrator as
applicable to be necessary for the complete and clear definition and
understanding of the request.
         (c)   In cases when an application is judged to be incomplete, the
City Administrator or their designee shall notify the applicant, in writing, of
what information must be provided for the application to be deemed complete
within 15 business days from the date of submission.
         (d)   Failure of a property owner to receive notice shall not
invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this chapter.
         (e)   The City Administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff
persons to prepare technical reports where appropriate, and provide general
assistance in preparing a recommendation on the action to the Board of Appeals
and Adjustments.
         (f)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority
to request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors. The information is to be declared
necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent
sections of this chapter. Failure of the applicant to supply all necessary
supportive information may be grounds for denial of the request.
         (g)   Unless excused by the Planning Commission Chair, the applicant
or a representative thereof shall appear before the Planning Commission to
answer questions concerning the proposed variance.
         (h)   The Planning Commission shall make findings of fact and
recommend approval or denial of the request. The Planning Commission’s
recommendation and the city staff’s report shall be presented to the Board of
Appeals and Adjustments, and shall be entered in and made part of the permanent
written record of the Board of Appeals and Adjustments meeting.
         (i)   The Board of Appeals and Adjustments shall not act upon the
variance until the Planning Commission has held a public hearing on the
request. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments shall act upon the request within
60 days from the date of submission, unless an extension has been provided,
pursuant to M.S. § 15.99.
         (j)   Subject to limitations of M.S. § 15.99, if, upon receiving said
reports and recommendations of the Planning Commission and city staff, the
Board of Appeals and Adjustments finds that specific inconsistencies exist in
the review process and thus the final determination of the Board of Appeals and
Adjustments may differ from that of the Planning Commission, the Board of
Appeals and Adjustments may, before taking final action, refer the matter back
to the Planning Commission for further consideration. The Board of Appeals and
Adjustments shall provide the Planning Commission with a written statement
detailing the specific reasons for referral. This procedure shall be followed
only one time on a singular action.
         (k)   In granting any variance under the provisions of this section,
the Board of Appeals and Adjustments shall designate such conditions in
connection therewith as will, in its opinion, secure substantially the
objectives of the regulations or provisions to which the adjustment or variance
is granted, as to light, air, and the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and general welfare.
         (l)   The City Administrator shall serve a copy of the final order of
the Board of Appeals and Adjustments upon the applicant by mail.
      (2)   All decisions made by the city regarding a variance shall be final,
except that any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal per §
152.011 of this chapter.
      (3)   Whenever an application for a variance has been considered and
denied by the Board of Appeals and Adjustments, a similar application for a
variance affecting substantially the same property shall not be considered
again by the Planning Commission or Board of Appeals and Adjustments for at
least six months from the date of its denial; and a subsequent application
affecting substantially the same property shall likewise not be considered
again by the Planning Commission or Board of Appeals and Adjustments for an
additional six months from the date of the second denial unless a decision to
reconsider such matter is made by a four-fifths vote of the full Board of
Appeals and Adjustments.
   (E)   Expiration. Unless the Board of Appeals and Adjustments specifically
approves a different time when action is officially taken on the request,
approvals which have been issued under the provisions of this section shall
expire without further action by the Planning Commission or the Board of
Appeals and Adjustments, unless the applicant commences the authorized use or
improvement within one year of the date the variance is issued; or, unless
before the expiration of the one-year period; the applicant shall apply for an
extension thereof by completing and submitting a request for extension,
including the renewal fee as established by City Council ordinance. The request
for extension shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to complete or
utilize the approval permitted in the variance. On matters involving a major
variance approval, should a second extension of time or any extension of time
longer than one year be requested by the applicant, it shall be presented to
the Planning Commission for a recommendation and to the Board of Appeals and
Adjustments for a decision.
   (F)   Certification of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for a
variance, the applicant shall provide certification to the city that there are
no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or city utility
fees due upon the parcel of land to which the variance application relates.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.011 APPEALS.
   (A)   Board of Appeals and Adjustments. The City Council of the City of
Mayer shall act as the Board of Appeals and Adjustments for the city and shall
have the powers granted under M.S. §§ 462.357, subd. 6, and 462.359, subd. 4,
as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Applicability. An appeal shall only be applicable to an administrative
order, requirement or interpretation of intent of provisions of this chapter.
Opinions and evaluations as they pertain to the impact or result of a request
are not subject to the appeal procedure.
   (C)   Filing. An appeal from the action of an administrative officer of the
city shall be filed by the property owner or their agent with the City
Administrator within ten days after the making of the order, requirement, or
interpretation being appealed.
   (D)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings and the
furtherance of the action being appealed unless it is certified to the Board of
Appeals and Adjustments after the notice of appeal is filed, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate a stay would cause imminent peril to life and
property.
   (E)   Procedure. The procedure for making an appeal shall be as follows:
      (1)   The property owner or their agent shall file with the City
Administrator a notice of appeal stating the specific grounds upon which the
appeal is made. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as established by
City Council ordinance. In cases where the application is judged to be
incomplete, the City Administrator or their designee shall notify the
applicant, in writing, of what information must be provided for the application
to be deemed complete within 15 business days of the date of submission.
      (2)   The City Administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff persons
to prepare technical reports when appropriate and shall provide general
assistance in preparing a recommendation on the action to the Board of Appeals
and Adjustments.
      (3)   Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, the Board of Appeals and Adjustments
shall make its decision by resolution within 60 days from the date on which a
completed application is filed.
      (4)   The City Administrator shall serve a copy of the final order of the
Board of Appeals and Adjustments upon the applicant by mail.
      (5)   All decisions made by the city regarding an appeal shall be final,
except that any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal within 30 days
after delivery of the decision to the appellant, to the District Court in
Carver County. Any person seeking judicial review under this chapter must serve
the city and all necessary parties, including any landowners, within the 30-day
period defined above.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.012 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS (CUP).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of a conditional use permit is to
provide the city with a reasonable degree of discretion in determining the
suitability of certain designated uses upon the general welfare, public health
and safety. In making this determination, whether or not the conditional use is
to be allowed, the city may consider the nature of the adjoining land or
buildings, the effect upon traffic into and from the premises, or on any
adjoining roads, and all other or further factors as the city shall deem a
prerequisite of consideration in determining the effect of the use on the
general welfare, public health and safety.
   (B)   Procedures. Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, an application for a conditional
use permit shall be approved or denied within 60 days from the date of its
official and complete submission unless extended by the city pursuant to
statute or a time waiver is granted by the applicant. Additional city
requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Request for conditional use permits, as provided within this
section, shall be filed with the City Administrator on an official application
form. Unless modified by the City Administrator, such application shall be
accompanied by a fee as provided for by City Council ordinance. The request
shall be considered as being officially submitted when all the information
requirements are satisfied. In cases where an application is judged to be
incomplete, the City Administrator shall notify the applicant, in writing, of
what information must be provided for the application to be deemed complete
within 15 business days from the date of submission.
      (2)   Upon receipt of said application, the City Clerk shall set a public
hearing following proper hearing notification. The Planning Commission shall
conduct the hearing, report its findings and make recommendations to the City
Council. Notice of the hearing shall consist of a legal property description,
description of request and property location, and be published in the official
newspaper at least ten days prior to the hearing. Written notification of the
hearing shall be mailed at least ten days prior to all owners of land within
350 feet of the boundary of the property in question.
      (3)   Failure of a property owner to receive the notice shall not
invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this section.
      (4)   The City Administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff persons
to prepare technical reports where appropriate, and provide general assistance
in preparing a recommendation on the action to the City Council.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall consider possible effects of the
proposed use with its judgment based upon, but not limited to, the following
factors:
         (a)   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the
specific policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with
the official city comprehensive plan.
         (b)   The proposed use is or will be compatible with present and
future land uses of the area.
         (c)   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards
contained in this code.
         (d)   The proposed use can be accommodated with existing public
services and will not overburden the city’s service capacity.
         (e)   Traffic generation by the proposed use is within capabilities of
streets serving the property.
      (6)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors. The information is to be declared
necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent
sections of this chapter. Failure on the part of the applicant to supply all
necessary supportive information may be grounds for denial of the request.
      (7)   Unless excused by the Planning Commission chair, the applicant or a
representative thereof shall appear before the Planning Commission in order to
answer questions concerning the proposed request.
      (8)   The Planning Commission shall make findings of fact and recommend
such actions or conditions relating to the request as they deem necessary to
carry out the intent and purpose of this section. Such recommendation shall be
in writing and accompanied by the report and recommendation of the city staff,
and shall be entered in and made part of the permanent written record of the
City Council meeting.
      (9)   The City Council shall not grant a conditional use permit until the
Planning Commission has held a public hearing on the request. The City Council
shall act upon the conditional use permit within 60 days from the date of
submission of a complete application, unless an extension has been provided,
pursuant to M.S. § 15.99.
      (10)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and the city staff, the City Council shall make recorded findings of
fact and may impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
      (11)   Subject to limitations of M.S. § 15.99, if, upon receiving the
report and recommendations of the Planning Commission and city staff, the City
Council finds that specific inconsistencies exist in the review process and
thus the final recommendation of the City Council may differ from that of the
Planning Commission, the City Council may, before taking final action, refer
the matter back to the Planning Commission for further consideration. The City
Council shall provide the Planning Commission with a written statement
detailing the specific reasons for referral. This procedure shall be followed
only one time on a singular action.
      (12)   Approval of a request shall require passage by a majority vote of
the City Council.
      (13)   All decisions made by the city regarding a conditional use permit
shall be final, except that any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal
per §
152.011 of this chapter.
      (14)   Whenever an application for a conditional use permit has been
considered and denied by the City Council, a similar application for the
conditional use permit affecting substantially the same property shall not be
considered again by the Planning Commission or City Council for at least six
months from the date of its denial; and a subsequent application affecting
substantially the same property shall likewise not be considered again by the
Planning Commission or City Council for an additional six months from the date
of the second denial unless a decision to reconsider such matter is made by a
majority vote of the City Council.
   (C)   Information requirement. The information required for all conditional
use permit applications shall be as specified in §
152.015(G) of this chapter.
   (D)   General performance standards. In reviewing applications for
conditional use permits, the Planning Commission and the City Council may
attach whatever reasonable conditions they deem necessary to mitigate
anticipated adverse impacts associated with these uses, to protect the value of
other property within the district, and to achieve the goals and objectives of
the comprehensive plan. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to,
the following:
      (1)   The use and the site in question shall be served by a street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate the type and volume of traffic which would
be generated and adequate right of way shall be provided.
      (2)   The site design for access and parking shall minimize internal as
well as external traffic conflicts and shall be in compliance with §
152.067 of this chapter.
      (3)   If applicable, a pedestrian circulation system shall be clearly
defined and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachment
by parked or moving vehicles.
      (4)   Adequate off-street parking and off-street loading shall be
provided in compliance with §§
152.067 and
152.068, both of this chapter.
      (5)   Loading areas and drive-up facilities shall be positioned so as to
minimize internal site access problems and maneuvering conflicts, to avoid
visual or noise impacts on any “adjacent” residential use or district, and
provided in compliance with §
152.68 of this chapter.
      (6)   Whenever a nonresidential use is adjacent to a residential use or
district, a buffer area with screening and landscaping shall be provided in
compliance with §§
152.055,
152.056 and
152.057, all of this chapter.
      (7)   General site screening and landscaping shall be provided in
compliance with §§
152.055,
152.056 and §
152.057, all of this chapter.
      (8)   All exterior lighting shall be so directed so as not to cast glare
toward or onto the public right of way or neighboring residential uses or
districts, and shall be in compliance with §
152.030 of this chapter.
      (9)   Potential exterior noise generated by the use shall be identified
and mitigation measures as may be necessary shall be imposed to ensure
compliance with §
152.034 of this chapter.
      (10)   The site drainage system shall be subject to the review and
approval of the City Engineer.
      (11)   The architectural appearance and functional design of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing or potential buildings and
area so as to cause a blighting influence. All sides of the principal and
accessory structures are to have essentially the same or coordinated,
harmonious exterior finish materials and treatment.
      (12)   Provisions shall be made for daily litter control, an interior
location for recycling, and trash handling and storage or an outdoor, enclosed
receptacle area shall be provided in compliance with §
152.064 of this chapter.
      (13)   All signs and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with §
152.071 of this chapter.
      (14)   The use and site shall be in compliance with any federal, state or
county law or regulation that is applicable and any related permits shall be
obtained and documented to the city.
      (15)   Any applicable business licenses mandated by this code are
approved and obtained.
      (16)   The hours of operation may be restricted when there is judged to
be an incompatibility with a residential use or district.
      (17)   The use complies with all applicable performance standards of the
zoning district in which it is located and where applicable.
   (E)   Annual review/revocation. The city may require the annual review of
any conditional use permit to ensure that its conditions are being complied
with. Failure to comply with any condition set forth in a conditional use
permit shall constitute a violation of this section and shall be cause for the
revocation of the conditional use permit. The Planning Commission may
recommend, and the City Council may direct, the revocation of any conditional
use permit for cause upon determination that the authorized conditional use is
not in conformance with the conditions of the permit or is in continued
violation of this chapter, Mayer Code of Ordinances, or other applicable
regulations. The City Council or Planning Commission shall initiate an
application and the City Administrator shall notify the responsible person that
they have an opportunity to show cause why the permit should not be revoked.
The application shall be processed and considered pursuant to division (B)
above. The City Administrator shall provide the responsible person a copy of
the proceedings and findings of the Planning Commission and City Council.
   (F)   Expiration. Unless the City Council specifically approves a different
time when action is officially taken on the request, conditional use permits
which have been issued under the provisions of this section shall expire
without further action by the Planning Commission or the City Council, unless
the applicant commences the authorized use within one year of the date the
conditional use permit is issued; or, unless before the expiration of the one
year period; the applicant shall apply for an extension thereof by completing
and submitting a request for extension, including the renewal fee as
established by City Council ordinance. The request for extension shall state
facts showing a good faith attempt to complete or utilize the use permitted in
the conditional use permit. A request for an extension not exceeding one year
shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Administrator. Should a
second extension of time or any extension of time longer than one year be
requested by the applicant, it shall be presented to the Planning Commission
for a recommendation and to the City Council for a decision.
   (G)   Permit modifications. Holders of a conditional use permit may propose
modifications to the permit at any time. No changes in the approved plans or
scope of the conditional use shall, however, be undertaken without prior
approval of those changes by the city. Requests for permit modifications shall
be processed according to division (B) above and shall be subject to all
requirements and standards of this chapter.
   (H)   Certification of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for a
conditional use permit, the applicant shall provide certification to the city
that there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or
city utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the conditional use
permit application relates.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.013 INTERIM USE PERMITS (IUP).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose and intent of allowing interim uses
is:
      (1)   To allow a use for a temporary period of time until a permanent
location is obtained or while the permanent location is under construction.
      (2)   To allow a use that is presently judged acceptable by the City
Council, but that with anticipated development or redevelopment, will not be
acceptable in the future or will be replaced in the future by a permitted or
conditional use allowed within the respective district.
      (3)   To allow a use which is reflective of anticipated long-range change
to an area and which is in compliance with the comprehensive plan provided that
said use maintains harmony and compatibility with surrounding uses and is in
keeping with the architectural character and design standards of existing uses
and development.
      (4)   To allow a use that is presently judged to be acceptable by the
City Council based on the characteristics and circumstances of the specific
location, property, or use for which the interim use permit is proposed such
that the use will be consistent with the comprehensive plan, complies with the
requirements of this chapter, and is compatible with surrounding land uses,
which may be effected as a result of any change to the nature of the interim
use or existing uses and development in the area.
   (B)   Procedure. Uses defined as “interim uses” shall be processed according
to the standards and procedures for a conditional use permit as established by
§
152.012(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   General standards. An interim use shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Meet the standards of a conditional use permit set forth in §
152.012(B)(5) of this chapter.
      (2)   Conform to the applicable general performance standards of §
152.012(D) of this chapter.
      (3)   The use is allowed as an interim use in the respective zoning
district.
      (4)   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified
with certainty.
      (5)   The use will not impose additional unreasonable costs on the
public.
      (6)   The user agrees to any conditions that the City Council deems
appropriate for permission of the use.
   (D)   Conditions. The city may attach conditions to approval of a permit to
mitigate anticipated adverse impacts associated with the use, to ensure
compliance with the standards of approval, to protect the value of other
property, and to achieve the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan.
   (E)   Annual review/revocation. The Planning Commission may require the
annual review of any interim use permit to ensure that its conditions are being
complied with. Failure to comply with any condition set forth in an interim use
permit shall constitute a violation of this section and shall be cause for the
revocation of the interim use permit. The Planning Commission may recommend,
and the City Council may direct, the revocation of any interim use permit for
cause upon determination that the authorized interim use is not in conformance
with the conditions of the permit or is in continued violation of this chapter,
Mayer Code of Ordinances, or other applicable regulations. The City Council or
Planning Commission shall initiate an application and the City Administrator
shall notify the responsible person that they have an opportunity to show cause
why the permit should not be revoked. The application shall be processed and
considered pursuant to §
152.012(B) of this chapter. The City Administrator shall provide the
responsible person a copy of the proceedings and findings of the Planning
Commission and City Council.
   (F)   Termination. All interim use permits shall terminate on the happening
of any of the following events, whichever first occurs:
      (1)   The termination date stated in the permit.
      (2)   A violation of the conditions under which the permit was issued.
      (3)   A change in the city’s zoning regulations that renders the use
nonconforming.
   (G)   Certification of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for an
interim use permit, the applicant shall provide certification to the city that
there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or city
utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the interim use permit
application relates.
   (H)   Expiration. Unless the City Council specifically approves a different
time when action is officially taken on the request, permits which have been
issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire without further action
by the Planning Commission or the City Council, unless the applicant commences
the authorized use within one year of the date the interim use permit is
issued; or, unless before the expiration of the one year period; the applicant
shall apply for an extension thereof by completing and submitting a request for
extension, including the renewal fee as established by City Council ordinance.
The request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to
complete or utilize the use permitted in the interim use permit. A request for
an extension not exceeding one year shall be subject to the review and approval
of the City Administrator. Should a second extension of time or any extension
of time longer than one year be requested by the applicant, it shall be
presented to the Planning Commission for a recommendation and to the City
Council for a decision.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.014 AMENDMENT, TEXT & MAP (REZONING).
   (A)   The City Council or Planning Commission may, upon their own motion,
initiate a request to amend the text or the district boundaries of this
chapter. The procedural requirements of this chapter shall not apply to such
proposed amendments except to the extent required by state statute. Any person
owning real estate within the city may initiate a request to amend the district
boundaries or text of this chapter so as to affect the real estate.
   (B)   Procedure. Pursuant to M.S. §
15.99, an application for an amendment shall be approved or denied within 60
days from the date of its official and complete submission unless extended by
the city pursuant to statute or a time waiver is granted by the applicant.
Additional city requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Request for text and map amendments to the zoning ordinance shall
be filed with the City Administrator on an official application form. Such
application shall be accompanied by a fee as provided by City Council
ordinance. The request shall be considered as being officially submitted when
all the information requirements are complied with as determined by the City
Administrator. In cases when an application is judged to be incomplete, the
City Administrator or their designee shall notify the applicant, in writing, of
what information must be provided for the application to be deemed complete
within 15 business days from the date of submission.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a complete application, as determined by staff
review, and following preliminary staff analysis of the application and
request, the City Clerk, when appropriate, shall set a public hearing following
proper hearing notification. The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing,
report its findings and make recommendations to the City Council. Notice of the
hearing shall consist of a legal property description, description of request
and a general description of the property location, and be published in the
official newspaper at least ten days prior to the hearing. Written notification
of the hearing shall be mailed at least ten days prior to all owners of land
within 350 feet of the boundary of the property in question, if notification is
required by state statute.
      (3)   Failure of a property owner to receive said notice shall not
invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this chapter.
      (4)   The City Administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff persons
to prepare technical reports where appropriate, and provide general assistance
in preparing a recommendation of action to the City Council.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall consider possible effects of the
proposed amendment. Its judgment shall be based upon, but not limited to, the
following factors:
         (a)   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the
specific policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with
the official city comprehensive plan.
         (b)   The proposed use is or will be compatible with present and
future land uses of the area.
         (c)   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards
contained in this code.
         (d)   The proposed use can be accommodated with existing public
services and will not overburden the city’s service capacity.
         (e)   Traffic generation by the proposed use is within capabilities of
streets serving the property.
      (6)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors. The information is to be declared
necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent
sections of this chapter. Failure on the part of the applicant to apply all
necessary supportive information may be grounds for denial of the request.
      (7)   Unless excused by the Planning Commission chair, the applicant or a
representative thereof shall appear before the Planning Commission in order to
answer questions concerning the proposed request.
      (8)   The Planning Commission shall, as appropriate, make findings of
fact and shall recommend approval or denial of the request. Such recommendation
shall be accompanied by the report and recommendation of the city staff.
      (9)   The City Council shall not act upon an amendment until the Planning
Commission has held a public hearing on the request. The City Council shall act
upon the amendment within 60 days from the date of submission of a complete
application, unless an extension has been provided, pursuant to M.S. § 15.99.
      (10)   Subject to limitations of M.S. § 15.99, if, upon receiving the
reports and recommendations of the Planning Commission and city staff, the City
Council finds that specific inconsistencies exist in the review process and
thus the final recommendation of the City Council may differ from that of the
Planning Commission, the City Council may, before taking final action, refer
the matter back to the Planning Commission for further consideration. The City
Council shall provide the Planning Commission with a written statement
detailing the specific reasons for referral. This procedure shall be followed
only one time on a singular action.
      (11)   Approval of an amendment shall require a majority vote of all
members of the City Council. Amendments which change all or part of the
existing classification of a zoning district from residential to either
commercial or industrial require a two-thirds majority vote of all the members
of the City Council.
      (12)   The amendment shall not become effective until such time as the
City Council approves an ordinance reflecting the amendment.
      (13)   All decisions made by the city regarding an amendment shall be
final, except that any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal per §
152.011 of this chapter.
      (14)   Whenever an application for an amendment has been considered and
denied by the City Council, a similar application for the amendment affecting
substantially the same property shall not be considered again by the Planning
Commission or City Council for at least six months from the date of its denial;
and a subsequent application affecting substantially the same property shall
likewise not be considered again by the Planning Commission or City Council for
an additional six months from the date of the second denial unless a decision
to reconsider such matter is made by not less than four-fifths vote of the full
City Council.
   (C)   Certification of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for
rezoning, the applicant shall provide certification to the city that there are
no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or city utility
fees due upon the parcel of land to which the rezoning application relates.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.015 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a formal site
plan review procedure and provide regulations pertaining to the enforcement of
site design standards consistent with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Exceptions to review. Except in those cases specifically cited within
this chapter, the following shall be excepted from the foregoing requirements
of this section:
      (1)   Agricultural uses and developments.
      (2)   Single-family detached dwellings.
      (3)   Two-family attached dwellings.
   (C)   Sketch plan.
      (1)   Prior to the formulation of a site plan, applicants may present a
sketch plan to the City Administrator prior to filing of a formal application.
The plan shall be conceptual but shall be drawn to scale with topography of a
contour interval not greater than two feet and may include the following:
         (a)   The proposed site with reference to existing development,
topography, and drainage conditions on adjacent properties, at least to within
200 feet.
         (b)   Natural features.
         (c)   General location of existing and proposed structures including
signs.
         (d)   Tentative access, circulation and street arrangements, both
public and private.
         (e)   Amenities to be provided such as recreational areas, open space,
walkways, landscaping, and the like.
         (f)   General location of parking areas.
         (g)   Proposed public sanitary sewer, water and storm drainage.
         (h)   Other items as may be deemed necessary by the City
Administrator.
      (2)   Any opinions or comments provided to the applicant by the City
Administrator in relation to the sketch plan shall be considered advisory only
and shall not constitute a binding decision on the request.
   (D)   Procedure. Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, an application for site plan
approval shall be approved or denied within 60 days from the date of its
official and complete submission unless extended by the city pursuant to
statute or a time waiver is granted by the applicant. Additional city
requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Filing of request. Request for site plan approval, as provided
within this chapter, shall be filed with the City Administrator on an official
application form. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee as established
by City Council ordinance. Such application shall also be accompanied by
detailed written and graphic materials, the number and size as prescribed by
the City Administrator, fully explaining the proposed change, development, or
use. The request shall be considered as being officially submitted and complete
when the applicant has complied with all specified information requirements. In
cases where an application is judged to be incomplete, the City Administrator
or their designee shall notify the applicant, in writing, of what information
must be provided for the application to be deemed complete within 15 business
days of the date of submission.
      (2)   Proof of ownership or authorization. The applicant shall supply
proof of title and the legal description of the property for which the site
plan approval is requested, and if needed, an abstract of title and as
applicable supply documented authorization from the owner(s) of the property in
question to proceed with the requested site plan application.
      (3)   Technical reports. The City Administrator shall instruct the
appropriate staff persons to prepare technical reports where appropriate, and
provide general assistance in conducting an evaluation of the request.
      (4)   Additional information. City staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert assistance with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors. The information is to be declared
necessary to evaluate the request and/or to establish performance conditions in
relation to all pertinent sections of this chapter. Failure on the part of the
applicant to supply all necessary supportive information may be grounds for
denial of the request.
      (5)   Meeting With City Administrator and/or staff. The applicant or a
representative thereof shall meet with the City Administrator and/or city staff
in order to present information and answer questions concerning the proposed
requests.
      (6)   The Planning Commission shall consider possible effects of the
proposed use with its judgment.
      (7)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors. The information is to be declared
necessary to establish in relation to all pertinent sections of this chapter.
Failure on the part of the applicant to supply all necessary supportive
information may be grounds for denial of the request.
      (8)   Unless excused by the Planning Commission chair, the applicant or a
representative thereof shall appear before the Planning Commission in order to
answer questions concerning the proposed request.
      (9)   The Planning Commission shall make findings of fact and recommend
such actions or conditions relating to the request as they deem necessary to
carry out the intent and purpose of this section. Such recommendation shall be
in writing and accompanied by the report and recommendation of the city staff,
and shall be entered in and made part of the permanent written record of the
City Council meeting.
      (10)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and the city staff, the City Council shall make recorded findings of
fact and may impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
      (11)   Subject to limitations of M.S. § 15.99, if, upon receiving the
report and recommendations of the Planning Commission and city staff, the City
Council finds that specific inconsistencies exist in the review process and
thus the final recommendation of the City Council may differ from that of the
Planning Commission, the City Council may, before taking final action, refer
the matter back to the Planning Commission for further consideration. The City
Council shall provide the Planning Commission with a written statement
detailing the specific reasons for referral. This procedure shall be followed
only one time on a singular action.
      (12)   Approval of a request shall require passage by a majority vote of
the City Council.
      (13)   All decisions made by the city regarding a site plan review shall
be final, except that any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal per §
152.011 of this chapter.
      (14)   Whenever an application for a site plan review has been considered
and denied by the City Council, a similar application for the site plan review
affecting substantially the same property shall not be considered again by the
Planning Commission or City Council for at least six months from the date of
its denial; and a subsequent application affecting substantially the same
property shall likewise not be considered again by the Planning Commission or
City Council for an additional six months from the date of the second denial
unless a decision to reconsider such matter is made by a majority vote of the
City Council.
   (E)   Certification of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for a
site plan review, the applicant shall provide certification to the city that
there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or city
utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the site plan review
application relates.
   (F)   Evaluation criteria. The City Administrator shall evaluate the
proposed site plan based upon compliance with the city comprehensive plan,
provisions of this chapter, and other applicable sections of this code.
   (G)   Information requirement. The information required for all site plan
applications generally consists of the following items, and shall be submitted
unless waived, modified or reduced by the City Administrator, if it is found
that the absence of such information will not inhibit the city’s ability to
evaluate the compliance of the proposed site plan application with the
standards of this chapter and any other requirements of the code for the city.
      (1)   Site boundaries, buildings, structures and other improvements shall
be identified on site with a current certificate of survey, prepared and signed
by a Minnesota licensed land surveyor, depicting the following:
         (a)   Scale of plan (engineering scale only), at one inch equals fifty
feet (1" = 50') or less.
         (b)   North point indication.
         (c)   Existing boundaries with lot dimension and area.
         (d)   Existing site improvements.
         (e)   All encroachments.
         (f)   Easements of record.
         (g)   Legal description of the property.
         (h)   Ponds, lakes, springs, rivers or other waterways bordering on or
running through the subject property.
      (2)   A site plan utilizing a copy of the current certificate of survey
as a base for the site in question, depicting the following:
         (a)   Name and address of developer/owner.
         (b)   Name and address of architect/designer.
         (c)   Date of plan preparation.
         (d)   Dates and description of all revisions.
         (e)   Name of project or development.
         (f)   All proposed improvements, including:
            1.   Required and proposed setbacks.
            2.   Location, setback and dimensions of all proposed buildings and
structures.
            3.   Location of all adjacent buildings located within 100 feet of
the exterior boundaries of the property in question.
            4.   Location, number, dimensions, and setbacks of proposed parking
spaces and drive aisles.
            5.   Location, number, and dimensions of proposed loading spaces.
            6.   Location, width, and setbacks of all curb cuts and driveways.
            7.   Vehicular circulation.
            8.   Sidewalks, walkways, trails.
            9.   Location and type of all proposed lighting, including details
of all proposed fixtures.
            10.   Location of recreation and service areas.
            11.   Location of rooftop equipment and proposed screening.
            12.   Provisions for storage and disposal of waste, garbage, and
recyclables, including details for screening exterior trash/recycling
enclosures.
            13.   Location, sizing, and type of water and sewer system mains
and proposed service connections.
      (3)   Grading/stormwater drainage plan, utilizing a copy of the current
certificate of survey as a base for the site in question, prepared and signed
by a Minnesota licensed engineer, depicting the following:
         (a)   Existing contours at two-foot intervals (may be prepared by a
Minnesota licensed surveyor).
         (b)   Proposed grade elevations at two-foot maximum intervals.
         (c)   Drainage plan, including the configuration of drainage areas and
calculations.
         (d)   Storm sewer, catch basins, invert elevations, type of castings,
and type of materials.
         (e)   Spot elevations (may be prepared by a Minnesota licensed
surveyor).
         (f)   Proposed driveway grades.
         (g)   Surface water ponding and treatment areas.
         (h)   Erosion control measures.
      (4)   Landscaping plan, utilizing a copy of the current certificate of
survey as a base for the site in question, depicting the following:
         (a)   Planting schedule (table) containing:
            1.   Symbols.
            2.   Quantities.
            3.   Common names.
            4.   Botanical names.
            5.   Sizes of plant material.
            6.   Root specification (bare root, balled and burlapped, potted,
and the like).
            7.   Special planting instructions.
         (b)   Location, type and size of all existing significant trees to be
removed or preserved.
         (c)   Planting detail (show all species to scale at normal mature
crown diameter or spread for local hardiness zone).
         (d)   Typical sections with details of fences, tie walls, planter
boxes, tot lots, picnic areas, berms and the like.
         (e)   Typical sections with details of landscape islands, planter
beds, and foundation plantings with identification of materials used.
         (f)   Note indicating how disturbed soil areas will be restored
through the use of sodding, seeding, or other techniques.
         (g)   Delineation of both sodded and seeded areas with respective
areas in square feet.
         (h)   Coverage plan for underground irrigation system, if any.
         (i)   Where landscape or manmade materials are used to provide
screening from adjacent and neighboring properties, a cross-through section
shall be provided showing the perspective of the site from the neighboring
property at the property line elevation.
         (j)   Other existing or proposed conditions which could be expected to
affect landscaping.
      (5)   Other plans and information as required by the City Administrator
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Architectural elevations of all principal and accessory
buildings (type, color, and materials used in all external surfaces).
         (b)   “Typical” floor plan and “typical” room plan drawn to scale with
a summary of square footage for each use or activity.
         (c)   Fire protection plan.
         (d)   Type, location and size (area and height) of all signs to be
erected upon the property in question.
         (e)   Lighting plan.
   (H)   Plan modifications. An amended site plan involving major changes as
determined by the City Administrator shall be applied for and administered as
required for a new site plan.
   (I)   Lapse of approval.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified by the City Administrator, the site plan
approval shall become null and void one year after the date of approval, unless
the property owner or applicant has substantially started the construction of
any building, structure, addition or alteration, or use requested as part of
the approved plan. The property owner or applicant shall have the right to
submit an application for time extension in accordance with this section.
      (2)   In making its determination on whether an applicant has made a good
faith attempt to utilize the site plan approval, the City Administrator shall
consider such factors as the type, design, and size of the proposed
construction, any applicable restrictions on financing, or special and/or
unique circumstances beyond the control of the applicant which have caused the
delay.
      (3)   The request for an extension of site plan approval shall be
determined by the City Administrator within 15 days from the receipt of a
complete request.
   (J)   Site improvement performance agreement and financial guarantee.
Following the approval of the site plan required by this chapter and before
issuance of a building permit, the applicant, as determined to be necessary by
the City Administrator, shall guarantee to the city the completion of all
improvements as shown on the approved site plan and as required by the site
plan approval. This guarantee shall be made by means of a site improvement
performance agreement and a financial guarantee as provided below:
      (1)   The applicant shall execute the site improvement performance
agreement on forms provided by the city. The agreement shall be approved as to
form and content by the City Attorney and shall define the required work and
reflect the terms of this section as to the required guarantee for the
performance of the work by the applicant.
      (2)   The required work includes, but is not limited to, private exterior
amenities such as landscaping, private driveways, parking areas, recreational
fields, structures or buildings, drainage systems, stormwater basins, wetland
mitigation, wetland buffers, erosion control, curbing, fences and screening,
and other similar facilities. The required work shall also include all aspects
of a tree preservation plan and reforestation plan, if applicable.
      (3)   A financial guarantee shall be submitted with the executed site
performance agreement as provided herein:
         (a)   Financial guarantees acceptable to the city include cash escrow;
an irrevocable letter of credit; or other financial instruments which provide
equivalent assurance to the city and which are approved by the City
Administrator.
         (b)   The term of the financial guarantee shall be for the life of the
site improvement performance agreement, and it shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to ensure that a submitted financial guarantee shall continue in
full force and effect until the City Administrator shall have approved and
accepted all of the work undertaken to be done and shall thereby have released
the guarantee or reduced the amount of the guarantee as provided in this
section.
         (c)   When any instrument submitted as a financial guarantee contains
a provision for an automatic expiration date, after which the instrument may
not be drawn upon, not withstanding, the status of the site performance
agreement or of the required work, the expiration date shall be October 31;
further, it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to notify the city in
writing, by certified mail, at least 60 days in advance of the expiration date
of the intention to renew the instrument or to not renew the instrument. If the
instrument is to be renewed, a written notice of extension shall be provided 30
days prior to the expiration date; if the instrument is not to be renewed, and
has not been released by the City Administrator, another acceptable financial
guarantee in the appropriate amount shall be submitted at least 30 days prior
to the expiration. The term of any extension shall be approved by the City
Administrator. Upon receipt of an acceptable substitute financial guarantee,
the City Administrator may release the original guarantee.
         (d)   The amount of the financial guarantee shall be established by
the City Administrator based upon an itemized estimate of the cost of all
required work as provided by the applicant. A cash escrow or irrevocable letter
of credit shall be in the amount of 125% of the approved estimated cost. The
amount of any other approved financial instrument shall be determined by the
City Administrator.
         (e)   At the option of the city, the applicant may submit a separate
financial guarantee for that portion of the required work consisting solely of
landscaping improvements with another financial guarantee for all other
exterior amenities and improvements which comprise the work. All trees shall be
warranted to be alive, of good quality, and disease-free for 12 months from the
time of planting. Any subsequent replacement shall be warranted for 12 months
from the time of planting.
      (4)   The time allowed for completion of the required improvements shall
be set out in the site improvement performance agreement. The agreement and the
financial guarantee shall provide for forfeiture to the city to cure a default
or reimburse the city the cost of enforcement measures. As various portions of
such required work are completed by the applicant, are in compliance with city
requirements, and are approved by the city, the City Administrator may release
such portion of the financial guarantee as is attributable to such completed
work. Landscaping improvements shall not be deemed complete until the city has
verified survivability of all required plantings through one WINTER SEASON
which is defined for the purpose of this section as the period October 31
through April 30.
      (5)   The applicant shall notify the City Administrator in writing when
all or a portion of the required improvements have been completed in accordance
with the approved plan and may be inspected. Upon receipt of such notice, the
City Administrator shall be responsible for the inspection of the improvements
to determine that the useful life of all work performed meets the standards for
the particular industry, profession, or material used in the performance of the
work. Any required work failing to meet such standards shall not be deemed to
be complete and the applicant shall be notified in writing as to required
corrections. Upon determination that the work has been completed, including the
winter season survivability of all landscape improvements, a notice of the date
of actual completion shall be given to the applicant and appropriate action, to
release or to reduce the amount of the financial guarantee shall be taken by
the City Administrator.
   (K)   Building codes. The review and approval of site improvements pursuant
to the requirements of city adopted building and fire codes shall be in
addition to the site plan review process established under this section. The
site plan approval process does not imply compliance with the requirements of
these building and fire codes.
   (L)   Plan agreements. All site and construction plans officially submitted
to the city shall be treated as a formal agreement between the applicant and
the city. Once approved, no changes, modifications or alterations shall be made
to any plan detail, standard, or specifications without prior submission of a
plan modification request to the City Administrator for review and approval.
   (M)   Plan referral. The City Administrator shall have the authority to
refer a sketch plan or site plan to the Planning Commission and/or City Council
for discussion, review, and informal comment. Any opinions or comments provided
to the applicant by the City Administrator, Planning Commission, and/or City
Council shall be considered advisory only and shall not constitute a binding
decision on the request.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.016 ADMINISTRATIVE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations and
procedures for the processing and consideration of activities allowed by
administrative permit (also referred to as a zoning permit), and of matters
requiring the approval of the City Administrator with the goal of protecting
the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   Administrative permits.
      (1)   Procedure.
         (a)   Application for an administrative permit shall be filed by the
property owner or designated agent with the City Administrator on forms to be
provided by the city.
         (b)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee as established by
City Council ordinance. Applications for amending administrative permits shall
be accompanied by a fee as established by City Council ordinance.
         (c)   The City Administrator shall review the application and related
materials and shall determine whether the proposal is in compliance with all
applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances, and applicable performance
standards set forth in this chapter. In cases where the application is judged
to be incomplete, the City Administrator or their designee shall notify the
applicant, in writing, of what information must be provided for the application
to be deemed complete within 15 business days of the date of submission.
         (d)   The City Administrator’s review shall be based upon the
following factors:
            1.   Compliance with and effect upon the comprehensive plan and
public facilities plans.
            2.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the use, event
or activity will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety,
or welfare.
            3.   The establishment of the use, event or activity will not
conflict with existing uses and will not impede the normal and orderly
development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted in the
district.
            4.   Adequate public facilities and services are available or can
be reasonably provided to accommodate the use, event or activity which is
proposed.
            5.   The use, event or activity shall, in all other respects,
conform to the applicable regulations of the district in which it is located
and to the performance standards as outlined in §
152.012(D) of this chapter and all other applicable provisions of this chapter.
         (e)   The City Administrator shall make a determination on approval or
denial of the administrative permit within 60 days from the date of submission
of a complete application.
         (f)   A written permit shall be issued to the applicant when a
determination of compliance has been made. Specific conditions to assure
compliance with applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances, and the
standards of this chapter shall be attached to the permit.
         (g)   Determination of noncompliance with applicable codes,
ordinances, and the standards in this section shall be communicated to the
applicant in writing and the application for the permit shall be considered
denied.
         (h)   Unresolved disputes as to administrative application of the
requirements of this section shall be subject to appeal as defined by §
152.011 of this chapter.
      (2)   Information requirement. The information required for all
administrative permit applications shall include:
         (a)   A concise statement describing the proposed use, event or
activity, including the purpose, type of merchandise involved, dates and times
of operation, number of employees involved, provisions for on-site security,
provisions for trash containment, provisions for on-site parking, and other
pertinent information required by the City Administrator to fully evaluate the
application.
         (b)   A copy of the approved site plan for the property or an “as
built” survey which accurately represents existing conditions on the site,
including entrances and exits, bona fide parking and driving areas, and which
accurately indicates any proposed temporary structures, including tents,
stands, and signs.
         (c)   An accurate floor plan, when in the judgment of the City
Administrator, such a plan is necessary to properly evaluate the location of
the event and the effectiveness of available entrances and exits.
         (d)   Information identified in §
152.015(G) of this chapter, as may be applicable.
      (3)   Performance standards. All structures, uses, events or activities
allowed by administrative permit shall conform to the applicable standards
outlined in the zoning district in which such structure, use, event or activity
is proposed, as well as the applicable standards in §
152.012(D) of this chapter.
      (4)   Administration and enforcement.
         (a)   The City Administrator shall keep a record of applications and
administrative permits.
         (b)   A copy of all administrative permits issued shall be forwarded
to appropriate staff as determined by the City Administrator.
         (c)   Enforcement of the provisions of this section shall be in
accordance with §
152.017 of this chapter. Violation of an issued permit or of the provisions of
this chapter also shall be grounds for denial of future permit applications.
      (5)   Certification of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for
an administrative permit, the applicant shall provide certification to the city
that there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or
city utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the administrative
permit application relates.
      (6)   Non-permit approvals. In cases where the City Administrator is
given approval authority without a requirement for an administrative permit,
determinations shall be based upon the criteria outlined in §
152.012(D) of this chapter.
   (C)   Lapse of approval.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified by the City Administrator, an
administrative permit approval and non-permit approvals of the City
Administrator shall become null and void one year after the date of approval,
unless the property owner or applicant has substantially started the
construction of any building, structure, addition or alteration, or use
requested as part of the approved administrative permit. The property owner or
applicant shall have the right to submit an application for time extension in
accordance with this section.
      (2)   In making its determination on whether an applicant has made a good
faith attempt to utilize the administrative permit approval, the City
Administrator shall consider such factors as the type, design, and size of the
proposed construction, any applicable restrictions on financing, or special
and/or unique circumstances beyond the control of the applicant which have
caused the delay.
      (3)   The request for an extension of an administrative permit approval
shall be determined by the City Administrator within 15 days from the receipt
of a complete request.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.017 GENERAL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Fees, charges and expenses.
      (1)   Fees and charges, as well as expenses incurred by the city for
engineering, planning, attorney, and other services related to the processing
of applications required by this chapter, as well as for public hearings,
special meetings, or other such City Council or Planning Commission actions as
are necessary to process applications, shall be determined annually by the City
Council through the city fee schedule.
      (2)   Escrow. An escrow deposit required for the processing of
applications required by this chapter shall be used for payment of all costs
incurred for city in the processing of an application required by this chapter.
         (a)   All costs incurred for city staff and consultants directly
related to processing of an application required by this chapter including
preparation of reports or studies, attendance at staff or public meetings, and
any other expenses incurred with processing of an application.
         (b)   The property owner shall reimburse the escrow account for any
deficits caused if the amount actually expended by or billed to the city
exceeds the fund balance.
         (c)   The city shall refund any amount deposited in the escrow account
not expended within 90 calendar days after final action on the application.
      (3)   Fees, charges, and estimated expenses for the processing of a
development application required by this chapter shall be collected prior to
city action on any application. The fees shall be deposited in city accounts.
The applicant shall not be paid interest on the fees required by this chapter.
      (4)   All fees and expenses incurred by the city are to be paid whether
the application is approved or denied.
      (5)   The owner of the property subject to the application required by
this chapter shall be responsible for all costs incurred by the city in
processing the application and enforcing the terms of any agreements relating
to the application in accordance with M.S. § 462.353, subd. 4a.
      (6)   Unpaid expenses.
         (a)   All unpaid expenses incurred by the city under the Mayer Code of
Ordinances not covered by the escrow will be charged against the property
subject to the application and will be the responsibility of the property owner
pursuant to M.S. § 462.353.
         (b)   The property owner shall be invoiced for the city’s costs to
where property tax statements are sent by the county to be paid within 30 days
of the date of the invoice.
         (c)   Should the property owner not reimburse the city as required by
this section, the city shall be authorized to take any action authorized by law
to recover the costs and fees, including recording a lien against real estate
that is the subject of the application pursuant to M.S. § 514.67, for any of
the aforementioned unpaid fees and services.
   (B)   Enforcement. This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
City Administrator or designee. The City Administrator may institute in the
name of the city any appropriate actions or proceedings against a violator as
provided by statute, charter or ordinance. The City Administrator’s duties
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Periodically inspect buildings, structures, and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   Notify, in writing, any person responsible for violating a
provision of this chapter, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering
the action necessary to correct it.
      (3)   Order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or
structures; order removal of illegal buildings, structures, additions or
alterations; order discontinuance of illegal work being done; or take any other
action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent
violation of its provisions, including cooperation with the City Attorney in
the prosecution of complaints.
      (4)   Maintain permanent and current records of the zoning ordinance,
including all maps, amendments, conditional uses and variances.
      (5)   Maintain a current file of all permits, all certificates and all
copies of notices of violation, discontinuance, or removal for such time as
necessary to ensure a continuous compliance with the provisions of this chapter
and, on request, provide information to any person having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in any specific property.
      (6)   Provide clerical and technical assistance to the Planning
Commission and Board of Zoning Adjustments and Appeals.
      (7)   Receive, file and forward as applicable to the Board of Zoning
Adjustments and Appeals, Planning Commission, or City Council all applications
for conditional use permits, variances, interim use permits, administrative
permits, amendments or site plans as required herein.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than the maximum penalty for
a misdemeanor prescribed under state law. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
**** PERFORMANCE STANDARDS ****
§ 152.025 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS PURPOSE.
   The purpose of performance standards is to establish general development
performance standards. These standards are intended and designed to assure
compatibility of uses; to prevent urban blight, deterioration and decay; and to
enhance the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the
community.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.026 DWELLING UNIT RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Except as may be expressly allowed by this chapter, no garage, tent,
accessory building or motor home shall at any time be used as living quarters,
temporarily or permanently. Tents, playhouses or similar structures may be used
for play or recreational purposes.
   (B)   Basements and cellars may be used as living quarters or rooms as a
portion of the principal residential dwelling.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.027 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING REQUIREMENTS.
   All single-family detached dwellings, except for approved manufactured home
parks, shall be constructed according to the following minimum standards:
   (A)   State Building Code. Be constructed upon a continuous perimeter
foundation that meets the requirements of the State Building Code.
   (B)   Measurements. Not be less than 30 feet in length and not less than 24
feet in width over that entire minimum length. Width measurements shall not
take into account overhangs and other projections beyond the principal walls.
   (C)   Roof. Have an earth covered, composition, metal, shingled or tiled
roof.
   (D)   Receive a building permit. The application for a building permit in
addition to other information required shall indicate the height, size, design
and the appearance of all elevations of the proposed building and a description
of the construction materials proposed to be used, and the delineation of
future deck, porch and/or garage additions whether or not such construction is
intended. The exterior architectural design of a proposed dwelling may not be
so at variance with, nor so similar to, the exterior architectural design of
any structure or structures already constructed or in the course of
construction in the immediate neighborhood, nor so at variance with the
character of the surrounding neighborhood as to adversely affect the public
health, safety or general welfare.
   (E)   Requirements. Meet the requirements of the State Building Code.
   (F)   Site plan. All site plans for single-family detached dwellings must
provide for the location of a two-stall attached garage.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.028 PLATTED AND UNPLATTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person desiring to improve property shall submit to the building
official a survey of the premises and information on the location and
dimensions of existing and proposed buildings, location of easements crossing
the property, encroachments, and any other information which may be necessary
to ensure conformance to city ordinances.
   (B)   All buildings shall be placed so that they will not obstruct future
public streets which may be constructed in conformity with existing streets and
according to the system and standards employed by the city.
   (C)   Except in the case of a planned unit development as provided for in §
152.098 of this chapter or as specifically allowed and stated in a respective
zoning district, not more than one principal building shall be located on a
lot. The words PRINCIPAL BUILDING shall be given their common, ordinary meaning
as defined in §
152.005 of this chapter.
   (D)   On a through lot, both street lines shall be front lot lines for
applying the yard setback regulations of this chapter except in the case of a
buffer yard fence or accessory building. In addition, no home on a through lot
or corner lot in any residential zone shall be allowed direct access to any
major collector or arterial street designated as such by the comprehensive
plan, except as may be permitted by the City Administrator.
   (E)   In the case of properties which abut street easements, applicable
setbacks shall be measured from the easement line and shall be related to
roadway classification as identified in the Mayer comprehensive plan.
   (F)   Outlots are deemed unbuildable and no building permit shall be issued
for such properties, except in the case of public park facilities and essential
services.
   (G)   Lot frontage and access. Each lot shall have frontage to an abutting,
improved, and city accepted public street in compliance with the minimum lot
width requirements of the respective zoning district.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.029 EROSION AND DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Permit applicants. No person or political subdivision shall commence a
land disturbing activity or create new impervious surface without first
obtaining a permit from the city that incorporates and approves a storm water
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) for the activity, development or
redevelopment. For sites disturbing less than one acre, an erosion and sediment
control plan may be submitted as part of the building permit application.
   (B)   Development not permitted. No land shall be developed and no use shall
be permitted that results in water runoff causing flooding, erosion, or deposit
of sediment on adjacent properties. Such runoff shall be properly channeled
into a storm drain, watercourse, stormwater basin, or other public facilities
subject to the review and approval of the City Engineer.
   (C)   Standards. Erosion and sediment controls shall meet the standards for
the general permit authorization to discharge stormwater associated with
construction activity under the national pollutant discharge elimination
system/state disposal system permit program permit MN R100001 (NPDES general
construction permit) issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, as
amended. Final stabilization of the site must be completed in accordance with
NPDES general construction permit requirements.
   (D)   City Engineer approval.
      (1)   In the case of all single-family lots, multiple-family lots,
business, industrial and institutional developments, the drainage and erosion
control plans shall be subject to the City Engineer’s written approval.
      (2)   No modification in grade and drainage flow through fill, cuts,
erection of retaining walls or other such actions shall be permitted until such
plans have been reviewed and received written approval from the City Engineer.
      (3)   Prior to the release of any required grading security, an as built
certificate of survey shall be submitted to verify that the final as built
grades and elevations of the lot and building setbacks are consistent with the
approved grading plan for the development and amendments as approved by the
City Engineer and that all required property monuments are in place.
   (E)   Approval of erosion control measures. Proposed erosion control
measures may be approved by the City Engineer as part of grading plan review.
Erosion control may be specified by the City Engineer as part of a site survey
for individual building permits. Erosion and sediment control measures shall be
consistent with best management practices (BMPs) for erosion and sedimentation
control as specified in the “Minnesota Stormwater Manual” (MPCA 2005), as
amended, and shall be sufficient to retain sediment on site. Erosion control
measures may also be specified by the City Engineer as needed and deemed
appropriate during the construction and post-construction periods separate from
the above.
   (F)   Storm sewer inlets. All storm sewer inlets which are functioning
during construction shall be protected so that sediment laden water does not
enter the conveyance system without first being filtered or otherwise treated
to remove sediment.
   (G)   Sediment control practices. All temporary erosion and sediment
controls shall be installed on all down gradient perimeters before commencing
the land disturbing activity, and left in place and maintained as needed until
removed per city approval after the site had been stabilized. All permanent
erosion control measures shall be installed and operational per the design and
as required by the city.
   (H)   Tracking. Each site shall have rock construction entrance, access
drives and parking areas of sufficient width and length to prevent sediment
from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any sediment reaching a
public or private road shall be removed by street cleaning (not flushing)
before the end of each workday or more often if necessary to maintain the road
in safe driving condition.
   (I)   Seeding. All disturbed ground left inactive for seven or more days
shall be stabilized by seeding or sodding or by mulching or covering or other
equivalent control measure.
   (J)   Removal. All temporary erosion control devices including silt fence,
gravel, hay bales or other measures shall be removed from the construction site
and properly disposed of or recycled. This removal and disposal must occur
within 30 days of the establishment of permanent vegetative cover on the
disturbed area.
   (K)   Site dewatering. Water pumped from the site shall be treated by
temporary sedimentation basins, grit chambers, sand filters, upflow chambers,
hydrocyclones, swirl concentrators or other appropriate controls as
appropriate. Water may not be discharged in a manner that causes erosion or
flooding of the site or receiving channels of a wetland. All dewatering shall
be in accordance with all applicable county, state, and federal rules and
regulations. Minnesota Department of Natural Resources regulations regarding
appropriate permits shall also be strictly adhered to.
   (L)   Waste and material disposal. All waste and unused building materials
(including garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater, toxic materials or
hazardous materials) shall be properly disposed of off-site and not allowed to
be carried by runoff into a receiving channel or storm sewer system.
   (M)   Foundation, garage floor. Unless approved by the City Engineer, the
top of the foundation and garage floor of all structures shall be at least 18
inches above the grade of the crown of the street.
   (N)   Stop work order. The City Administrator or City Engineer may issue
stop work orders for any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.030 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   Exterior use of lighting systems shall conform to the following provisions
to reduce light pollution:
   (A)   Intensity.
      (1)   The cumulative light cast by all lights on the property shall not
exceed 115 foot-candles at ground level measured at any point on the property.
      (2)   No light source or combination thereof which casts light on a
public street shall exceed one foot-candle meter reading as measured at the
right of way or property line.
   (B)   Commercial, industrial and institutional uses. Any lighting used to
illuminate an off-street parking area, structure, or area shall be arranged so
as to deflect light away from any adjoining property or from any public right
of way in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   Shielding.
         (a)   The light fixture shall contain a cutoff which directs the light
at an angle of 90 degrees or less.
         (b)   For light fixtures located within 30 feet of residential zoned
property, additional shielding shall be required on the property line side of
the fixture below the 90-degree cutoff to direct light away from the
residential property.
         (c)   Lighting of entire facades of a building shall only utilize
illuminating devices mounted on top and facing downward onto the structure.
         (d)   The following shall be exempt from the shielding requirements
established by divisions (B)(1)(a) to (B)(1)(c) of this section.
            1.   Internally illuminated signs and signs with electronic
displays as may be allowed by §
152.071 of this chapter.
   (C)   Height.
      (1)   The maximum height above the ground grade permitted for poles,
fixtures, and light sources mounted on a pole shall be 35 feet.
      (2)   A light source mounted on a building shall not exceed the height of
the building.
   (D)   Location. Except for building mounted fixtures within the C-2 Central
Business District, all outdoor light sources shall be set back a minimum of ten
feet from a public right-of-way and five feet from an interior side or rear lot
line.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Temporary outdoor lighting used during customary holiday seasons or
civic celebrations.
      (2)   Lighting required by a government agency for the safe operation of
airplanes, or security lighting required on government buildings, structures,
facilities or public right-of-way.
      (3)   Emergency lighting by police, fire, and rescue authorities.
      (4)   Illumination of United States or Minnesota flags.
      (5)   Public parks, trails and recreational facilities.
   (F)   Prohibitions. The following outdoor lights are prohibited:
      (1)   Laser, strobe or flashing lights.
   (G)   Glare. Direct or reflected glare, such as from floodlights,
spotlights, or high temperature processes, and as differentiated from general
illumination, shall not be visible beyond the site of origin at any property
line. Any lighting used for exterior illumination (including off-street parking
areas) shall be directed away from adjacent properties.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-2026)
§ 152.031 SMOKE.
   The emission of smoke by any use shall be in compliance with and regulated
by the state of Minnesota pollution control standards, Minnesota Regulations
APC 7017.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.032 DUST AND OTHER PARTICULATE MATTER.
   The emission of dust, fly ash or other particulate matter by any use shall
be in compliance with and regulated by the state of Minnesota pollution control
standards, Minnesota regulations APC 7011.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.033 AIR POLLUTION.
   The emission of air pollution, including potentially hazardous emissions, by
any use shall be in compliance with and regulated by M.S. Ch. 116, as may be
amended.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.034 NOISE.
   Noises emanating from any use shall be in compliance with and regulated by
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency in accordance with Minnesota statutes
and rules.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.035 VIBRATION.
   Vibration generated from any use shall be in compliance with and regulated
by Minnesota Pollution Control Agency standards.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.036 BULK STORAGE (LIQUID).
   All uses associated with the bulk storage of all gasoline, liquid
fertilizer, chemical, flammable and similar liquids shall comply with county,
state, and federal agency requirements, and have documents from those
respective agencies stating the use is in compliance.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.037 WASTE.
   (A)   All waste generated shall be disposed in a manner consistent with all
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency rules.
   (B)   Any accumulation of waste generated on any premises not stored in
containers which comply Minnesota Pollution Control Agency rules, or any
accumulation of mixed municipal solid waste generated on any premises which has
remained thereon for more than one week, or any accumulation of infectious,
nuclear, pathological, or hazardous waste which is not stored and disposed in a
manner consistent with Minnesota Pollution Control Agency rules is a nuisance
and may be abated and the cost of abatement may be assessed against the
property where the nuisance is found.
   (C)   The accumulation, storage, processing, and disposal of waste on any
premises, which is not generated on that premises, is prohibited, except as
specifically provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.038 EXPLOSIVES.
   Any use requiring the storage, utilization, or manufacturing of products
which could decompose by detonation shall be located not less than 1,000 from
any residential district. This standard shall not apply to the storage or usage
of liquefied petroleum or natural gas for normal residential or commercial
purposes.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.039 RADIATION AND ELECTRICAL EMISSIONS.
   No activities shall be permitted that emit dangerous radioactivity beyond
enclosed areas. There shall be no electrical disturbance (except from domestic
household appliances) adversely affecting the operation at any point of any
equipment including but not limited to radio and television reception other
than that of the creator of the disturbance.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.040 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   The traffic generated by any use shall be channeled and controlled in
a manner that will not contribute to congestion on public streets, safety
hazards and excessive traffic through residential areas. Traffic into and out
of all commercial, industrial and institutional uses and areas shall in all
cases be forward moving with no backing onto streets or pedestrian ways.
   (B)   Screening; obstruction of view. Except as may be approved by the City
Administrator, and except for a governmental agency for the purpose of
screening, no wall, fence, structure, tree, shrub, vegetation or other
obstruction shall be placed on or extend into a yard or right of way area so as
to pose a danger to traffic by obscuring the view of approaching vehicular
traffic or pedestrians from any street or driveway.
   (C)   Traffic sight visibility triangle; visibility from street. Visibility
from any street shall be unobstructed above a height of three feet, measured
from where both street centerlines intersect within the triangle described as
beginning at the intersection of the projected curb line (or edge of shoulders
for rural sections) of two intersecting streets, thence 45 feet along one curb
line, thence diagonally to a point 45 feet from the point of beginning along
the other curb line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c37d891546e675fbe9f196ea5ce416791fcf4ae2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1518.jpg]
 
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Trees, plantings or landscape arrangements within the area
described by this section that will not create a total obstruction higher than
three feet shall be allowed.
      (2)   Properties within the C-2 Central Business District shall be exempt
from the provisions of division (C) above.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.041 WETLAND PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Wetland application. Every applicant for a grading permit to allow
wetland disturbing activities must submit a report to the city. No grading
permit to allow wetland disturbing activities shall be issued until approval of
the wetland replacement plan application or a certificate of exemption has been
obtained in strict conformance with the provisions of this chapter and the
Minnesota Wetland Conservation Act. This section applies to all land, public or
private, located within the city.
   (B)   Impacts to wetland.
      (1)   Protective buffer. A protective buffer of natural vegetation shall
surround all wetlands within areas developed or redeveloped in accordance with
the following provisions:
         (a)   Public trails and sidewalks. Public trails and sidewalks that
are a maximum of ten feet in width can be included within the buffer provided
the designated width is maintained.
         (b)   Outlot plat. The wetland and buffer shall be platted as an
outlot if established as part of a subdivision application. All other
applications shall require dedication of a conservation easement, unless
otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
         (c)   Exception. Property owned by the City of Mayer shall be exempt
from establishing an outlot or conservation easement for required buffer areas.
   (B)   Building setback. For properties developed or redeveloped, a building
setback of ten feet for a side yard and 20 feet for a rear yard shall be
provided from the delineated edge of all required wetland buffers at the time
of development.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
**** GENERAL REGULATIONS ****
§ 152.050 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for the
regulation of nonconforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify those
requirements, circumstances and conditions under which nonconforming buildings,
structures and uses will be operated and maintained. This zoning chapter
establishes separate districts, each of which is an appropriate area for the
location of uses which are permitted in that district. It is necessary and
consistent with the establishment of these districts that nonconforming
buildings, structures and uses not be permitted to continue without
restriction. Furthermore, it is the intent of this section that all
nonconforming uses shall be eventually brought into conformity.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Conditional uses/interim uses/uses by administrative permit. Any
legal nonconforming structure or use that is herein classified as a conditional
use, interim use, or use by administrative permit may be continued in like
fashion and activity and shall automatically be considered as having received
the applicable approval. Any change to such a use, including, but not limited
to, building and/or site alteration, shall however require a new permit be
processed according to this chapter.
      (2)   Moving nonconforming buildings. Subject to §
152.054 of this chapter, no nonconforming building, structure or use shall be
moved to another lot or to any other part of the parcel of land upon which the
same was constructed or was conducted at the time it became a legal
nonconformity, unless such movement will reduce the nonconformity.
      (3)   Subdivision. No parcel of land or portion thereof shall be
subdivided if such action results in buildings and/or uses becoming
nonconforming.
   (4)   Continuance of legal nonconformity. Any legal nonconformity, including
the lawful use or occupation of land or premises existing at the time of the
adoption of an additional control under this section, may be continued,
including through repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance, or
improvement, but not including expansion, except as specifically provided in
this section, unless:
      (a)   The nonconformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period of more
than one year; or
      (b)   Any nonconforming use is destroyed by fire or other peril to the
extent of greater than 50% of its market value, and no building permit has been
applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged, unless the owner
has applied for an extension of time with the city and the City Council has
approved such extension.
      (c)   Any subsequent use or occupancy of the land or premises shall be a
conforming use or occupancy.
   (5)   The City may impose upon nonconformities reasonable regulations to
prevent and abate nuisances and to protect the public health, welfare, or
safety.
   (6)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall be defined as follows:
      EXPANSION, ENLARGEMENT OR INTENSIFICATION. Any increase in a dimension,
size, area, volume, or height, any increase in the area of use, any placement
of a structure or part thereof where none existed before, any addition of a
site feature such as a deck, patio, fence, driveway, parking area, or swimming
pool, any improvement that would allow the land to be more intensely developed,
any move of operations to a new location on the property, or any increase in
intensity of use based on a review of the original nature, function or purpose
of the nonconforming use, the hours of operation, traffic, parking, noise,
exterior storage, signs, exterior lighting, types of operations, types of goods
or services offered, odors, area of operation, number of employees, and other
factors deemed relevant by the city.
      IMPROVEMENT. Making the nonconforming use better, more efficient, or more
aesthetically pleasing, including any change that does not replicate what
preexisted, but does not include an expansion, enlargement, or intensification.
      REPLACEMENT, RECONSTRUCTION OR RESTORATION. Construction that exactly
matches preexisting conditions.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Changes to nonconforming uses.
         (a)   When a legal nonconforming use of any structure or parcel of
land in any district has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not
thereafter be changed to any nonconforming use.
         (b)   A legal nonconforming use of a structure or parcel of land may
be changed to reduce the nonconformity of use. Once a nonconforming structure
or parcel of land has been changed, it shall not thereafter be so altered to
increase the nonconformity.
         (c)   Normal maintenance. Maintenance of a building or other structure
containing or used by a nonconforming use will be allowed when it includes
necessary nonstructural repair and incidental alterations which do not extend
or intensify the nonconforming building or use.
   (D)   Nonconforming buildings and structures.
      (1)   Proposed structure. Any proposed structure that will become
nonconforming by amendment of this chapter but for which a building permit has
been lawfully granted prior to the effective date of the amendment, may be
completed in accordance with the approved plans; provided construction is
started within 60 days of the effective date of the amendment, is not abandoned
for a period of more than 120 days, and continues to completion within two
years. The structure shall thereafter be a legal nonconforming structure.
      (2)   Alterations. Alteration and normal maintenance to a legal
nonconforming building or structure may be made through the building permit
process provided.
         (a)   The alterations do not expand the foundation and/or building
size (including deck additions), unless specifically allowed by this chapter.
         (b)   The alterations do not increase the building occupancy capacity
or parking demand.
         (c)   The alteration does not increase the degree of the nonconforming
condition of the building, site or the use.
      (3)   Expansion of legal nonconforming buildings or structures.
         (a)   Administrative approvals. The following expansions of legal
nonconforming single- and two-family residential buildings may be approved
through the administrative permit process by the City Administrator subject to
the provisions of §
152.016 of this chapter. The City Administrator shall make a determination that
the building expansion will comply with the intent and purpose of this section
and this chapter.
            1.   Expansion of principal buildings found to be nonconforming
only by reason of height and yard setback may be allowed provided the expansion
complies with the performance standards of this chapter.
            3.   Expansion of nonconforming detached accessory structures shall
not be allowed.
         (b)   Conditional use permit. Legal nonconforming commercial,
industrial, institutional, and multiple-family residential principal structures
may be expanded on the same lot by conditional use permit provided.
            1.   The expansion will not increase the nonconformity of the
building or site.
            2.   The new building expansion will conform to all the applicable
performance standards of this chapter. A conditional use permit shall not be
issued under this section for a deviation from other requirements of this
chapter unless variances are also approved.
            3.   The request for conditional use permit shall be evaluated
based on standards and criteria set forth in §
152.012 of this chapter.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.051 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to maintain the character and
integrity of residential areas, to prevent competition with commercial
districts, to encourage telecommuting, and to provide a means through the
establishment of specific standards and procedures by which home occupations
can be conducted in residential neighborhoods without jeopardizing the health,
safety and general welfare of the surrounding neighborhood.
   (B)   Application. All occupations conducted in the home shall comply with
the provisions of this section. This section shall not be construed, however,
to apply to home occupations accessory to farming, home offices as defined by
this chapter, or other occupations that do not involve or require the patron to
be upon the premises.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   Administrative permit.
         (a)   Except as required by this section, home occupations defined by
this chapter shall require an administrative permit pursuant to §
152.016 of this chapter issued subject to the conditions of this section, other
applicable city ordinances and state law.
         (b)   The permit shall remain in full force and effect until such time
as there has been a change in conditions or until such time as the provisions
of this section have been breached.
      (2)   Declaration of conditions. The City Administrator may impose such
conditions on the granting of an administrative permit as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose and provisions of this section.
      (3)   Effect of permit.
         (a)   An administrative permit may be issued for a period of one year,
after which the permit may be reissued for periods of up to three years each.
         (b)   Each application for permit renewal shall, however, be processed
in accordance with the provisions of §
152.016 of this chapter regarding administrative permits, except that no
application fee shall be required.
      (4)   Transferability. Administrative permits shall not run with the land
and shall not be transferable.
      (5)   Lapse of administrative permit by nonuse. Whenever within one year
after granting an administrative permit, the use as permitted by the permit
shall not have been initiated, then such permit shall become null and void
unless a petition for extension of time in which to complete the work has been
granted by the City Administrator. Such extension shall be requested in writing
and filed with the City Administrator at least 30 days before the expiration of
the original permit. There shall be no charge for the filing of such petition.
The request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to
initiate the use.
      (6)   Renewal of permits.
         (a)   An applicant shall not have a vested right to renewal of an
administrative permit by reason of having obtained a previous permit.
         (b)   Each application for the renewal of a permit will be considered
de novo without taking into consideration that a previous permit has been
granted. The previous granting or renewal of a permit shall not constitute a
precedent or basis for the renewal of a permit.
   (D)   General provisions. All home occupations shall comply with the
following general provisions and according to definition, the applicable
requirement provisions:
      (1)   Glare, noise, odor, and the like prohibited. No home occupation
shall produce light, glare, noise, odor or vibration that will in any way have
an objectionable effect upon adjacent or nearby property.
      (2)   Equipment. No equipment shall be used in the home occupation which
will create electrical interference to surrounding properties.
      (3)   Incidental to residential use. Any home occupation shall be clearly
incidental and secondary to the residential use of the premises, should not
change the residential character thereof, and shall result in no
incompatibility or disturbance to the surrounding residential uses.
      (4)   External alterations. No home occupation shall require internal or
external alterations or involve construction features not customarily found in
dwellings except where required to comply with local and state fire and police
recommendations.
      (5)   Activities conducted within principal dwelling. All home
occupations shall be conducted entirely within the living quarters of the
principal dwelling and may not be conducted in any portion of an attached
private garage or within accessory buildings.
      (6)   Exterior storage. There shall be no exterior storage of equipment
or materials used in the home occupation, except personal automobiles used in
the home occupation may be parked on the site or the display of goods.
      (7)   Compliance with fire and building codes. The home occupation shall
meet all applicable fire and building codes.
      (8)   Displays and signs. There shall be no exterior display or exterior
signs or interior display or interior signs which are visible from outside the
dwelling with the exception of one unlighted sign not to exceed four square
feet in area.
      (9)   Hours. No home occupation shall be conducted between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (10)   Employment. Not more than one full time person and two part time
persons, other than those who customarily reside on the premises shall be
employed by the home occupation.
      (11)   Parking. Home occupations shall not create a parking demand in
excess of that which can be accommodated in an existing driveway or guest
parking area for multiple-family dwellings, where no vehicle is parked so as to
obstruct a public street, sidewalk or trail or private driveway.
      (12)   Allowed home occupations.
         (a)   Home occupations include, and are limited to:
            1.   Hair salon.
            2.   Instructional classes with not more than one pupil at a time,
except that up to three pupils all residing in the same household shall be
allowed.
            3.   Massage therapy.
            4.   Photography studio.
            5.   Small appliance repair.
            6.   Tailoring, sewing and alternations.
            7.   Home offices.
            8.   Home daycares as an accessory use per the requirements of this
chapter.
         (b)   Home occupations shall not involve any of the following:
            1.   Repair service or manufacturing which requires equipment other
than found in a dwelling.
            2.   Services that consist of more than one pupil, client, or
customer at a time, except that up to three persons all residing in the same
household shall be allowed.
            3.   Over the counter retail sale of merchandise produced off the
premises.
   (E)   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any
administrative permit to inspect the premises in which the occupation is being
conducted to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section or any
conditions additionally imposed.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.052 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the erection of
temporary structures (not including model homes/temporary real estate offices)
needed for emergency purposes or for temporary use during the construction of a
permanent structure.
   (B)   Procedure. The erection of a temporary structure shall require a site
plan review as required under §
152.015 of this chapter.
   (C)   Special requirements.
      (1)   Structures. Temporary structures governed by this section shall be
allowed in all zoning districts.
      (2)   Site plan required. No permit shall be issued for a temporary
structure unless a site plan pursuant to §
152.015 of this chapter has also been approved if applicable, or unless a
building permit has been issued for a new structure, addition or remodeling of
an existing structure on the property.
      (3)   Termination of permit. The site plan shall terminate nine months
from its date of issuance, or within 30 days after a certificate of occupancy
has been issued by the building official for the permanent structure, whichever
occurs first, unless a different time schedule is approved as part of the
permit. The permit may be extended for an additional 90 days by the City
Administrator.
      (4)   Setback. Temporary structures may be placed in a required building
setback area, provided that no such structure may be placed within 30 feet of a
public right-of-way or obstruct visibility at any street intersection or
driveway access.
      (5)   State Building Code. All applicable requirements of the State
Building Code shall be met.
      (6)   Water and sewer. Provisions for water and sewer servicing the
temporary structures shall be subject to the review and approval of the
building official.
      (7)   Security measures. Security measures such as lighting shall be
implemented subject to the review and approval of the city.
      (8)   Parking. Subject to the provisions of §
152.067 of this chapter.
      (9)   Signage. Subject to the provisions of §
152.071 of this chapter.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.053 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the
installation of essential services such as telephone lines, cable lines,
pipelines, electric transmission lines and substations in such a manner that
the health, safety and welfare of the city will not be adversely affected.
Essential services shall also be installed in recognition of existing and
projected demands for such services.
   (B)   Application. This section shall not apply to overhead electric
transmission lines and substations greater than 100 kV.
   (C)   Administrative permit required.
      (1)   All telephone lines, pipelines and structures for local
distribution, underground electric transmission lines, and overhead electric
transmission lines and substations less than 33 kV, when installed in any
public right-of-way in any zoning district, shall require an administrative
permit approved by the City Administrator and subject to review and comment of
the City Engineer.
      (2)   All telephone lines, pipelines and structures for local
distribution, underground electric transmission lines, and overhead electric
transmission lines less than 33 kV, which are intended to serve more than one
parcel and are proposed to be installed at locations other than in public
right-of-way, shall require an administrative permit issued by the City
Administrator after approval by the City Engineer. Approval by the City
Engineer shall be based upon the information furnished in the following
procedural requirements:
         (a)   Prior to the installation of any of the previous essential
services, the owner of such service shall file with the City Administrator all
maps and other pertinent information as deemed necessary for the City Engineer
to review the proposed project.
         (b)   In considering applications for the placement of essential
services, as regulated in this section, the City Engineer shall consider the
effect of the proposed project upon the health, safety and general welfare of
the city, as existing and as anticipated; and the effect of the proposed
project upon the comprehensive plan.
         (c)   Upon receiving the approval of the City Engineer, the City
Administrator shall issue an administrative permit for the installation and
operation of the applicant’s essential services.
   (D)   Conditional use permit required. All transmission pipelines (i.e.,
pipelines not required for local distributing network), overhead transmission
and substation lines in excess of 33 kV and up to 100 kV shall be a conditional
use in all districts subject to the procedural requirements and standards
stipulated in this chapter and §
152.012 of this chapter.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.054 BUILDING RELOCATION/MOVING.
   No existing building or structure shall be relocated or moved anywhere
within in the city without a permit. A permit for the relocation of any
building or structure shall not be issued without site plan approval by the
city. The city shall not approve a site plan without certifying the following:
   (A)   Compliance required. Such activity shall comply with §
152.015 of this chapter.
   (B)   The use is allowed in the respective zoning district that includes the
lot or parcel to which the building or structure is to be relocated.
   (C)   The building or structure maintains architectural and aesthetic
compatibility in type, grade, quality of exterior building finish, building
massing, height, floor area, age and character with existing buildings and
structures on the same lot or parcel and in the area of the relocation
destination.
   (D)   The building or structure meets all State Building Code requirements
for new buildings or structures.
   (E)   The building or structure meets all other requirements of this chapter
and any other city ordinances.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.055 SCREENING.
   (A)   Outside storage. The screening of outside storage areas and solar
farms required herein shall consist of a solid fence or wall that is 100%
opaque and not less than six feet or more than eight feet in height. Such a
screen wall or fence shall be designed and constructed as to be architecturally
harmonious with the principal structure or solar farm and located so as to not
extend within 25 feet of any street. Landscaping (trees, shrubs, grass and
other plantings) shall be on the right-of-way side of any screening or fencing.
A screen planting may be substituted for a screen wall or fence or incorporated
into a screen wall or fence at the discretion of the City Administrator,
provided that any such screen planting shall fulfill the foregoing height and
opacity requirements throughout each season of the year within 24 months after
date of planting, and that no such screen planting shall be located across any
existing easements.
   (B)   Commercial, industrial and institutional screening. Where any
commercial, industrial or institutional use, except those within the C-
2 Central Business District and public recreational facilities, abuts a
residential district, that use shall provide screening along the property line
abutting any property in the residential district. If a public or private
street separates the uses, then screening shall not be required. All the
screening specifically required by this chapter shall be subject to §
152.040(C) of this chapter related to traffic visibility and shall consist of a
greenbelt strip as provided for below:
      (1)   A green belt planting strip shall consist of evergreen trees and/or
deciduous trees and plants and shall be of sufficient width and density to
provide an effective visual screen. This planting strip shall be designed to
provide complete visual screening to a minimum height of six feet. Earth
mounding or berms may be used, but shall not be used to achieve more than three
feet of the required screening. The planting plan and type of plantings shall
require the approval of the City Administrator.
      (2)   A screening fence may be incorporated into the green belt planting
strip, but not in lieu of the greenbelt and shall be constructed of masonry,
brick, vinyl or wood. Such fence shall provide a solid screening effect six
feet in height. The grade for determining height shall be the grade elevation
of the building or use for which the screening is providing protection, unless
otherwise established by the City Administrator. The design and materials used
in constructing a required screening fence shall be subject to the approval of
the City Administrator.
      (3)   Existing landscape material in good health and condition may be
used to satisfy the requirements of this division (B) in whole or part when, in
the opinion of the City Administrator, such material meets the requirements and
intent of this section.
   (C)   Screening of mechanical equipment. All rooftop and ground mounted
mechanical equipment of residential buildings having five dwelling units or
more and of nonresidential buildings shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   All rooftop and ground mounted mechanical equipment shall be
screened so as to mitigate noise in compliance with §
152.034 of this chapter.
      (2)   All rooftop and ground mounted mechanical equipment shall be
designed (including exterior color) and located so as to be aesthetically
harmonious and compatible with the building. Screening of and landscaping
around the equipment may be required where the design, color, and location of
the equipment are found to not effectively buffer noise or provide aesthetic
harmony and compatibility. Screening shall be constructed of durable materials
which are aesthetically compatible with the structure and which may be an
integral part of the structure. Applicable requirements for access to the
equipment shall be observed in the design and construction of the screening.
      (3)   Rooftop mechanical equipment less than three feet in height may be
exempt from screening requirements by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.056 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of the city to preserve its significant
natural resources as a complement to existing and future development. In
particular, wetlands and drainageways shall be preserved in their natural state
for their functional and ecological value as well as for their positive impact
upon proximate urban development.
      (1)   Development within woodland areas may be permitted but, as far as
practical, retention of substantial tree stands shall be encouraged and
incorporated into the required landscape plan.
      (2)   In addition to preservation of existing woodland areas, the city
shall require significant landscaping and planting in open or disturbed areas
as a normal part of land development. Specific requirements shall be set forth
in this section.
   (B)   General mandatory landscaping and maintenance.
      (1)   All exposed ground areas, including street boulevards, and areas
not devoted to off-street parking, drives, sidewalks, patios or other such
improvements shall be landscaped with grass, shrubs, trees (except in boulevard
portions of the public right-of-way) or other ornamental landscape materials
within six months following the date of building occupancy, as determined by
the certificate of occupancy. Grass shall be sod or seed placed over a minimum
of four inches of black dirt.
      (2)   All landscaped areas shall be maintained by the property owner and
kept neat, clear and uncluttered, and where landscaping is required as part of
city approvals, any plant material which is diseased or dies shall be replaced
with like kind of the original size. No landscaped area shall be used for the
parking of vehicles or for the storage or display of materials, supplies or
merchandise, unless specifically approved by the city.
      (3)   Fences and/or plantings placed upon utility easements are subject
to removal by the city or utility company if required for maintenance or
improvement of the utility. In such case, costs for removal and replacement
shall be the responsibility of the property owner. Trees on utility easements
containing overhead wires shall not exceed 15 feet in height, and such trees
shall be the property owner’s responsibility to maintain.
   (C)   Required landscaping.
      (1)   Landscaping. Required landscaping for new residential subdivisions
and commercial, industrial or institutional uses shall include plantings at the
property perimeter, off-street parking perimeter landscaping and interior
landscape plantings as well as required residential buffer yard or transitional
buffer zone plantings.
      (2)   Standards and criteria. All landscaping required by this section
shall conform to the following standards and criteria:
         (a)   Minimum size. All plants must at least equal the following
minimum size in conformance with American Nursery Association standards
measured from the top of the ball or container to the top of the tree/shrub or
bottom of the evergreen leader as shown below:
 Balled And Burlapped/Container
                                        Balled And Burlapped/Container
Shade trees                             21/2 inch diameter
Ornamental trees (flowering crabs,      2 inch diameter single stem or 6 - 7
hawthorn serviceberry, etc.)            foot clump form
Coniferous evergreen trees              6 feet
Tall growing shrubs and hedge material  24 - 36 inch
(evergreen or deciduous)
Low growing shrubs:                      
   Deciduous                         18 - 24 inch
   Coniferous evergreen              18 - 24 inch
   Spreading coniferous evergreen    18 - 24 inch spread
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c37d891546e675fbe9f196ea5ce416791fcf4ae2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1520.jpg]
 
         (b)   Spacing of required plantings.
            1.   Tree centers shall not be located closer than ten feet from
the fence line or property line and shrub centers shall not be less than five
feet from the fence or property line. Trees and shrubs shall not be planted to
conflict with public plantings, sidewalks, trails, fences, parking areas, and
driveways based on the judgment of the City Administrator.
            2.   Where plant materials are planted in two or more rows to
comply with the minimum width of a required greenbelt, plantings shall be
staggered in rows unless otherwise approved by the City Administrator.
            3.   Deciduous trees intended for screening shall be planted not
more than 40 feet apart. Evergreen trees intended for screening shall be
planted so that their branches are touching at the narrowest projected mature
canopy width.
            4.   Where massing of plants or screening is intended, large
deciduous shrubs shall be planted so that their branches are touching at the
narrowest projected mature width.
            5.   Trees shall be planted outside of drainage and utility
easements unless approved by the City Administrator.
         (c)   Acceptable tree species. Trees suitable for complying with this
section shall be limited to those listed under division (E) below.
         (d)   Design.
            1.   All areas within the property lines (or beyond, if site
grading extends beyond) shall be treated. All exterior areas not paved or
designated as roads, parking, or storage must be planted into ornamental
vegetation (lawns, ground covers, or shrubs) unless otherwise approved by the
City Administrator.
            2.   Turf slopes in excess of three to one (3:1) are prohibited.
            3.   All plants required as part of an approved landscaping plan
shall be maintained and kept alive and in good condition. Dead plants or plants
in poor health or condition shall be treated or replaced in accordance with the
approved landscape plan as determined by the City Administrator. Any species
substitutions for replacement trees or shrubs shall be subject to approval by
the City Administrator and must be demarcated on the final approved landscape
plan submitted to the city.
            4.   In any development in which at least eight trees or foundation
plantings are required, at least three varieties of plantings are required. In
residential subdivisions, at least three varieties of front yard shade trees
are required on each side of a street.
         (e)   Landscape guarantee.
            1.   All new plants shall be guaranteed for 12 months from the time
planting has been completed.
            2.   All plants shall be alive, in good health, of good quality and
structural condition, and insect and disease free at the end of the warranty
period or be replaced.
            3.   Any replacements shall be warranted for 12 months from the
time of planting.
      (3)   Off-street parking areas. All off-street parking areas with five or
more parking spaces or any parking area within 20 feet of a residential zoning
district shall be screened from view as follows:
         (a)   Installation of shade, ornamental and/or evergreen trees at the
perimeter of the parking area meeting the spacing requirements of this section.
         (b)   For all commercial and institutional uses, and for those
industrial uses abutting a residential zoning district, a continuous opaque
barrier with a minimum height of three and one-half feet and a maximum height
of five feet shall be provided along the perimeter abutting public rights-of-
way and residentially zoned properties that consists of plantings, hedges,
decorative or ornamental fences, walls or earth berms or any combination
thereof.
         (c)   Landscaping shall be set back two feet from parking stalls to
allow parking of vehicles without extending over the landscaped area.
      (4)   Residential buffer yards. The following additional landscaping
requirements shall be required for double frontage parcels:
         (a)   Screening plan required. For applicable subdivisions, a
comprehensive screening plan shall be submitted. The plan shall identify all
proposed buffer screening in both plan and sectional view. A certified grading
plan shall be provided prior to installation of any plantings to verify
consistency with the approved grading and screening plan.
         (b)   Design standards buffer yards. Except where natural vegetation
is acceptable, buffer yards shall contain a combination of earth berms,
plantings, or privacy fencing of a sufficient density to provide a minimum
visual screen and a reasonable buffer a minimum height of eight feet.
            1.   The height of the buffer yard shall be measured along a line
drawn at the back of the curb of the roadway, or the edge of bituminous, to the
ground elevation at the rear line of the building pad to the height of the
plantings to be installed as defined by this section.
         (c)   Plantings. All designated buffer yards must be seeded or sodded
except in areas of steep slopes where natural vegetation is acceptable as
approved by the City Administrator.
         (d)   Walls and fences. All walls and fences erected within designated
buffer yards shall meet the following conditions:
            1.   Walls and fences formally approved as part of the subdivision
and site plan process shall conform to all of the requirements of this section.
            2.   At least 50% of the street side of a screening fence shall be
landscaped with plant materials. Plant materials shall be at least equal to the
fence height.
            3.   Fences may be exposed no more than a maximum length of 20 feet
between landscaping areas or clusters.
   (D)   District requirements.
      (1)   R-1 Low-Density Residential and R-2 Medium-Density Residential
Districts.
         (a)   Each platted detached single-family lot shall have two shade
trees located in the front yard, and one shade tree located in the side yard
adjacent to a street. All other dwelling units shall require one shade tree for
every 30 feet of street frontage to be located in the yard adjacent to that
street.
         (b)   The front and side yards shall be fully sodded. The back yard
shall be sodded to a distance of 50 feet from the rear of the house. All
remaining unsodded areas shall be seeded with grass seed.
         (c)   A landscape escrow shall be secured on all residential lots at
the time the building permit is issued to assure completion of landscaping
requirements. The amount of the escrow shall be established from time to time
by City Council ordinance. The escrow shall be released when landscaping
improvements have been completed as required in this section. If any portion of
the landscaping is not completed within the timeframe required above, the city
may cause such landscaping to be completed and draw upon the landscaping escrow
deposit for the cost of completion. The owner of the property or lot shall be
given notice by certified mail that the city plans to proceed with completion
of the landscaping improvements at least ten days prior to the commencement of
work. The city, its employees, agents or contractors shall have the right to go
upon the property to complete the landscaping improvements without permission
of the owner of the property or lot, and shall not be liable for trespass.
      (2)   R-3 Two-Family and Townhouse Residential and R-4 Multiple-Family
Residential Districts.
         (a)   One shade tree for every 30 feet of street frontage to be
located in the yard adjacent to that street.
         (b)   One landscape planting for every two dwelling units.
         (c)   One foundation planting for every ten feet of street-facing
building frontage.
      (3)   C-1 Highway Business, P/I Public/Institutional and C/I Commercial/
Industrial Districts.
         (a)   One shade tree for every 40 feet of street frontage to be
located in the yard adjacent to that street, except that motor vehicle sales
businesses shall be exempt from this requirement.
      (4)   C-2 Central Business District. One tree for every 1,000 square feet
of total building area. If landscaping cannot be accommodated on site the
plantings shall be placed in a city park or city right-of-way. Placement of
such landscaping shall be approved by the City Administrator.
      (5)   I-1 Light Industrial District. One shade tree for every 50 feet of
street frontage to be located in the yard adjacent to that street.
      (6)   PUD (Planned Residential Development). At a minimum, the
landscaping for PUDs shall follow the respective district requirements above.
Additional landscape requirements may be required as part of the PUD approval
by the city.
   (E)   Tree preservation.
      (1)   Findings and purpose statement. The city finds it is in the best
interest of the city to protect, preserve, and enhance the natural environment
of the community and to encourage a resourceful and prudent approach to the
development and alteration of wooded areas. In the interest of achieving these
objectives, the city has established the tree preservation regulations herein
to promote the furtherance of the following:
         (a)   Protection and preservation of the environment and natural
beauty of the city.
         (b)   Assurance of orderly development within wooded areas to minimize
tree and habitat loss.
         (c)   Evaluation of the impacts to trees and wooded areas resulting
from development.
         (d)   Establishment of minimal standards for tree preservation and the
mitigation of environmental impacts resulting from tree removal.
         (e)   Provision of incentives for creative land use and
environmentally compatible site design which preserves trees and minimizes tree
removal and clear-cutting during development.
         (f)   Enforcement of tree preservation standards to promote and
protect the public health, safety and welfare of the city.
      (2)   Application. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
subdivision, grading permits, or construction, except for preliminary plats
approved by the city prior to the adoption hereof.
      (3)   Process.
         (a)   For developers. The following process for preserving trees shall
be required from the developer:
            1.   Prepare a tree preservation plan which shall be incorporated
on the grading plan.
            2.   Implement the tree preservation plan prior to and during site
development.
            3.   Submit a performance of financial guarantee for compliance
with the approved tree preservation plan.
            4.   Comply with the city’s tree replacement procedure.
            5.   The tree preservation plan shall be submitted with preliminary
plat plans or as part of the application for a grading permit. The tree
preservation plan must be certified by a forester, landscape architect, or
nurseryman retained by the developer.
            6.   The plat and grading plans will not be approved by the city
without an approved tree preservation plan. In the case of grading permit
applications, the tree preservation plan will be approved by the City
Administrator. This decision may be appealed directly to the City Council.
         (b)   For home and business owners. The following process for
preserving trees shall be required from the home and business owner if trees
are being removed during grading or construction:
            1.   Identify the significant trees on the property, which
significant trees will be removed due to grading or construction and the
protection measures used to protect the preserved trees during grading or
construction.
            2.   Comply with the city’s tree replacement procedure.
            3.   The tree preservation plan shall be submitted with the grading
permit or building permit application. The tree preservation plan may be
prepared by the applicant of the grading permit or the building permit. The
tree preservation plan will be approved by city staff. This decision may be
appealed directly to the City Council.
      (4)   Tree preservation plan.
         (a)   The developer shall be responsible for implementing the tree
preservation plan prior to and during site grading and plan development.
         (b)   The tree preservation plan will be reviewed by the City
Administrator to assess the best overall design for the project taking into
account significant trees and ways to enhance the efforts of the developer to
mitigate corresponding damage.
         (c)   The developer is encouraged to meet with staff prior to
submission of the preliminary plat application or prior to application for the
grading permit, whichever is sooner, to determine the placement of buildings,
parking, driveways, streets, storage and other physical features which result
in the fewest significant trees being destroyed or damaged.
         (d)   Mandatory protection. Measures to protect significant trees
shall include the installation of snow fencing, silt fence, or polyethylene
laminate safety netting placed at the drip line of significant trees to be
preserved.
      (5)   Significant tree removal.
         (a)   Significant tree removal for developments.
            1.   Applicant shall retain the maximum amount of significant trees
possible.
            2.   Forty percent of the existing caliper inches of significant
trees may be removed during development without obligation of replacement.
            3.   Any removal beyond 40% will require replacement as described
in division (E)(7) below.
         (b)   Significant tree removal for home and business owners.
            1.   Thirty percent of the existing caliper inches of trees may be
removed during home or business construction without obligation of replacement.
            2.   Any removal beyond 30% will require replacement as described
in division (E)(7) below.
         (c)   Trees exempt from replacement. The following types of trees
shall not be included as part of the tally of tree removals and shall not be
required to be replaced:
            1.   Dead, diseased, or dying trees.
            2.   Invasive species.
            3.   Trees that are transplanted from the site to another
appropriate area within the city.
            4.   Trees that were planted as part of a commercial business such
as a tree farm or nursery.
      (6)   Financial guarantee. The city may, at its option, withhold
occupancy certification or require cash, a letter of credit or a bond
satisfactory to the city in the amount of 125% of the value of the landscaping,
securing the full performance of landscaping requirements. The amount of the
security shall be determined by the contract value of the required improvements
and may be held by the city for one full year from the date improvements were
completed.
      (7)   Tree replacement.
         (a)   Tree replacement formula. Replacement of removed or disturbed
trees in excess of the percentage allowed shall be according to the following
guidelines:
            1.   For development which exceeds the percentage of allowable
removal of significant trees, all significant trees shall be replaced at the
ratio of one-half caliper inch per one caliper inch removed.
         (b)   Size, types, and diversification of replacement trees.
Replacement trees shall be of a similar species to those that are removed, but
also shall be a minimum of 25% conifers and 25% deciduous hardwoods.
Replacement trees must be no less than the following sizes:
            1.   Deciduous trees shall be no less than two and one-half caliper
inches.
            2.   Coniferous trees shall be no less than six feet high.
         (c)   Acceptable tree replacement species. The following list of trees
are acceptable for tree replacement species. The city may, at its discretion,
approve additional species if circumstances such as soil conditions, hydrology,
topography, or recent tree diseases warrant.
            1.   Black cherry.
            2.   Cedar.
            3.   Fir.
            4.   Hickory.
            5.   Linden.
            6.   Maple (except silver maples).
            7.   Oak.
            8.   Pine.
            9.   Spruce.
            10.   Walnut.
         (d)   Fee in lieu of tree replacement or replacement trees planted in
public areas. The city recognizes that there may be instances where the total
amount of tree replacement required cannot occur on site or that there are some
land uses (such as refining) that are not compatible with trees. In those
instances, the city may, at its option, accept a fee in lieu of tree placement
or allow the planting of replacement trees in public areas. Tree replacement is
encouraged to happen on site as much as possible and fee in lieu of tree
replacement should be used only when replacement cannot occur on site. The fee
in lieu of tree replacement will be determined annually by the City Council
through the city fee schedule.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.057 FENCES.
   (A)   Location. Fences constructed at the limits of a property shall comply
with the following provisions:
      (1)   Fences, including footings, shall be located entirely upon the
private property for which the building permit has been issued.
      (2)   The owner of the property on which a fence exists or is proposed to
be constructed is responsible for verifying their property lines by:
         (a)   Locating their property irons; or
         (b)   If the property lines cannot be located:
            1.   The City Administrator may require the owner of property upon
which a fence now exists, or may require any property owner proposing to
construct a fence to establish the boundary lines of the property by a survey
thereof to be made by a registered land surveyor; or
            2.   The owner of property upon which a fence now exists, or the
property owner on which the fence is to be constructed and the owner(s) of the
adjoining properties agree to a common boundary fence agreement regarding the
location of the fence. The agreement is to be signed by the adjoining property
owners(s) on the City of Mayer common property fence form and kept on file at
City Hall.
      (3)   No fences shall be placed on or extend into public rights-of-way or
onto public property.
      (4)   Fences in easements shall not impede the flow of water. If the city
needs to utilize the easement, the fence will be removed and relocated at the
expense of the property owner.
   (B)   Building permit required.
      (1)   Fences shall be permitted in all yards and no fence shall be
constructed without a building permit. An application for a fence building
permit shall be submitted to the city and shall be accompanied by the
following:
         (a)   A fence elevation sketch showing/describing the type of
materials, dimensions, and color.
         (b)   If required, a certified survey (to scale) prepared by a
registered land surveyor showing and including the following:
            1.   Property address;
            2.   Legal descriptions of adjoining properties and property lines;
            3.   Existing structures and hard surface areas;
            4.   North arrow;
            5.   Easements;
            6.   Setback dimensions;
            7.   Proposed fence location;
            8.   Dimensions from property line to fence.
         (c)   Method of anchoring the fence.
   (C)   Exempt fences (building permit not required).
      (1)   Temporary fences not exceeding one year in duration.
      (2)   Underground pet fencing located outside of an easement area.
      (3)   All temporary snow-brake fencing, which may be used from first
snowfall to last snowfall.
   (D)   Fencing in all districts shall conform to the following:
      (1)   Every fence shall be of substantial construction using material
reasonably suited for the purpose for which the fence is proposed to be used.
Every fence shall be maintained in a condition of reasonable repair and shall
not be allowed to become and remain in a condition of disrepair or danger, or
constitute a nuisance, public or private. Any such fence which is, or has
become dangerous to the public safety, health or welfare, is a public nuisance,
and the City Administrator shall commence proper proceedings for the abatement
thereof.
      (2)   Fences shall be located entirely upon the private property of the
party constructing the fence unless the adjoining property owner(s) agree to a
common boundary fence, by signing a City of Mayer common property line fence
form.
      (3)   Except for common property line fences, all other fences shall be
set back a minimum distance of two feet from the property line unless otherwise
stated within this section.
      (4)   The owner(s) of the property upon which the fence is constructed
shall be responsible for maintaining that part of their property between the
fence and the property line.
      (5)   Fences in all districts shall be maintained so that the exposed
outer surface shall be uniformly painted or stained in a neat and aesthetically
pleasing condition.
      (6)   Barbed wire fences and electric fences shall only be permitted on
farms related to agriculture in the A Agriculture District.
      (7)   The side of the fence considered to be the face (finished side as
opposed to structural supports) shall face the outside/abutting property or
street right-of-way.
      (8)   Use of mesh HDPE plastic fencing or chicken wire fencing shall only
be allowed on a temporary basis for snow brakes, at active construction sites
or for special events to provide crowd or parking control.
   (E)   Fencing in residential districts.
      (1)   Side and rear yard fences shall not exceed a maximum height of
seven feet. Front yard fences and fences located within the side yard abutting
a street of a corner lot, shall not exceed a maximum height of four feet.
      (2)   Yards abutting public rights-of-way; fences located within front
yards, within side yards of a corner lot, or within rear yards of a double
frontage lot abutting a public right-of-way.
         (a)   Fences located within the front yard shall not exceed four feet
in height and shall be at least 75% open space for the passage of air and
light.
         (b)   Fences located within a required side yard of a corner lot
abutting a public right-of-way or within the required rear yard of a double
frontage lot abutting a public right-of-way shall not exceed seven feet in
height and shall be no closer to the front lot line than a point intersecting
the front line of the principal building.
         (c)   A fence constructed within the front yard, within a required
side yard of a corner lot abutting a public right-of-way, or within the
required rear yard of a double frontage lot abutting a public right-of-way
shall be set back ten feet from the property line abutting a public right-of-
way, except where additional setback is required for the traffic visibility
triangle.
         (d)   For interior lots, a gate constructed of the same material as
the fence shall be provided in the fence to allow for maintenance of the street
side boulevard.
   (F)   Fencing in commercial, industrial and institutional districts.
      (1)   Commercial and institutional districts.
         (a)   No fence shall be erected within a required front yard.
         (b)   Fences may be erected up to a height of eight feet within a side
yard, side yard abutting a public right-of-way of a corner lot, rear yard, or
rear yard of a double frontage lot.
         (c)   District screening requirements shall be met.
         (d)   Fences within a required front yard or fences erected to a
height greater than eight feet may be allowed by approval of a conditional use
permit and shall be at least 75% open space for the passage of air and light.
      (2)   Industrial districts.
         (a)    Fences may be erected up to a maximum of eight feet in height,
except as may be allowed by approval of a conditional use.
         (b)   Fences extending across front yards and side yards abutting a
public right-of-way shall be at least 75% open space for the passage of air and
light.
   (G)   Required fences - swimming pool protection.
      (1)   Outdoor swimming pools shall be adequately fenced with a physical
barrier as a safeguard to prevent children from gaining uncontrolled access and
to prevent uncontrolled access from the street or adjacent property. This can
be accomplished with fencing or the walls of a principal or accessory structure
of sufficient density as to be impenetrable. All fence openings or points of
entry into the pool enclosure shall be equipped with gates or doors. All gates
or doors to swimming pools shall be equipped with self-closing and self-
latching devices placed at a sufficient height so as to be inaccessible to all
small children.
      (2)   Outdoor swimming pools with a capacity of 1,500 gallons or more, or
with a depth of three feet or more of water shall be fenced in compliance with
the following: a fence at least four feet in height measured from ground level
shall completely enclose any permanent outdoor swimming pool, whether it is
above ground, or below ground.
      (3)   Each application for a permit to construct or erect a swimming pool
shall be accompanied by plans of sufficient detail to show:
         (a)   The proposed location of the pool and its relationship to the
principal building on the lot.
         (b)   The size of the pool.
         (c)   Fencing and other fixtures existing and proposed on the lot,
including utility location and trees.
         (d)   The location, size, and types of equipment to be used in
connection with the pool, including, but not limited to, filter unit, pump
fencing, and the pool itself.
   (H)   Traffic sight visibility triangle. On corner lots, no fence or screen
shall be permitted within the area defined as the traffic sight visibility
triangle by §
152.040 of this chapter.
   (I)    Existing fences. No existing fence in violation of this section will
be allowed to be replaced or rebuilt. Should an existing fence be replaced or
rebuilt, it must comply with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.058 OUTSIDE STORAGE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide standards for
allowing outdoor storage of materials, equipment, and vehicles as may be
allowed within the respective zoning ordinance such that the activity can occur
compatibly with surrounding uses and properties.
   (B)   In all districts, all material and equipment shall be stored within a
building or be fully screened so as not to be visible from adjoining
properties, except in the following instances.
      (1)   Construction and landscaping materials, equipment temporarily being
used on the premises and land/sea containers, as long as they are kept in a
manner so as not to create a blighting issue and meet the requirements of this
section.
      (2)   Agricultural equipment and materials if these are being used or
intended for use on the premises in the A Agriculture District.
      (3)   Not more than five licensed and operable recreational vehicles and
equipment may be parked or stored on property outside a building as required in
§
152.067 of this chapter.
      (4)   Public recreational equipment and facilities and recreational
furniture used and constructed explicitly for outdoor use.
      (5)   Off-street parking facilities except as otherwise herein regulated
and except in residential districts where any off-street parking area
containing over six spaces may be required to be screened. Auto repair shops
shall at no time have in excess of six disabled vehicles on the premises that
are not screened from view. A disabled vehicle shall be maintained on the
premises for no longer than six months.
      (6)   Clothesline pole and wires and play equipment.
      (7)   Within the I-1 District, semi-tractor trailers used for normal
freight and cartage in transit for up to 120 consecutive days per calendar
year.
      (8)   Within the A Agricultural District, C/I Commercial/Industrial
District, and I-1 Light Industrial District, land/sea containers which are in
compliance with the following, shall be allowed as outside storage. Land/sea
containers shall not be allowed in any residential districts, the C-1 Highway
Business District, the C-2 Central Business District or the P/I Public
Institutional District unless being used on a temporary basis for construction
purposes or moving, in which case the requirements of this section do not
apply. Applications for land/sea containers shall be submitted to the city to
be reviewed for zoning compliance under the following requirements.
         (a)   Accessory use. Land/sea containers shall be allowed only in
districts where such use is listed as an accessory use as outside storage. Any
other outdoor storage of land/sea containers is prohibited and land/sea
containers shall not be located on the lot prior to the construction of a
principal structure.
         (b)   Number allowed. There shall not be more than three land/sea
containers located on a lot.
         (c)   Use. Land/sea containers shall not be permitted to be rented or
leased to third parties for storage purposes and shall only be for used by the
owner or occupant of the lot.
         (d)   Dimensions. Land/sea containers shall not exceed the dimensions
of 40 feet in length, eight and one-half feet in width and ten feet in height
and shall not be stacked on top of each other.
         (e)   Location. Land/sea containers shall meet all accessory building
setback requirements and shall only be located in the rear yard of the lot or
in the side yard of the lot if the land/sea container is located in the rear
50% of the lot, but in no case shall the land/sea container be located further
forward than the front of the building. Land/sea containers shall not be
allowed on required parking spaces.
         (f)   Lot coverage. Land/sea containers, unless being used on a
temporary basis for construction purposes or moving, shall count towards the
lot coverage requirement of the zoning district the land/sea container is
located in.
         (g)   Signs. No signs or lettering shall be permitted on land/sea
containers other than what comes on a land/sea container as manufactured.
         (h)   Screening. Land/sea containers shall meet the screening
requirements of §
152.055 of this chapter unless the owner paints the land/sea container an earth
tone color to complement the principal structure on the lot. Screening shall be
required when the land/sea container abuts a residential district or public
right-of-way.
         (i)   Exterior appearance. Land/sea containers shall be maintained in
a good condition free from structural damage, rust, deterioration and shall be
painted an earth tone color to compliment the principal structure on the lot if
the land/sea container is not screened per §
152.055 of this chapter.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.059 LOT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lots of record.
      (1)   No lot of record shall be reduced in size below the district
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   A lot of record shall be deemed a buildable lot even though the lot
area and/or dimensions are less than those required for the district provided
the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Evidence must be presented that the lot in question met minimum
requirements for the division of property under ordinance regulations in effect
at the time the property was divided.
         (b)   It fronts a public street.
         (c)   The lot is within 70% of the minimum lot area and lot width
required.
         (d)   A nonconforming single lot of record located within an
Agricultural Zone, guided for residential development, may be allowed as a
building site without variances from lot size requirements, provided that:
            1.   A site plan is provided showing how the land could be further
subdivided in the future to accommodate further development consistent with the
city’s comprehensive plan density requirements;
            2.   Water and sewer connections are installed within the house to
the exterior foundation to allow future connection to municipal utilities;
            3.   An agreement/letter of awareness is executed which would
require the property owner to connect to municipal utilities within one year of
the extension of municipal utilities to the site/area and properly abandon the
private well and/or septic system;
            4.   The site was previously utilized as a building site for
residential use;
            5.   The lot is a minimum five acres in size; and
            6.   The lot fronts a public street.
      (3)   If two or more lots are in single ownership and if all or part of
the lots do not meet the width and area requirements of this chapter, the
contiguous lots shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose
of this chapter.
   (B)   One building per lot. No more than one principal building shall be
located on a lot unless specifically permitted herein.
   (C)   Public utilities required. All residential, commercial, industrial,
public, institutional or other uses that include plumbing facilities shall be
connected to the public sewer and water system.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.060 PUBLIC PROPERTY/RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Street access required. Every building hereafter erected shall be
located on a lot having frontage on a public street, except as specifically
permitted in this chapter.
   (B)   Coverage. The erection and/or placement of any structure in the public
right-of-way or on city property by any person, or group other than the City of
Mayer, Carver County, the State of Minnesota, federal government or franchised
utility shall require the processing of a conditional use permit in accordance
with §
152.012 of this chapter. Exceptions to this provision include newsstands, USPS
mailboxes, essential services, signs allowed under §
152.071 of this chapter, radio receivers and transmitters as an accessory use
to essential services, and personal wireless communication antennas located on
existing lattice electrical transmission towers, provided that the use and
equipment comply with all applicable requirements of this section.
   (C)   Liability. As a condition of approval for the erection or placement of
a structure in the public right of way, or on city property by any party other
than those specified above, the applicant shall be required to demonstrate a
significant need for such structure placement and that it will not interfere or
conflict with the public use and/or purpose of the right-of-way. Additionally,
the applicant shall sign a contract with the city that holds harmless the city
for any potential liability and shall demonstrate to the Zoning Administrator
proof of adequate liability insurance.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.061 GENERAL YARD AND LOT AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section identifies yard, lot area, building size,
building type, and height requirements in each zoning district.
   (B)   High water elevation. No structure, except piers, docks, and retaining
walls shall be placed at an elevation such that the lowest floor, including
basement floor, is less than three feet above the highest known water level, or
less than one foot above the 100-year regulatory flood protection elevation, if
determined, of any adjacent lake, pond, river, watercourse, or wetland. If
sufficient data on known high water levels is not available, the elevation of
the line of permanent aquatic vegetation shall be used as the estimated high-
water elevation. When fill is required to meet this elevation, the fill shall
be allowed to stabilize, and construction shall not begin until the property
has been inspected by the building official.
   (C)   Groundwater elevation. The lowest floor, including basement floor, of
all structures shall be at a level at least three feet above the highest known
groundwater table elevation. If requested by the building official, the
groundwater table elevation shall be determined by a licensed soils engineer
using soil borings, piezometers, or the observation of mottled soils.
   (D)   Building height.
      (1)   BUILDING HEIGHT shall be defined for the purposes of this section
as a distance measured from the mean ground level to the mean height of the
roof as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c37d891546e675fbe9f196ea5ce416791fcf4ae2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1522.jpg]
 
      (2)   The specific regulation of building height within the various
zoning districts shall be as set forth in those sections of this chapter.
      (3)   The building height limits established herein for districts shall
not apply to the following:
         (a)   Belfries.
         (b)   Church spires and crosses or other symbols as an element of the
principal building.
         (c)   Cupolas and domes which do not contain usable space.
         (d)   Flagpoles.
         (e)   Parapet walls extending not more than three feet above the
limiting height of the building.
         (f)   Poles, towers and other structures for essential services.
         (g)   Necessary mechanical and electrical appurtenances, including,
but not limited to, chimneys or flues, cooling towers or elevator penthouses.
         (h)   Agricultural buildings on farm properties.
         (i)   Wind energy conversion system towers as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
         (j)   Antenna support structures as regulated by §
152.065 of this chapter.
   (E)   Dwelling below ground level. Earth-sheltered dwellings, meaning
residential structures constructed so that 50% or more of the exterior surface
area of the building, excluding garages and accessory buildings, is covered
with earth and all applicable codes and ordinances including the State Building
Code are satisfied, are permitted pursuant to applicable regulations of this
chapter. Partially completed buildings shall not be considered earth sheltered.
   (F)   Land slope. No building or structure shall be constructed on slopes of
18% or more in grade.
   (G)   Yards. Except as provided below, no lot, yard or other open space
shall be reduced in area or dimension so as to make such lot, yard or open
space less than the minimum required by this chapter, and if the existing yard
or other open space is less than the minimum required, it shall not be further
reduced. No required open space provided around any building or structure shall
be included as part of any open space required for another structure.
      (1)   Exceptions. The following shall not be considered as encroachments
on yard setback requirements:
         (a)   Cantilever building sections without a foundation and supported
only by one wall of the structure, building elements supported by a foundation
including chimneys, flues, leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels and other
ornamental features up to ten feet in width, and cornices, eaves, gutters, and
the like may project not more than two feet into a yard.
         (b)   Ramps, lifts, railings, landings or other structures only to the
extent necessary to provide access to the building for persons with
disabilities in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act
requirements.
         (c)   Recreational and laundry drying equipment, arbors and trellises,
gazebos, and air conditioning or heating equipment shall be allowed only in a
rear or side yard, provided they are at a distance of five feet from any lot
line. No encroachment shall be permitted in existing or required drainage and/
or utility easements.
         (d)   No encroachment shall be permitted in existing or required
drainage and utility easements.
      (2)   Triangular lots. In the case of triangular lots, where the rear lot
line is a single vertex, the rear yard setback points of reference shall be
determined by measuring the length of the setback distance from the vertex
along the side lot lines. The rear setback line shall be determined by
traversing the lot and connecting these points of reference.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.062 LAND EXCAVATION AND MINING.
   (A)   Any land excavation or mining activity in the city requires an interim
use permit and must meet the following conditions:
      (1)   An application for an interim use permit for land excavation or
mining must be filed with the city, and an approved interim use permit must be
received from the City Council prior to beginning of operations.
      (2)   The applicant shall furnish the city with detailed plans,
identifying existing elevations and contours, material quantities, access/haul
routes and final grades/contours.
      (3)   The duration of a land excavation or mining permit shall be from
April 15 to October 15 of the permit year.
      (4)   Material stockpiles shall not remain after the duration of the
permit.
      (5)   Topsoil shall not be removed from the site, unless authorized by
the city.
      (6)   Mining is an interim use only in the A Agriculture District and is
prohibited in all other districts.
   (B)   A land excavation or mining permit shall not be required for any of
the following:
      (1)   Excavation for a foundation, cellar or basement of a building if a
building permit has been issued.
      (2)   Excavation by federal, state, county, city authorities in
connection with construction or maintenance of roads, highways or utilities.
      (3)   Excavation less than 100 square feet in area or one foot in depth
in a calendar year.
      (4)   Excavation or grading for agricultural purposes.
   (C)   The following rehabilitation standards shall apply to the site of any
land excavation or mining operation:
      (1)   Topsoil shall be removed from the excavation area(s) and stockpiled
for rehabilitation.
      (2)   Rehabilitation shall be continuous, occurring as quickly as
possible after the extraction operation has moved into another part of the
extraction site.
      (3)   The excavation area shall be graded to blend in with the
unexcavated area, without changing or impacting the natural course of drainage.
      (4)   Topsoil shall be replaced and the disturbed area re-seeded prior to
permit expiration.
      (5)   All water areas resulting from excavation shall be eliminated upon
rehabilitation of the site, unless previously approved by the city.
      (6)   The slope of the restored site shall not exceed a five-to-one (5:1)
ratio.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.063 BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Building type and construction. Buildings in all zoning districts
shall maintain a high standard for exterior architecture to ensure a high
quality of development and land use compatibility that contribute positively to
community image in regard to material quality, visual aesthetics, permanence
and stability and to prevent use of materials that are unsightly, deteriorate
rapidly, contribute to depreciation of area property values, or cause urban
blight.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   General design concept. Building or project designs shall
utilize materials, colors, or details to meet the intent of these architectural
standards.
         (b)   Design elements. Projects may be required to utilize building
ornamentation features, including, but not limited to: columns, arches,
parapets, cornices, friezes, canopies, moldings, dentils, corbels, quoins,
rustication, vaults, domes, and cupolas.
      (2)   Architectural and aesthetic compatibility. Buildings in all zoning
districts shall maintain a high standard of architectural and aesthetic
compatibility with surrounding properties to ensure that they will not
adversely impact the community’s public health, safety and general welfare.
      (3)   Permitted exterior building materials.
         (a)   The primary exterior building facade finishes for residential
uses shall consist of materials comparable in grade to the following:
            1.   Brick.
            2.   Stone (natural or artificial).
            3.   Integral colored split face (rock face) concrete block.
            4.   Wood, natural or composite, provided the surfaces are finished
for exterior use or wood of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar,
redwood or cypress.
            5.   Stucco (natural or artificial).
            6.   Vinyl, steel, or aluminum siding.
         (b)   The primary exterior building facade finishes for commercial
uses shall consist of materials comparable in grade to the following:
            1.   Brick.
            2.   Stone (natural or artificial).
            3.   Integral colored cast in place concrete or precast concrete
panels.
            4.   Integral colored split face (rock face) concrete block.
            5.   Glass curtain wall panels.
            6.   Stucco (natural or artificial).
            7.   Steel or aluminum siding.
         (c)   The primary exterior building facade finishes for industrial and
institutional uses shall consist of materials comparable in grade and quality
to the following:
            1.   Brick.
            2.   Stone (natural or artificial).
            3.   Integral colored cast in place concrete or precast concrete
panels.
            4.   Integral colored split face (rock face) concrete block.
            5.   Curtain wall panels of steel, fiberglass and aluminum
(nonstructural, non-load bearing), provided such panels are factory fabricated
and finished with a durable non-fade surface and their fasteners are of a
corrosion resistant design.
            6.   Glass curtain wall panels.
            7.   Stucco (natural or artificial).
            8.   Steel, aluminum, COR-TEN siding.
         (d)   Roofs that are exposed or an integral part of the building
aesthetics shall be constructed only of commercial grade asphalt shingles, wood
shingles, standing seam metal, slate, tile, or copper. Flat roofs, which are
generally parallel with the first floor elevation, are not subject to these
material requirements.
         (e)   Building foundations not exceeding two feet and other such
portions of a building’s facade need not comply with the requirements for the
facade treatment or materials.
      (4)   Prohibited exterior building materials. Unadorned pre-stressed
concrete panels, non-decorative concrete block, sheet metal, corrugated metal
or unfinished metal shall not be used as exterior materials, except in
association with farming activities in the A Agriculture District.
      (5)   Pole construction buildings. Pole construction buildings having a
design that uses augured pillars or columns as footings, shall not be permitted
in any zoning district except the A Agriculture District in association with
farming activities. The construction of pole construction buildings in the
district mentioned, shall be allowed upon the application for and issuance of a
conditional use permit by the City Council.
      (6)   Residential and commercial districts.
         (a)   Except in the A Agriculture District, all accessory buildings
larger than 120 square feet, shall be the same or similar color and shall be
constructed with the same or similar quality and scale exterior building
materials as in the principal building. All accessory buildings shall be
compatible with the principal building on the lot.
         (b)   Accessory buildings for nonresidential uses, including those
allowed in the residential districts, shall be of a similar character, design,
and facade as the principal structure.
      (7)   Exceptions. Exceptions to the provisions of this section may be
granted as a conditional use permit by the City Council, provided that:
         (a)   The proposed building maintains the quality intended by this
chapter.
         (b)   The proposed building is compatible and in harmony with other
structures within the zoning district.
         (c)   The provisions of §
152.012 of this chapter are considered and satisfied.
   (B)   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling units. Except as otherwise specified in the
zoning district provisions, single-family homes as classified below shall have
the following minimum floor areas per unit:
 
1 and 2 bedroom    960 square feet above grade
3 bedrooms or more 1,040 square feet above grade
 
      (2)   Multiple-family dwelling units. Except as otherwise specified in
zoning district provisions, living units classified as multiple family dwelling
(excepting elderly housing) shall have the following minimum floor areas per
unit:
 
Efficiency units          500 square feet
1 bedroom units           700 square feet
2 bedroom units           800 square feet
More than 2 bedroom units An additional 80 square feet for each additional
                          bedroom
 
      (3)   Senior housing. Except as otherwise specified in the zoning
district provisions, living units classified as senior housing units shall have
the following minimum floor areas per unit:
 
Efficiency units          440 square feet
1 bedroom units           520 square feet
More than 1 bedroom units An additional 80 square feet for each additional
                          bedroom
 
      (4)   Two-family and townhouses. Except as otherwise specified in the
zoning district provisions, two-family and townhouses, as classified below,
shall have the minimum floor area per unit:
 
Two-family 650 square feet first floor above grade, plus 100 additional square
           feet for each bedroom
Townhouses 600 square feet first floor above grade, plus 100 additional square
           feet for each bedroom
 
   (C)   Efficiency apartments. Except for senior housing, the number of
efficiency apartments in multiple-family dwellings shall not exceed one unit or
10%) of the total number of dwelling units in the building, whichever is
greater. In the case of senior housing, efficiency apartments shall not exceed
30% of the total number of apartments.
   (D)   Minimum floor area, commercial and industrial structures. Principal
buildings for commercial and industrial uses having less than 2,000 square feet
of floor area may only be allowed upon approval of a conditional use permit as
provided for in §
152.012 of this chapter.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.064 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide performance
standards for the erection, siting and use of accessory buildings, structures
and uses that may be allowed within the various zoning districts to ensure
compatibility with the principal use and with surrounding properties, as well
as to protect the general health, safety and welfare of the community.
   (B)   Agricultural buildings on farm properties. Agricultural buildings on
farm properties in the A Agriculture District are exempt from the requirements
of this section.
   (C)   Residential dwelling accessory uses.
      (1)   Number allowed.
         (a)   There shall not be more than one detached accessory building on
a lot, unless no attached garage is present, then there shall be no more than
one accessory building permitted in addition to a detached garage. When an
attached garage is present, then a detached garage shall be considered an
accessory building.
         (b)   One play equipment structure, open-sided structure, gazebo
enclosed only by screening or clear windows, or greenhouse only with glass,
plexi-glass or similar walls and roof having a footprint less than 200 square
feet shall be allowed in addition to the number of accessory buildings allowed
by division (A)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Site plan approval.
         (a)   Zoning permit required. Detached accessory buildings not
exceeding 200 square feet in floor area shall be allowed without issuance of a
building permit, but shall comply with all other provisions of this section.
Such buildings must receive a zoning permit before they are constructed or
moved onto property. The City Administrator or designee shall review the site
plan and construction drawings to determine compliance with this section and
other applicable ordinances, laws, and regulations.
         (b)   Building permit required. Detached accessory buildings greater
than 200 square feet in floor area shall require a building permit. The city
shall review the site plan and construction drawings to determine compliance
with the Building Code and other applicable ordinances, laws, and regulations.
      (3)   Setbacks and encroachment.
         (a)   For corner lots, private garages (attached or detached) that are
oriented so that vehicle access is directly straight in off of a public street
adjacent to the side lot line shall be set back not less than 25 feet from the
side lot line abutting the public right-of-way.
         (b)   Detached accessory buildings with a gross floor area of 200
square feet or less.
            1.   Such structures shall be set back at least six feet from any
other building or structure on the same lot and shall not be located within a
required buffer yard or drainage and/or utility easement.
            2.   No detached accessory building or structure shall be
constructed within the front yard or side yard adjacent to a street. When
encroachment into the required side or rear yard setbacks for a principal
structure is allowed, such detached accessory buildings shall be set back at
least five feet from all property lines.
         (c)   Detached accessory buildings exceeding 200 square feet in gross
floor area.
            1.   Such structures shall be set back at least ten feet from any
other building or structure on the same lot, and shall not be located within a
required buffer yard or drainage and/or utility easement.
            2.   No detached accessory building or structure shall be
constructed within the front yard or side yard adjacent to a street. When
encroachment into the required side or rear yard setbacks for a principal
structure is allowed, such detached accessory buildings shall be set back at
least five feet from all property lines.
      (4)   Attached garages.
         (a)   The area of an attached garage shall be measured by interior
dimensions.
         (b)   Attached garages shall comply with the following dimension
standards:
            1.   Minimum floor area of an attached garage shall be 480 square
feet.
            2.   Attached garages shall be a minimum of 22 feet in width.
         (c)   Allowed floor area.
            1.   The maximum floor area of an attached garage shall be 1,000
square feet, except that lots greater than one acre in area the maximum floor
area may be 1,250 square feet.
            2.   Storage spaces located directly below attached garages shall
not be considered in determining allowable accessory building floor area.
         (d)   An attached garage or structure attached to or part of the
principal building shall maintain the same setbacks as required for the
principal buildings.
      (5)   Decks. A deck or porch that is attached to the rear of a principal
building may extend up to 50% into the required rear setback for the principal
building.
      (6)   Animal enclosures.
         (a)   Domestic animal enclosures shall not be placed in the front yard
or in the side yards abutting a street, shall not be placed closer than ten
feet to any property line, and shall not be placed closer than 25 feet to any
dwelling unit other than on the owner’s property.
         (b)   No encroachment shall be permitted in existing drainage and/or
utility easements.
         (c)   Screening and/or a hard surface will be required if problems
occur with appearance, noise, odor, and sanitation as determined by the city.
         (d)   No animal enclosure shall exceed 200 square feet.
      (7)   Sewer connection. There shall be no connection to sanitary sewer or
private on-site septic systems from any detached accessory building.
   (D)   All zoning districts.
      (1)   Time of construction. No detached accessory building or structure
shall be constructed on any lot prior to the time of construction of the
principal building to which it is accessory.
      (2)   Requirements. Any structure which requires a building permit or
which is 30 inches or more in height shall be subject to setback, floor area
and other requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Height. All accessory buildings and structures shall not exceed 20
feet in height.
      (4)   The combination of all detached accessory buildings and garages
shall not exceed more than 30% of the yard area in which is it located.
      (5)   Exterior building material. In all cases, accessory buildings shall
be constructed of materials and colors similar to the principal structure, and
in character with the surrounding built environment.
      (6)   Accessory buildings and structures in commercial, industrial and
public/institutional zoning districts, shall maintain the principal structure
setbacks. All accessory buildings and structures for commercial, industrial and
public/institutional uses shall require site plan approval per §
152.015 of this chapter.
   (E)   Waste and recycling receptacles and enclosures.
      (1)   Storage. Except as provided for by this section, all waste and
recycling receptacles shall be stored within the principal structure or within
an accessory enclosure.
      (2)   Enclosures. All waste and recycling receptacles not contained
within principal structures shall be enclosed in conformance with the
following:
         (a)   Exterior walls. Exterior wall treatment shall be of similar
color and materials. Exterior walls shall be minimum of six feet in height or
one foot taller than the dumpster being enclosed and include a maintenance free
front gate for access.
         (b)   Location. The enclosure shall be located in the side or rear
yard and be set back a minimum of ten feet from the property line and shall not
be located within any drainage and utility easement or required buffer yard.
         (c)   Accessibility. The enclosure must be accessible to waste and
recycling collection vehicles.
         (d)   Screening. The trash/recycling receptacles for multiple-family
residential, commercial, industrial and institutional uses shall be fully
screened from view of adjacent properties and the public right-of-way.
         (e)   Approval. The design and construction of the trash enclosure
shall be subject to the approval of the city.
      (3)   Maintenance; security. All enclosures and receptacles shall be kept
in a good state of repair and waste receptacles shall include secure lids or
covers to properly contain the waste and all gates and doorways into the
enclosure shall be kept closed between garbage pick-ups.
      (4)   Exceptions.
         (a)   For detached single-family dwellings, waste and recycling
receptacles not contained within principal structures shall be exempt from
conformance with this section, but shall comply with the following:
            1.   Receptacles shall be located in side or rear yards, but not
the side of a corner lot or rear yard of a double frontage lot abutting a
public right-of-way.
            2.   Receptacles shall be set back a minimum of five feet from all
property lines.
         (b)   Publicly accessible individual receptacles not larger than 60
gallons located on commercial, industrial, institutional or public properties
for convenient disposal of trash items shall be exempt from the enclosure
requirements of this section.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.065 COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE TOWERS AND ANTENNAE.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to establish
balanced regulations for the construction and maintenance of wireless
communication equipment in order to accommodate the growth of wireless
communication systems within the city while protecting the public against
adverse impacts on the city’s aesthetic resources and the public welfare. In
order to accommodate the communication needs of residences and businesses while
protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the community, the
city finds that these regulations are necessary in order to:
      (1)   Facilitate provision of wireless communications services to the
residences and businesses of the city.
      (2)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design,
siting, and vegetative screening.
      (3)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through engineering and careful siting of tower structures.
      (4)   Maximize use of any new or existing communication tower to reduce
the number of towers needed to serve the community.
   (B)   Existing towers and antennas. Antennas, towers and accessory
structures in existence, which do not conform to or comply with this section
are subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Towers may continue in use for the purpose now used and as now
existing but may not be replaced or structurally altered without complying in
all respects with this chapter.
      (2)   If such towers are damaged due to any reason or cause whatsoever,
the tower may be repaired and restored to its former use, location and physical
dimension upon obtaining a building permit, except if it is destroyed to the
extent of more than 50% of the assessed market value, then it shall not be
restored unless the use of such structure shall thereafter conform to this
section.
   (C)   General requirements for commercial telecommunications towers and
antennas.
      (1)   Towers and antennas less than 200 feet in height above ground
level, for wireless communications facilities are permitted upon the issuance
of a conditional use permit pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   Antennas or towers shall be located on the following property:
         (a)   Municipally owned land or municipally owned structures (in
either such location, to be subject to a lease agreement to be entered into
between the city and the proposed user including such terms and conditions
including rent that the City Council deems appropriate under the circumstances.
         (b)   On any land located within the city that is zoned as an
agricultural or industrial district.
      (3)   Antennas attached to existing structures shall not exceed 20 feet
above the highest point of the structure.
   (D)   Conditional use permit requirements. Construction and maintenance of a
wireless communication services, requires a conditional use permit issued by
the city.
      (1)   In reviewing an application for a conditional use permit for the
construction and maintenance of wireless communication services and supporting
towers and accessory structures, the city shall consider the effect of the
proposed use upon the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of
occupants of surrounding lands, the effect on property values of property in
surrounding areas, and the effect of the proposed use on the comprehensive
plan.
      (2)   In applying for a conditional use permit, the applicant shall
provide the following information:
         (a)   Documentation illustrating compliance or pending compliance with
FAA and FCC authorization procedures.
         (b)   Sufficient information to indicate that construction,
installation, and maintenance of the antenna and tower will not create a safety
hazard or damage to the property of other persons.
         (c)   Documentation of the area to be served including a search area
for the antenna location. A narrative describing a search area (with not less
than a one and one-half mile radius) clearly explaining why the site was
selected, and a completed environmental assessment worksheet, including a
summary of relevant conclusions, and what existing structures were available
and why they are not suitable as locations or co-locations.
         (d)   Documentation that the communications equipment planned for the
proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an existing or approved tower or
building within the search area due to one or more of the following reasons:
            1.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified
professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be reinforced
or modified to accommodate planned equipment at a reasonable cost.
            2.   The planned equipment would cause interference with other
existing or planned equipment at the tower or building as documented by a
qualified professional radio frequency (RF) engineer, and the interference
cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.
            3.   No existing or approved tower industrial sites within a one
and one-half mile radius meet the radio frequency (RF) design criteria.
            4.   Existing or approved tower and commercial/industrial sites
within a one and one-half mile radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment
at a height necessary to function reasonably as documented by a qualified
professional radio frequency (RF) engineer.
            5.   A good faith effort to co-locate on existing towers and
structures within one and one-half mile radius was made, but an agreement could
not be reached.
         (e)   A certified survey showing the location of the proposed tower/
antenna.
         (f)   A detailed screening plan.
         (g)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer
that:
            1.   Describes the tower height and design with cross section and
elevation.
            2.   Documents the height above grade for all potential mounting
positions for co-located antennas and the minimum separation between antennas.
            3.   Describe the number and type of antennas that can be
accommodated.
            4.   Documents the steps the applicant will take to avoid
interference with public safety telecommunications.
            5.   Includes the engineer’s stamp and registration number.
         (h)   A letter of intent committing all commercial wireless
telecommunications service towers to allow the shared use of the tower if an
additional user agrees, in writing, to meet reasonable terms and conditions for
structures.
   (E)   Conditional use permits, not required. A conditional use permit is not
required in the following circumstances:
      (1)   Antennas and towers used by the city for city purposes.
      (2)   Adjustment or replacement of the elements of an antenna array
affixed to a tower or antenna, provided that replacement does not reduce the
safety factor.
      (3)   Antennas or towers erected temporarily for test purposes or for
emergency communications. Temporary antennas shall be removed within 72 hours
following installation.
      (4)   Antennas mounted on water towers, public structures or on the roofs
of existing public buildings not exceeding 20 feet above the principal
structure.
   (F)   Fees. Fees issued for a conditional use permit pursuant to this
chapter shall be set from time to time by City Council ordinance. The city
shall not be responsible for incurring any of the costs associated with
providing expert opinions or any charges associated with the approval of this
conditional use permit. The applicant shall also be responsible for the fees
associated with the need for the city’s consulting engineers to review the
applicant’s plans. In addition to any fees associated with the conditional use
permit, the applicant must also submit a performance bond to guarantee all
construction and maintenance of the tower.
   (G)   Standards for the issuance and continuation of a conditional use
permit. All antennas/towers constructed, and all writing therefore, shall
comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Towers shall be certified by a registered professional engineer
under the laws of the State of Minnesota and shall conform to the latest
structural standards and wind loading requirements of the Minnesota State
Building Code and the Electronics Industry Association.
      (2)   An agreement providing for co-location and prompt removal of unused
or obsolete towers shall be attached and become part of the permit.
      (3)   With the exception of necessary electric and telephone service and
connection lines approved by the issuing authority on part of any antenna or
tower, no lines, cable, equipment or wires or braces in connection with either
shall at any time extend across or over any part of the right-of-way of a
public street or highway, sidewalk, or property line.
      (4)   Any ground mounted tower/antenna design shall be such that the
antenna will withstand high velocity wind and seasonal storms. The tower/
antenna shall be maintained by the applicant so as to assure that it remains
upright.
      (5)   Applicant must obtain Federal Aviation Administration approval or
provide documentation that Federal Aviation Administration approval is not
needed.
      (6)   Application must obtain Federal Communication Commission licensure
and approval as required for various communications applications. Applicant
shall follow Federal Communication Commission regulations regarding the
correction or prevention of any radio frequency interference problems.
      (7)   Complete screening shall be provided surrounding all towers in
excess of 15 feet in height from ground level. This screening shall be provided
to a height necessary to cover all supporting equipment or buildings needed to
support this tower. This screening shall be 100% opaque. The applicant shall
also fence off the tower/antenna with a minimum of a six-foot high fence or
barrier with a located gate to prevent public access.
      (8)   No guy wires shall be used to support commercial wireless
telecommunication services towers.
      (9)   Communication equipment shall be fully enclosed in a structure
approved by the city.
      (10)   Commercial wireless telecommunication services towers must meet
the following height limitations:
         (a)   Towers designed for single users shall not exceed 80 feet in
height.
         (b)   Towers over 80 feet and not exceeding 110 feet in height must be
designed for one co-location use at a minimum.
         (c)   Towers over 110 feet in height and not exceeding 150 feet must
be designed for two co-location uses at a minimum.
         (d)   Towers over 150 feet and not exceeding 199 feet in height must
be designed for three co-location uses at a minimum.
      (11)   Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the
surrounding environment through the use of a natural color, except in instances
where the color is dictated by federal or state authorities such as the Federal
Aviation Administration.
      (12)   Commercial wireless telecommunication service towers shall be of a
monopole design unless the city determines that an alternative design would
better blend into the surrounding environment.
      (13)   No advertising or identification of any kind intended to be
visible from the ground or other structures is permitted, except applicable
warning and equipment information signage required by the manufacturer or by
federal, state or local authorities.
      (14)   Applicant must submit proof of liability and worker’s compensation
insurance. All communication towers, their antennas, and associated equipment
shall be insured in the sum of at least $1,000,000 for injury or property
damage caused by structural failure of the tower or associated equipment. Proof
of all of the insurance shall be provided to the city on an annual basis. The
insurance policy shall name the city as an additional insured.
      (15)   The permit will be subject to annual administrative review.
   (H)   Tower setback. Towers shall conform to each of the following minimum
setback requirements:
      (1)   Towers shall be set back from the lot line as shown on a registered
land survey by a minimum distance equal to one-half of the height of the tower
including all antennas and attachments. In industrial and agricultural zoning
districts, towers may encroach into the rear setback area, provided that the
rear property line abuts another industrially or agriculturally zoned property
and the tower does not encroach upon any easements.
      (2)   A tower’s setback may be reduced or its location in relation to a
public street varied, at the sole discretion of the City Council, to allow the
integration of a tower into an existing or proposed structure such as a church
steeple, light standard, power line support device, or similar structure.
   (I)   Lights or other attachments. No antenna or tower shall have affixed or
attached to it in any way except during time of repair or installation, any
lights, reflectors, flashers, or other illuminating device, except as required
by the Federal Aviation Administration or Federal Communications Commission,
nor shall any tower have constructed thereon, or attached thereto, in any way,
any platform, catwalk, crow’s nest, or like structure, except during periods of
construction or repair.
   (J)   Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and towers. In residential,
commercial and agriculture districts, private towers supporting amateur radio
antennas/towers may be constructed subject to the following:
      (1)   Such structures are incidental to the principal use of the
premises.
      (2)   Such structures shall not exceed 30 feet in height as measured from
ground level. Any proposed structure in excess of 30 feet shall be by
conditional use permit.
      (3)   Metal structures shall be constructed of or treated with corrosive
resistant material. Wood poles shall be impregnated with rot-resistant, non-
flammable substances.
      (4)   Every tower affixed to the ground shall be protected to discourage
climbing of the tower.
      (5)   Such structures shall be screened to the greatest extent
practicable to minimize visual impact on surrounding properties. Screening
shall include landscape materials for ground-mounted tower/antenna structures.
The city shall approve screening plans.
      (6)   No tower/antenna shall have affixed or attached reflectors unless
required by the Federal Aviation Administration or Federal Communications
Commission.
      (7)   A building permit shall be obtained prior to construction of such
tower/antenna. All towers may be inspected at least once a year by the City
Building Inspector to determine compliance with original construction
standards.
   (K)   Violations. Notice of violations will be sent by registered mail to
the owner and the owner shall have 30 days from the date the notification is
issued to correct the violation. The owner shall notify the city that the
corrections have been made, and as soon as possible thereafter, another
inspection will be made and the owner notified of the results. If the owner of
the tower does not correct the violations, the city will then take the
necessary steps in this section to revoke the user’s conditional use permit.
Revocation of the conditional use permit will result in the need to take down
the tower. If the tower is abandoned by the owner, and is not removed, the city
shall have the right to use the bond submitted to the city with the initial
application to pay for the removal of the tower.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.066 ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish standards for
alternative energy systems within the city.
   (B)   Ground source heat pump systems.
      (1)   Accessory use.
         (a)   Ground source heat pump systems shall be allowed as a permitted
accessory use in all zoning districts in accordance with the standards in this
section.
         (b)   Ground source heat pump systems in public water bodies or water
bodies owned or managed by the City of Mayer shall be prohibited except for
stormwater ponds managed by the city and when accessory to a city facility.
      (2)   System requirements.
         (a)   All ground source heat pump systems shall be closed loop systems
that circulate heat transfer fluids as allowed by this section through pipes or
coils buried beneath the land surface.
         (b)   Heat transfer fluids shall be limited to Minnesota Department of
Health approved nontoxic, food grade fluids such as potable water, aqueous
solutions of propylene glycol not to exceed 20% by weight or aqueous solutions
of potassium acetate not to exceed 20% by weight.
      (3)   Location.
         (a)   Ground source heat pump systems shall only be located in the
rear yard as defined by this chapter.
         (b)   All components of ground source heat pump systems shall be set
back a minimum of five feet from interior side lot lines and ten feet from rear
lot lines.
         (c)   Ground source heat pump systems shall not encroach upon drainage
and utility easements or any other easement.
      (4)   Screening. Ground source heat pump systems installed for use in a
commercial, industrial or institutional uses are considered mechanical
equipment and shall be screened in accordance with §
152.055 of this chapter, if required. Ground source heat pumps installed for
residential use shall be exempt from the screening requirement.
      (5)   Noise. Ground source heat pump systems shall comply with Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency standards outlined in Minnesota Rules Chapter 7030.
      (6)   Certification. The ground source heat pump system shall be
certified by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., and comply with the requirements
of the International Building Code.
      (7)   Abandonment. Any ground source heat pump system which is inoperable
for 12 successive months shall be deemed to be abandoned and shall be deemed a
public nuisance. The owner shall remove the abandoned system at their expense
after obtaining a demolition permit as follows:
         (a)   The heat pump and any external or aboveground mechanical
equipment shall be removed.
         (b)   Pipes or coils below the land surface shall be filled with grout
to displace the heat transfer fluid, which is to be captured and disposed of in
accordance with state and federal regulations.
         (c)   The top of the pipe, coil or boring shall be uncovered and
sealed.
      (8)   Building permit.
         (a)   A building permit shall be obtained for any ground source heat
pump system prior to installation.
         (b)   Borings for ground source heat pump system where the pipes or
coils are installed vertically below the land shall also be subject to approval
by the Minnesota Department of Health.
   (C)   Solar energy systems (SES).
      (1)   Purpose and intent. Mayer finds that it is in the public interest
to encourage the use and development of renewable energy systems that have a
positive impact on energy conservation with limited adverse impact on nearby
properties. As such, the city supports the use of solar energy systems and the
development of solar farms. Mayer also finds that the development of solar
farms should be balanced with the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare. The city intends the following standards will ensure that solar farms
can be constructed within the city while also protecting public safety and the
natural resources of the city. Consistent with the comprehensive plan, it is
the intent of the city, with this section, to create standards for the
reasonable capture and use, by households, businesses and property owners, of
their solar energy resource and encourage the development and use of solar
energy.
      (2)   Severability. The provisions of this section shall be severable and
the invalidity of any paragraph, subparagraph or subdivision thereof shall not
make void any other paragraph, subparagraph or subdivision of this section.
      (3)   Applicability. These regulations are for all SES and solar farms on
properties and structures under the jurisdiction of this chapter except that
the city requires the owner or operator of solar farms that would generate more
than 50 megawatts of power to get approval for such a system from the Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission (PUC).
      (4)   Types of SES.
         (a)   Roof or building mounted SES. Accessory to the primary land use,
designed to supply energy for the primary use.
            1.   Roof or building mounted SES are permitted accessory uses in
all districts in which buildings are permitted.
            2.   All roof or building mounted SES shall meet the standards of
the Minnesota Building Code and the owner or contractor shall receive a
building or mechanical permit before installing a roof or building mounted SES.
            3.   Color. All roof or building mounted SES shall use colors that
are the same or similar with the color of the building or roof material of the
building on which the system is mounted.
            4.   Roof or building mounted SES shall not exceed the maximum
allowed height in any zoning district and shall not extend beyond the perimeter
of the roof line of the building on which it is mounted. For purposes of height
measurement, roof or building mounted SES other than building-integrated
systems shall be considered to be mechanical devices and are restricted
consistent with other building mounted mechanical devices for the zoning
district in which the system is being installed.
            5.   Roof mounted SES shall be placed on the roof to limit
visibility from the public right-of-way or to blend into the roof design,
provided that minimizing visibility still allows the property owner to
reasonably capture solar energy.
         (b)   Ground mounted SES. Accessory to the primary land use, designed
to supply energy for the primary use.
            1.   Ground mounted SES are permitted accessory uses in all
districts in which buildings are permitted and shall be limited to a maximum
area of 200 square feet in residential districts and shall not encompass more
than 10% of the total property area or lot size in all other districts.
            2.   Ground mounted SES require a city building permit and is
subject to the accessory use standards for the district in which it is located,
including setback, height and impervious surface coverage limits.
            3.   The city does not consider the collector surface of a ground
mounted SES that is not in a DNR designated Shoreland District as impervious
surface. Any collector surface of a ground mounted SES foundation that is in a
DNR designated Shoreland District and compacted soil or other component of the
solar installation that rests on the ground is considered impervious surface.
            4.   The height of a ground mounted SES shall not exceed 20 feet at
maximum tilt.
            5.   Ground mounted SES shall only be located in the rear yard as
defined by this chapter.
            6.   Ground mounted SES shall not encroach upon drainage and
utility easements.
         (c)   Community SES. Community SES shall be accessory to the primary
land use and designed to supply energy for off-site uses on the distribution
grid, but not for export to the wholesale market or connection to the electric
transmission grid. These systems shall be subject to the following conditions:
            1.   Community SES are permitted accessory uses in all districts in
which buildings are permitted except for residential districts.
            2.   Prohibitions. The city prohibits community SES within:
               A.   Shoreland districts as designated by the Department of
Natural Resources (DNR) and the Mayer zoning map.
               B.   Wetlands to the extent required by the Minnesota Wetland
Conservation Act.
               C.   The Floodplain Management Area as approved by ordinance by
the city.
               D.   Residential districts.
            3.   An interconnection agreement must be submitted to the utility
company and proof be provided to the city that the utility company has deemed
the agreement “complete”.
            4.   All structures must meet the setback, height and coverage
limitations for the zoning district in which the system is located, except as
otherwise stated in this section.
            5.   Ground mounted community SES must meet all required standards
for structures in the district in which the system is located.
            6.   Site plan required. The owner or operator shall submit to the
city a detailed site plan for both existing and proposed conditions. These
plans shall show the location of all areas where solar arrays would be placed,
the existing and proposed structures, property lines, access points, fencing,
landscaping, surface water drainage patterns, floodplains, wetlands, the
ordinary high-water mark for all water bodies, any other protected resources,
topography, electric equipment and all other characteristics requested by the
city.
            7.   Power and communication lines. Power and communication lines
running between banks of solar panels and to electric substations or
interconnections with buildings shall be buried underground. The city may grant
exemptions to this requirement in instances where shallow bedrock, water
courses or other elements of the natural landscape interfere with the ability
to bury lines.
            8.   Decommissioning plan. The city requires the owner or operator
to submit a decommissioning plan for community SES to ensure that the owner or
operator properly removes the equipment and facilities upon the end of project
life or after their useful life. The owner or operator shall decommission the
solar panels in the event they are not in use for 12 consecutive months. The
plan shall include provisions for the removal of all structures and
foundations, the removal of all electrical transmission components, the
restoration of soil and vegetation and a soundly-based plan ensuring financial
resources will be available to fully decommission the site. The disposal of
structures and/or foundations shall meet all city requirements. The city also
may require the owner or operator to post a bond, letter of credit or establish
an escrow account to ensure property decommissioning.
         (d)   Solar farms. Solar farms shall be ground mounted SES arrays that
are the primary use on parcel on which it is located and are designed for
providing energy to off-site uses or export to the wholesale market. Solar
farms, including those that are not permitted or regulated by the State of
Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (PUC), shall be subject to the following
conditions:
            1.   Solar farms shall be permitted as an interim use in the I-
1 Light Industrial, A Agriculture and P/I Public/Institutional Zoning
Districts, and shall be processed according to the standards of §
152.013 of this chapter.
            2.   Shall be on properties of at least five acres in size.
            3.   Stormwater management and erosion and sediment control shall
meet the requirements of the city and best management practices.
            4.   Prohibitions. The city prohibits solar farms within:
               A.   Shoreland Districts as designated by the Department of
Natural Resources (DNR) and the Mayer zoning map.
               B.   Wetlands to the extent required by the Minnesota Wetland
Conservation Act.
               C.   The Floodplain Management Area as approved by ordinance by
the city.
            5.   Foundations. The manufacturer’s engineer or another qualified
engineer shall certify that the foundation and design of the solar panels meets
the accepted professional standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
            6.   Other standards and codes. All solar farms shall meet all
applicable local, state and federal regulatory standards, including the State
of Minnesota Building Code, as amended; and the National Electric Code, as
amended.
            7.   Power and communication lines. All power and communication
lines running between banks of solar panels and to electric substations or
interconnections with buildings shall be buried underground. The city may grant
exemptions to this requirement in instances where shallow bedrock, water
courses or other elements of the natural landscape interfere with the ability
to bury lines.
            8.   Interconnection. The owner or operator of the solar farm must
complete an interconnection agreement with the electric utility in whose
service territory the system is located.
            9.   Site plan required. The owner or operator of the solar farm
must submit to the city a detailed site plan for both existing and proposed
conditions. These plans shall show the location of all areas where solar arrays
would be placed, the existing and proposed structures, property lines, access
points to the site, fencing, landscaping, surface water drainage patterns,
floodplains, wetlands, the ordinary high-water mark for all water bodies, any
other protected resources, topography, electric equipment and all other
characteristics requested by the city.
            10.   The owner or operator of the solar farm must submit to the
city a detailed emergency shutdown plan as part of the review process.
            11.   The city allows the installation of small operations,
security and equipment buildings on the site of solar farms as permitted
accessory uses to the solar farm.
            12.   The owner or operator shall contain all unenclosed electrical
conductors located above ground within structures that control access. In
addition, solar farms shall be protected from entry by a minimum six-foot tall
fence. Razor wire is prohibited on all fences. All electrical connections to
the utility system must meet or exceed the National Electrical Safety Code.
            13.   Signage shall be posted at all entrance points to the
property the solar farm is located on that includes at a minimum, the owner and
operator’s name, contact information and emergency phone numbers.
            14.   The solar farm owner or operator shall provide access to the
Mayer Fire Department either in the form of a lock or key to all access points
to the property the solar farm is located on.
            15.   Solar farms that have panels that are ten megawatts or more
shall meet the review and design standards of the MN Department of Commerce
and/or MM Public Utilities Commission (PUC) for solar farms, as applicable.
            16.   Decommissioning plan. The city requires the owner or operator
to submit a decommissioning plan for solar farms to ensure that the owner or
operator properly removes the equipment and facilities upon the end of project
life or after their useful life. The owner or operator shall decommission the
solar panels in the event they are not in use for 12 consecutive months. The
plan shall include provisions for the removal of all structures and
foundations, the removal of all electrical transmission components, the
restoration of soil and vegetation and a soundly-based plan ensuring financial
resources will be available to fully decommission the site. The disposal of
structures and/or foundations shall meet all city requirements. The city also
may require the owner or operator to post a bond, letter of credit or establish
an escrow account to ensure property decommissioning.
         (e)   Additional standards. In addition to the standards allowed
above, all SES shall meet the following standards:
            1.   The owners or operators of SES that are connected to the
electric distribution or transmission system, either directly or through the
existing service of the primary use on the site, shall obtain an
interconnection agreement with the electric utility in whose service territory
the system is located. Off-grid systems are exempt from this requirement.
            2.   Electric SES components that are connected to a building
electric system must have an Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listing.
            3.   All SES shall meet the standards of the Minnesota and National
Electric Code.
            4.   All SES using a reflector to enhance solar production shall
minimize glare from the reflector that affects adjacent or nearby properties.
Steps to minimize glare nuisance may include selective placement of the system,
screening on the north side of the solar array, reducing use of the reflector
system or other remedies that limit glare.
            5.   Setbacks. All SES structures and equipment shall meet the
setback and coverage limitations for the zoning district in which the system is
located, except that solar farms shall be setback from all property lines at
least 100 feet. In addition, solar farms shall be screened from adjacent
residential uses in accordance with §
152.091.
            6.   Abandonment. Any SES which is inoperable for 12 successive
months shall be deemed to be abandoned and shall be deemed a public nuisance.
The owner shall remove the abandoned system at their expense after obtaining a
demolition permit.
            7.   Building permit. A building permit shall be obtained for any
SES prior to installation.
            8.   All SES shall meet ail federal and state requirements
including the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) including size requirements.
   (D)   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS).
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish standards and
procedures by which the installation and operation of WECS shall be governed
within the city.
      (2)   Application.
         (a)   Conditional use permit required.
            1.   The erection of a WECS shall require approval of a conditional
use permit, according to §
152.012 of this chapter.
            2.   Commercial WECS shall only be allowed as conditional uses
within the A Agriculture zoning district on lots at least ten acres in area.
The acreage restriction is required to protect WECS from encroachment by other
uses or structures and to accommodate required setback between the WECS and
property lines.
            3.   Non-commercial, tower-mounted WECS shall be allowed as
conditional uses within A Agriculture, C-1 Highway Business, C/I Commercial/
Industrial, and P/I Public/Institutional Zoning Districts of the city, subject
to the regulations and requirements of this section, provided the property upon
which the system is to be located is constructed and maintained on any parcel
of at least two and one-half acres in size. The acreage restriction is required
to protect WECS from encroachment by other uses or structures and to
accommodate required setback between the WECS and property lines.
            4.   Non-commercial, roof-mounted WECS shall be allowed as an
accessory use on all properties within all zoning districts in the city,
subject to the regulations and requirements of this section. Only one roof-
mounted WECS shall be allowed per lot.
            5.   Site plan drawing. All applications for a WECS conditional use
permit shall be accompanied by a detailed site plan drawn to scale and
dimensioned, displaying the information as specified in §
152.015 of this chapter, including the following:
               A.   Location and height of all buildings, structures,
aboveground utilities and trees on the lot, including both existing and
proposed structures and guy wire anchors.
               B.   Location and height of all adjacent buildings, structures,
aboveground utilities and trees located within 350 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the property in question.
               C.   Sketch elevation drawing of the premises accurately
depicting the proposed WECS and its relationship to structures on the subject
site and adjacent lots.
               D.   A description of the project including: nameplate
generating capacity, proposed tower height, and proposed rotor diameter.
               E.   Engineer’s certification of structure design, electrical
design, and fall zone.
               F.    An elevation drawing of the premises accurately depicting
the proposed WECS and its relationship to structures on the subject site and
adjacent lots.
               G.   In addition, applications for commercial WECS shall
include:
                  (i)   An FAA permit application, if required.
                  (ii)   A decommissioning plan.
            6.   Declaration of conditions. The Planning Commission may
recommend and the City Council may impose such conditions on the granting of a
WECS conditional use permit as may be necessary to carry out the purpose and
provisions of this section.
      (3)   Code compliance.
         (a)   Compliance with State Building Code. Standard drawings of the
structural components of the wind energy conversion system and support
structures, including base and footings shall be provided along with
engineering data and calculations to demonstrate compliance with the structural
design provisions of the State Building Code. Drawings and engineering
calculations shall be certified by a Minnesota licensed engineer.
         (b)   Compliance with National Electrical Code. WECS electrical
equipment and connections shall be designed and installed in adherence to the
National Electrical Code as adopted by the city.
      (4)   Warranty. Applicant shall provide documentation or other evidence
from the dealer or manufacturer that the WECS has been successfully operated in
atmospheric conditions similar to the conditions within Mayer. The WECS shall
be warranted against any system failures reasonably expected in severe weather
operation conditions.
      (5)   Design standards.
         (a)   Height of tower-mounted WECS.
            1.   The permitted maximum height of a tower mounted WECS shall be
determined in one of two ways. In determining the height of the WECS the total
height of the system shall be included. System height shall be measured from
the base of the tower to the highest possible extension of the rotor blades.
               A.   A ratio of one foot to one foot (1:1) between the distance
of the closest property line to the base of the WECS to the height of the
system. If the property the WECS is located on is adjacent to a residential
zoned property an additional setback of ten feet shall be added.
               B.   A maximum system height of 175 feet.
            2.   The shortest height of the two above mentioned methods shall
be used in determining the maximum allowable height of a WECS system. The
height of a WECS must also comply with FAA regulation part 77 “Objects
Affecting Navigable Air Space” and/or MNDOT Rule 14, MCAR 1.3015 “Criteria for
Determining Obstruction to Air Navigation”.
         (b)   Height of roof-mounted WECS. A roof-mounted WECS shall only be
allowed a maximum six feet above the roof line of the building or structure.
         (c)   Setbacks. No part of a WECS (including guy wire anchors) shall
be located within or above any required front, side or rear yard setback. WECS
towers shall be setback from the closest property line one foot for every one
foot of system height. WECS shall not be located within 30 feet of an
aboveground utility line.
         (d)   Rotor size. All WECS rotors shall not have rotor diameters
greater than 26 feet, except that roof-mounted WECS shall not have a rotor
diameter greater than three feet.
         (e)   Rotor clearance. Blade arcs created by the WECS shall have a
minimum of 30 feet of clearance over any structure or tree within a 200-foot
radius.
         (f)   Rotor safety. Each WECS shall be equipped with both a manual and
automatic braking device capable of stopping the WECS operation in high winds
(40 miles per hour or greater).
         (g)   Lightning protection. Each WECS shall be grounded to protect
against natural lightning strikes in conformance with the National Electrical
Code as adopted by the city.
         (h)   Tower access. To prevent unauthorized climbing, WECS towers must
comply with one of the following provisions:
            1.   Tower climbing apparatus shall not be located within 12 feet
of the ground.
            2.   A locked anti-climb device shall be installed on the tower.
            3.   Towers capable of being climbed shall be enclosed by a locked,
protective fence at least six feet high.
         (i)   Signs. WECS shall have one sign, not to exceed two square feet
posted at the base of the tower and the sign shall contain the following
information:
            1.   Warning high voltage.
            2.   Manufacturer’s name.
            3.   Emergency phone number.
            4.   Emergency shutdown procedures.
         (j)   Lighting. WECS shall not have affixed or attached any lights,
reflectors, flasher or any other illumination, except for illumination devices
required by FAA regulations part 77 “Objects Affecting Navigable Air Space” and
FAA Advisory circular 70/7460-1F, September 1978 “Obstruction Marking and
Lighting”.
         (k)   Electromagnetic interference. WECS shall be designed and
constructed so as not to cause radio and television interference.
         (l)   Noise emission. Noises emanating from the operation of WECS
shall be in compliance with and regulated by the State of Minnesota Pollution
Control Standards, Minnesota Regulations NPC 1 and 2, as amended.
         (m)   Utility company interconnection. No WECS shall be interconnected
with a local electrical utility company until the utility company has reviewed
and commented upon it. The interconnection of the WECS with the utility company
shall adhere to the National Electrical Code as adopted by the city.
      (6)   Ornamental wind devices. Ornamental wind devices that are not a
WECS shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter and shall conform to
other applicable provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any
WECS conditional use permit to inspect the premises on which the WECS is
located. If a WECS is not maintained in operational condition and poses a
potential safety hazard, the owner shall take expeditious action to correct the
situation.
      (8)   Abandonment. Any WECS or tower which is not used for 12 successive
months shall be deemed abandoned and shall be dismantled and removed from the
property at the expense of the property owner.
   (E)   Outdoor hydronic furnaces.
      (1)   Purpose. To promote the public health, safety and welfare and to
safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city due to air pollution and human health impacts caused by
the use of outdoor hydronic furnaces and similar devices.
      (2)   Prohibited use. No outdoor hydronic furnace or similar device shall
be permitted within any zoning district of the city.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.067 OFF-STREET PARKING AND DRIVEWAY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The regulation of off-street parking spaces and driveways in
this chapter is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public rights of way
and to promote the safety and general welfare of the public, by establishing
minimum requirements for off-street parking of motor vehicles in accordance
with the intensity of utilization of various parcels of land or structures.
Off-street parking spaces and driveway shall be permitted as long as all
setbacks, design and lot coverage requirements are met.
   (B)   Application of off-street parking regulations. The regulations and
requirements set forth herein shall apply to all off-street parking facilities
in all of the zoning districts of the city.
   (C)   Site plan drawing necessary. All applications for a building permit or
a certificate of occupancy in all zoning districts shall be accompanied by a
site plan, as specified in §
152.015 of this chapter, indicating the location of off-street parking and
loading spaces in compliance with the requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   General provisions.
      (1)   Floor area. The term FLOOR AREA for the purpose of calculating the
number of off-street parking spaces required shall be determined on the basis
of the exterior floor area dimensions of the buildings, structure or use times
the number of floors, except as may hereinafter be provided or modified.
      (2)   Reduction of existing off-street parking space or lot area. Off-
street parking spaces or lot area existing upon the effective date hereof shall
not be reduced in number or size unless the number or size exceeds the
requirements set forth herein for a similar new use.
      (3)   Change of use or occupancy of land. No change of use or occupancy
of land already dedicated to a parking area, parking spaces, shall be made, nor
shall any sale of land, division or subdivision of land be made which reduces
area necessary for parking, parking stalls, or parking requirements below the
minimum prescribed by this section.
      (4)   Change of use or occupancy of buildings.
         (a)   Any change of use or occupancy of any building or buildings
including additions thereto requiring more parking area shall not be permitted
until there is furnished such additional parking spaces as required by this
section.
         (b)   If the existing number of parking spaces provided for a multiple
tenant mixed use, commercial, or industrial building does not conform to the
required number of parking spaces, when a tenant vacates the building, the
parking required by a new tenant occupying the vacated space may not exceed the
parking required of the tenant being replaced. Required spaces of the existing
and new tenant shall be determined in accordance with this section without
reference to the fact that the use is in a multiple tenant building.
      (5)   Disability accessible parking. Disability accessible parking spaces
shall be provided as applicable pursuant to M.S. § 168.021, as may be amended.
      (6)   Abandoned vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to park,
store or leave any abandoned motor vehicle upon any public or private property
within the city, or for any property owner or occupant to permit the parking,
storing or leaving of any abandoned vehicle upon such private property, unless
such vehicle is within an enclosed building or structure.
      (7)   Restrictions on parking.
         (a)   Required accessory off-street parking spaces in any district
shall not be utilized for open storage, sale or rental of goods, storage of
inoperable vehicles, and/or storage of snow.
         (b)   On and off-street parking facilities accessory to a residential
use shall be utilized solely for the parking of licensed and operable vehicles,
except as may be otherwise allowed by this section or the following provisions.
A maximum of five operable and licensed motor vehicles and/or recreational
vehicles and equipment, may be parked or stored anywhere outside the principal
or accessory structures on the lot. Any such motor vehicle and recreational
vehicle and equipment placed upon a trailer shall constitute one motor vehicle
or recreational vehicle and equipment for purposes of this section. All motor
vehicles and recreational vehicles and equipment must be owned by the resident
of the dwelling, excluding occasional guests. Motor vehicles and recreational
vehicles and equipment parked in the front yard area must be on a paved or hard
surface driveway and shall not be located on landscaping except as allowed by
this section.
         (c)   Residential uses. Off-street parking facilities accessory to a
residential use shall be utilized solely for the parking of licensed and
operable passenger automobiles, vans, and trucks.
      (8)   Calculating the number of required spaces.
         (a)   When determining the number of off-street parking spaces results
in a fraction, each fraction of one-half or more shall constitute another
space.
         (b)   In stadiums, sports arenas, churches and other places of public
assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews or other similar
seating facilities, each 18 inches of such design capacity seating facilities
shall be counted as one seat for the purpose of determining requirements.
         (c)   Except as provided for under joint parking and for shopping
centers, should a structure contain two or more types of use, each use shall be
calculated separately for determining the total of street parking spaces
required.
      (9)   Stall, aisle and driveway design.
         (a)   Design standards. Except as otherwise provided for herein, all
off-street parking facilities shall conform to the following design standards:
PARKING LOT DIMENSION TABLE
Angle of Parking Stall Width Curb Length Per Car Stall Depth Aisle Width
PARKING LOT DIMENSION TABLE
Angle of Parking Stall Width Curb Length Per Car Stall Depth Aisle Width
0°              9'0"        23'0"               9'0"        12'0"
                9'6"        23'0"               9'6"        12'0"
                10'0"       23'0"               10'0"       12'0"
20°             9'0"        26'4"               15'0"       11'0"
                9'6"        27'10"              15'6"       11'0"
                10'0"       29'3"               15'11"      11'0"
30°             9'0"        18'0"               17'4"       11'0"
                9'6"        19'0"               17'10"      11'0"
                10'0"       20'0"               18'3"       11'0"
40°             9'0"        14'0"               19'2"       12'0"
                9'6"        14'10"              19'6"       12'0"
                10'0"       15'8"               19'11"      12'0"
45°             9'0"        12'9"               19'10"      13'0"
                9'6"        13'5"               20'2"       13'0"
                10'0"       14'2"               20'6"       13'0"
50°             9'0"        11'9"               20'5"       12'0"
                9'6"        12'5"               20'9"       12'0"
                10'0"       13'2"               21'0"       12'0"
60°             9'0"        10'5"               21'0"       18'0"
                9'6"        11'0"               21'3"       18'0"
                10'0"       11'6"               21'6"       18'0"
70°             9'0"        9'8"                21'0"       19'0"
                9'6"        10'2"               21'3"       18'6"
                10'0"       10'8"               21'3"       18'0"
80°             9'0"        9'2"                20'4"       24'0"
                9'6"        9'8"                20'5"       24'0"
                10'0"       10'3"               20'6"       24'0"
90°             9'0"        9'0"                20'0"       24'0"
                9'6"        9'6"                20'0"       24'0"
                10'0"       10'0"               20'0"       24'0"
 
         (b)   Parking space size. Except as may be specifically provided
herein, parking space shall be not less than ten feet wide and 20 feet in
length exclusive of snow storage and access aisles, and each space shall be
served by access aisles as required by this section.
         (c)   Within structures. The off-street parking requirements may be
furnished by providing stalls within the principal building or detached
accessory structure.
         (d)   Circulation.
            1.   Except in the case of single-family, two-family and townhouse
dwellings, access and parking areas shall be designed so that circulation
between parking bays or aisles occurs within the designated parking lot and
does not depend upon a public street or alley.
            2.   Except in the case of single-family, two-family and townhouse
dwellings, access and parking area design which requires backing into the
public street is prohibited.
         (e)   Compliance. Except in the case of single-family, two-family and
townhouse dwellings, parking areas and their aisles shall be developed in
compliance with the standards outlined in this section and the following
provisions:
            1.   Except as may be required or exempted by the city engineer,
drive aisles and parking stalls shall be constructed in accordance with the
following minimum tonnage standards:
               A.   One and one-half inch wear course.
               B.   Two-inch base course.
               C.   Six-inch aggregate base (class 5).
               D.   Subgrade subject to City Engineer’s approval.
            2.   A minimum one lift of asphalt or other hard surface material
as required by this section, shall be installed prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate of occupancy.
         (f)   Curb cut width.
            1.   No driveway curb cut access shall be a minimum of 12 feet wide
and shall not exceed 30 feet in width, as measured at the property line, unless
approved by the City Engineer where required to allow adequate turning movement
for commercial, industrial, or institutional uses.
            2.   Property access over a surmountable curb shall be limited to
the area of the designated, paved driveway.
         (g)   Grade elevation.
            1.   Parking spaces and areas. The grade elevation of any parking
area shall not exceed 5%, except as approved by the City Engineer.
            2.   Driveways. Unless approved by the City Engineer, the grade
elevation of any driveway shall not exceed:
               A.   Ten percent for single-family, two-family, and townhouse
dwellings.
               B.   Five percent for all other uses.
            3.   The garage slab for single-family, two-family and townhouse
dwellings shall be constructed at an elevation that will permit a driveway with
a minimum slope of 18 inches above the top of curb.
         (h)   Number allowed.
            1.   All property shall be entitled to at least one curb cut
access.
            2.   Single-family uses shall be limited to one curb cut access per
property unless an administrative permit is approved by the City Administrator,
subject to the following criteria:
               A.   The property shall have a minimum of width of 125 feet.
               B.   No access shall be allowed to a collector or arterial
street where there is at least one other existing access to the property.
            3.   All other uses shall be allowed one curb cut access for 125
feet of street frontage.
         (i)   Surfacing.
            1.   All driveways and parking stalls shall be surfaced with
asphalt, concrete or paving brick, except for property in the A Agriculture
District such as farm dwellings and farm operations. Driveways in the A
Agriculture District shall be surfaced from the intersection of the road, for
the first 100 feet of the driveway, with asphalt, concrete, or paving brick or
other approved hard surface, as approved by the City Engineer.
            2.   Plans for surfacing and drainage of driveways and stalls for
five or more vehicles shall be submitted to the City Engineer for review and
the final plans shall be subject to the engineer’s written approval.
            3.   Existing legal nonconforming driveways and parking area
surfaces shall be brought into compliance with this section at the time of any
improvement that intensifies the use of the parking area or driveway.
         (j)   Striping. Except for single-family, two-family, and townhouses,
all parking areas of five spaces or more shall be marked with white or yellow
painted lines not less than four inches wide.
         (k)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area shall be hooded and so arranged as to reflect the light away from
adjoining property, abutting residential uses and public rights-of-way and
shall be in compliance with §
152.030 of this chapter.
         (l)   Curbing and landscaping. Except for single-family, two-family,
and townhouses, all open off-street parking shall have a perimeter continuous
concrete curb around the entire parking lot.
         (m)   Pedestrian provision. All off-street parking areas shall be
designed with due regard to pedestrian circulation. Off-street parking areas
shall be designed such that vehicle and pedestrian circulation is accommodated
in a safe, complementary and orderly fashion. When curb separated sidewalks are
provided at the head of parking stalls, the minimum width of the sidewalk shall
be five feet.
         (n)   Required screening. All open, nonresidential off-street parking
areas of five or more spaces shall be screened and buffered from abutting or
surrounding residential districts in compliance with §
152.055 of this chapter.
         (o)   Parking lot landscaping. All exposed parking areas shall be
landscaped on all sides in compliance with §
152.055 of this chapter.
   (E)   Maintenance. It shall be the joint responsibility of the lessee and
owner of the principal use, uses or building to maintain in a neat and adequate
manner, the parking space, accessways, striping, landscaping, and required
fences/screening.
   (F)   Location. All accessory off-street parking facilities required by this
section shall be located and restricted follows:
      (1)   Same lot. Required accessory off-street parking shall be on the
same lot under the same ownership as the principal use being serviced, except
for combined or joint parking facilities as regulated by this section.
      (2)   Direct access. Except for single-family, two-family, townhouse
dwellings and in the C-2 Central Business District as approved by the City
Council, head in parking, directly off of and adjacent to a public street, with
each stall having its own direct access to the public street, shall be
prohibited.
      (3)   Boulevard parking prohibited. The boulevard (landscaped portion) of
the street right-of-way shall not be used for parking.
      (4)   Prohibited except on driveway. In the case of single-family, two-
family, and townhouse dwellings parking shall be prohibited in any portion of
the front, side, or rear yard except on designated driveways surfaced with
bituminous material, concrete, or paver bricks leading directly into a garage
or on the access to a parking pad on the side of the garage.
      (5)   Parking distance from property line. Except for required driveway
ingress/egress points, there shall be no off-street parking areas or driveways
within ten feet of any property line within the R-4 High Density Residential,
C-1 Highway Business, C-2 Central Business, C/I Commercial/Industrial, I-
1 Light Industrial and P/I Public/Institutional districts. The parking and
drive aisle setback shall be increased to 20 feet where the facilities are
located adjacent to the A Agriculture, R-1 Low Density Residential, R-2 Medium
Density Residential, R-3 Two-Family and Townhouse Residential and R-4 Multiple-
Family Residential Districts. Driveways in the A Agriculture, R-1 Low Density
Residential, R-2 Medium-Density Residential, and R-3 Two-Family and Townhouse
Residential Districts shall be a minimum of five feet from the side yard
property line.
      (6)   All lots having direct driveway access onto major collector or
arterial roads shall provide turn around facilities on the lot to eliminate
vehicles backing onto the roads.
      (7)   The minimum corner clearance from the street right-of-way line
shall be at least 30 feet to the edge of the driveway or off-street parking
ingress/egress drive lane.
      (8)   Driveways should be located as indicated on the subdivision grading
plan, however, an alternate location meeting the requirements of this section
will be permitted.
      (9)   A residential off-street parking area, driveway or parking pad may
be constructed closer to the garage side property line subject to approval by
the city and the following conditions:
         (a)    The adjacent property owner(s) must consent in writing to such
reduction in setback requirement.
         (b)   A building permit shall be required. The property owner shall
submit a detailed drawing of the proposed location of the parking area
including dimensions and distances from the property line, the hard surface
material to be used, proposed drainage patterns and the lot coverage for the
lot. The city may require a certificate of survey if determined necessary.
         (c)    If the off-street parking area or driveway encroaches into a
city easement area it shall be subject to removal at any time by order of the
city. The property owner shall be liable for all costs and expenses of such
removal. Any unpaid costs and expenses shall be subject to special assessment
by the city. The property owner(s) shall be responsible and liable for all
consequences of such construction including drainage matters and shall
indemnify and hold the city harmless from all damages and injuries of any kind.
   (G)   Number of spaces required. The following minimum number of off-street
parking spaces shall be provided and maintained by ownership, easement and/or
lease for and during the life of the respective uses hereinafter set forth. The
city may modify and/or reduce the minimum parking requirements in the C-
2 Central Business District by approval of a site plan per §
152.015 of this chapter, if it is determined that the use is an approved use
within the district and that on-street parking within the general vicinity is
sufficient to accommodate the use.
      (1)   Calculation of required spaces.
USE NUMBER OF REQUIRED STALLS
USE                                     NUMBER OF REQUIRED STALLS
Residential:
Multiple-family dwellings               2 spaces per unit.
                                        2 spaces per unit for uses serving 6 or
Residential care facility               fewer persons in a residential
                                        district.
Residential shelter                     2 spaces plus 1 space for each 2
                                        occupants of maximum capacity.
Senior housing
Assisted living or housing with         1 space per 2 dwelling units.
services
Independent living
                                        1 space per dwelling unit.
Memory care or nursing home             4 spaces plus 1 space for each 3 beds
                                        plus additional spaces as required by
                                        this section for office users.
Single-family, detached townhome, two-  2 spaces per unit.
family and townhouse
Institutional:
                                        1 space per 3 seats of design capacity
                                        of the main assembly plus additional
Auditoriums, theaters, religious        spaces required for adjoined
institutions, sports arenas             facilities, not including private or
                                        private nonprofit baseball fields (see
                                        below).
                                        10 spaces plus 1 space for each 300
Community center, libraries             square feet over 2,000 square feet of
                                        floor area for the principal structure.
Private or private nonprofit baseball   1 space per 8 seats of design capacity.
fields
School, elementary, middle, high school 1 space for each 3 seats of design
and post-high school facilities         capacity of the main assembly, plus 1
                                        space per classroom.
Commercial/Industrial:
Animal hospital/kennel                  1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        clinic floor area.
Auto repair uses                        1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        floor area.
                                        1 space per 500 square feet of showroom
                                        plus 1 space for each 3,000 square feet
Auto sales                              of outdoor sales lot, plus additional
                                        parking required for ancillary service
                                        or repair.
Banquet hall, private or public auction 20 spaces plus 1 space per 200 square
house                                   feet over 2,000 square feet.
Beauty or barber shop                   2 spaces per chair.
                                        5 spaces per lane plus spaces as
Bowling alleys                          required for other uses within the
                                        principal structure.
                                        Drive through: 5 stacking spaces.
Car wash                                Self-service: 1 space per wash bay.
                                        Motor fuel stations: None in addition
                                        to that required for the principal use.
Coffee/doughnut shop with or without    1 space per 50 square feet of floor
drive through                           area.
Commercial self-storage (ministorage)   3 spaces plus 1 space per 100 storage
facilities                              units.
                                        In a residential district serving less
Daycare facilities                      than 12 persons: 2 spaces per use.
                                        All others: 1 space for each 4 persons
                                        of licensed capacity.
Fast food restaurant with or without    1 space for each 70 square feet of
drive through                           floor area.
                                        1 space per exercise station (e.g.,
                                        strength machine or cardiovascular)
Fitness centers                         plus 1 space per employee on the
                                        largest shift plus additional parking
                                        required for ancillary uses.
                                        20 spaces per chapel or viewing parlor,
                                        plus 1 space for each company vehicle
Funeral home                            maintained on site. Adequate stacking
                                        space shall also be provided for
                                        staging funeral processions.
                                        1 space for each 400 square feet for
Furniture sales                         first 25,000 square feet, plus 1 space
                                        for each 600 square feet thereafter.
Instructional classes, dance studios,   1 space for each 200 square feet of
karate centers, music schools and       floor area.
similar uses
                                        1 space for each 350 square feet of
Manufacturing                           floor area, plus 1 space per company
                                        vehicle not stored within the principal
                                        structure.
                                        Boarding house: 1 space per person for
Motels/hotels/lodging or boarding       whom accommodations are provided.
                                        Hotels/motels: 1 space per unit, plus 1
                                        space for every 10 units.
                                        4 spaces plus 2 spaces for each service
Motor fuel stations                     stall plus other requirements for uses
                                        or sale of goods not directly auto
                                        related.
Multiple occupancy retail or service    1 space for each 160 square feet of
buildings with 3 or more tenants        gross leasable floor area.
Office, general and medical             1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        floor area.
Restaurants, clubs, lodges, brewpubs,   1 space for each 40 square feet of
taprooms, tasting rooms                 dining area and 1 space for each 80
                                        square feet of kitchen area.
Retail Sales uses (other)               1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        floor area.
Service businesses                      1 space for each 250 square feet of
                                        floor area.
Theater                                 1 space for each 3 seats of design
                                        capacity.
Trade businesses                        1 space for each 350 square feet of
                                        floor area.
                                        Office: 1 space for each 200 square
                                        feet of floor area.
Warehousing                             Other: 1 space for each 1,000 square
                                        feet plus 1 space per company vehicle
                                        not stored within the principal
                                        structure.
                                        Calculated by City Administrator based
Uses not specified or not precisely     upon, but not limited to,
identified                              characteristics for similar uses and/or
                                        professional studies.
                                        The number of stalls required by this
                                        section for a specific use may be
Reductions in required stalls           reduced based on a parking demand study
                                        prepared by a qualified professional
                                        subject to approval of a conditional
                                        use permit.
 
      (2)   Floor area. The term FLOOR AREA for the purpose of calculating the
number of off-street parking spaces required shall be determined on the basis
of the exterior floor area dimensions of the buildings, structure or use times
the number of floors.
      (3)   Fractional spaces. When calculating the number of parking spaces
required results in a fraction, each fraction of one-half or more shall
constitute another space.
      (4)   Multiple uses. Except as provided for under joint parking, should a
structure contain two or more types of use, each use shall be calculated
separately for determining the total off-street parking spaces.
      (5)   Assembly spaces. In places of public assembly in which patrons or
spectators occupy benches, pews or other similar seating facilities, each 22
inches of such seating facilities shall be counted as one seat for the purpose
of determining requirements.
      (6)   Uses not specified. Uses not specified or not precisely identified
by division (G) of this section, shall be calculated by the City Administrator
based upon, but not limited to, characteristics for similar uses and/or
professional studies.
   (H)   C-2 Central Business District parking.
      (1)   C-2 Central Business District. Within the C-2 District, on street
parking stalls directly abutting a parcel may be counted in satisfaction of the
number of spaces required pursuant to division (G) of this section.
      (2)   Parking space size.
         (a)   For existing off-street parking lots within the C-2 District,
each parking space shall be not less than eight feet wide and 18 feet in
length, exclusive of snow storage and access aisles, and each space shall be
served by access aisles as required by this section.
         (b)   Construction of new or expanded parking areas shall be designed
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (3)   Development and uses. Within the C-2 District, the city may approve
development and uses which do not comply with the required number of parking
spaces through the site plan review process per §
152.015 of this chapter, provided that the amount of parking provided on the
property in question is the maximum amount possible, taking into account the
use and design objectives of the C-2 District.
   (I)   Parking pads.
      (1)   General rules.
         (a)    Parking on landscaping is prohibited except as provided for
herein.
         (b)    All motor vehicles and recreational vehicles and equipment must
be operable and licensed.
         (c)    Parking pad surface materials shall be orderly contained by
delineated edging or in some other effective fashion.
         (d)    All parking pads must not disturb proper drainage or utilities
and shall be setback a minimum of five feet from the property line and shall
not be located in a drainage and utility easement.
         (e)    In cases where improved or semi-improved surface materials are
required, the pad must cover the entire area under the vehicle and cannot be
placed solely under the wheels of the vehicle. The pad must be approved by the
city and be suitable to control dust, drainage and prevent spillage.
      (2)   Rear yard.
         (a)    A parking pad is allowed.
         (b)    A maximum of two operable and licensed motor vehicles and/or
recreational vehicles and equipment are only allowed on improved surfaces in
the rear yard. A semi-improved parking pad is also allowed a long as the
materials used consist of a sand base with river rock used for the semi-
improved surface material and the parking pad is contained by delineated edging
so as to prevent the river rock from spreading into the landscaped portion of
the yard.
         (c)    Any grass or weeds growing around the motor vehicles and
recreational vehicles and equipment shall be regularly cut and subject to the
noxious weed ordinance (§§
93.35 through
93.43).
      (3)    Side yard.
         (a)    A maximum of two operable and licensed motor vehicles and/or
recreational vehicles and equipment are only allowed on improved surfaces in
the side yard. A semi-improved parking pad is also allowed a long as the
materials used consist of a sand base with river rock used for the semi-
improved surface material and the parking pad is contained by delineated edging
so as to prevent the river rock from spreading into the landscaped portion of
the yard. The side yard parking pad is allowed on the garage side only in line
with the garage or in other cases subject to the judgment of the City
Administrator. A side yard parking pad shall not exceed 450 square feet.
         (b)    Any grass or weeds growing around the motor vehicles and
recreational vehicles and equipment shall be regularly cut and subject to the
noxious weed ordinance (§§
93.35 through
93.43).
      (4)    Front yard.
         (a)    Improved or semi-improved parking pads in the front yard are
not allowed, however, the access portion to a side yard parking pad may be
constructed with an improved surface.
         (b)    A maximum of one operable and licensed motor vehicle and
recreational vehicle and equipment are allowed only on an unimproved surface
parking pad in the front yard for a period not to exceed one week at a time for
up to five weeks within a calendar year. The front yard vehicle parking area
shall not exceed 200 square feet.
         (c)    Any grass or weeds growing around the motor vehicles and
recreational vehicles and equipment shall be regularly cut and subject to the
noxious weed ordinance (§§
93.35 through
93.43).
   (J)   Recreational vehicles and equipment.
      (1)    Recreational vehicles and equipment.
         (a)    Recreational vehicles and equipment may be stored in the side
or rear yards subject to the following standards:
            1.   Recreational vehicles and equipment cannot exceed 36 feet in
length.
            2.   Parking for recreational vehicles and equipment must be on
parking pads with improved surfaces that meet the requirements of this section.
All parking pads must be constructed as improved surfaces.
            3.   The designated parking pad shall be setback at least five feet
from side or rear property lines and shall not be located within a drainage and
utility easement.
            4.   Recreational vehicles shall only be allowed in a side yard
when abutting an attached or detached garage.
            5.   The recreational vehicles and equipment within the side yard
of a corner lot abutting a public right-of-way are not closer than 20 feet from
the property line.
         (b)   Any front yard parking of recreational vehicles and equipment
shall not be located on the street and must be located on the improved driveway
surface in the front yard, except as provided for in this section. The
recreational vehicle and equipment shall not encroach on any sidewalk, trail or
public right-of-way.
         (c)    Storage shall not occur in a required off-street parking stall.
      (2)    Residential occupancy prohibited. Recreational vehicles and
equipment, including tents, shall not be used for residential dwelling purposes
or living quarters, temporarily or permanently, except as may be approved in
emergency cases by the City Council.
         (a)   Recreational uses. Tents, playhouses, or similar structures may
be used for play.
         (b)    Vacant lots, recreational vehicles and equipment prohibited. No
recreational vehicle and equipment shall be placed upon any vacant lot within
the city to be used for residential dwelling purposes.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.068 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The regulation of loading spaces in this section is to
alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right-of-way and to promote the
safety and general welfare of the public by establishing minimum requirements
for off-street loading and unloading from motor vehicles in accordance with the
utilization of various parcels of land or structures.
   (B)   Off-street loading required. Any structure erected or substantially
altered for a use which requires the receipt or distribution of materials or
merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles, shall provide off street loading
area as required for a new structure.
   (C)   Number of loading areas required. The number of required off-street
loading areas shall be as follows:
      (1)   Customer drop off spaces. Customer drop off spaces shall not
constitute off-street loading spaces.
      (2)   Number of loading spaces required. The number of required off-
street loading area spaces shall be as follows:
 
Gross Floor Area                    Minimum Required
(square feet)                       Loading Berths
Less than 25,000                    1
25,001 to 50,000                    2
50,001 to 75,000                    3
75,001 to 100,000                   4
each additional 50,000 over 100,000 1 additional
 
      (3)   Reduction in spaces. Reductions to the number of loading spaces
required may be granted by administrative permit upon determination of facility
need.
   (D)   Location.
      (1)   All required loading areas shall be off-street and located on the
same lot as the building or use to be served.
      (2)   Except for uses allowed within residential districts, or unless
located within a structure, loading areas shall be prohibited within 100 feet
of residentially zoned or guided property unless completely screened by an
intervening building. Loading areas not screened by an intervening building
shall be screened from adjacent residentially zoned or guided property by the
use of greenbelts, berms, fences, or walls to provide 100% opacity to a height
of at least ten feet.
      (3)   Loading areas shall not occupy the required front yard, except as
provided below.
      (4)   Loading areas located at the front or side of buildings on a corner
lot adjacent to a street shall be reviewed and approved in the following
manner:
         (a)   Loading areas located at the front of a building or side of a
building located on a corner lot adjacent to a street may be allowed by
administrative permit subject to the following conditions:
            1.   Loading areas shall not conflict with pedestrian movement.
            2.   Loading areas shall not obstruct the view of the public right-
of-way from off-street parking access.
            3.   Loading areas shall comply with all other requirements of this
section.
            4.   Loading areas and associated staging areas shall be screened
from the abutting public rights-of-way.
      (5)   Each loading area shall be located with appropriate means of
vehicular access to a street or public alley in a manner which will cause the
least interference with traffic.
   (E)   Surfacing. All loading areas and accessways shall be improved to
control the dust and drainage according to a plan submitted to and subject to
the approval of the City Engineer.
   (F)   Accessory use, parking and storage. Any space allocated as a required
loading area or access drive so as to comply with the terms of this section
shall not be used for the storage of goods, inoperable vehicles or snow and
shall not be included as part of the space requirements to meet the off-street
parking area.
   (G)   Screening. All loading areas shall be screened and landscaped from
abutting and surrounding residential uses and districts and public rights-of-
way.
   (H)   Size.
      (1)   The first loading area shall be not less than 70 feet in length and
additional areas required shall be not less than 30 feet in length and all
loading areas shall be not less than ten feet in width, exclusive of aisle and
maneuvering space, and 14 feet in clearance height.
      (2)   The size of the loading area may be reduced upon approval of an
administrative permit. To qualify for such exception, the following provisions
must be met:
         (a)   It must be demonstrated that the site cannot physically
accommodate a loading area to the size required.
         (b)   It must be demonstrated that semi-trailer truck deliveries will
not occur at the site or all deliveries will occur at such a time as to not
conflict with customer or employee access to the building and parking demand.
   (I)   Circulation.
      (1)   All maneuvering for off-street loading shall be accomplished on
private property.
      (2)   In addition to the required loading space, all loading spaces shall
include a maneuvering area. The maneuvering area shall not use any of that
portion of the site containing parking stalls or customer service areas.
Maneuvering areas shall be of such size as to permit the backing of truck
tractors and coupled trailers into the loading space, without blocking the use
of other loading spaces, drives, parking spaces, or maneuvering areas on public
rights-of-way.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.069 ANIMALS.
   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide standards for the keeping
of animals in association with various allowed uses in a manner compatible with
surrounding uses and consistent with the health, safety, and general welfare of
the city. The keeping of animals shall be regulated by Title IX: General
Regulations,
Chapter 92: Animals of the Mayer Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.070 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish provisions for
the opportunity as well as controls of sexually oriented businesses and uses
within the city as regulated by
Title XI: Business Regulations of the Mayer Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   Location. Sexually oriented businesses and uses shall be prohibited in
all zoning districts except the I-1 Light Industrial District.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.071 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Findings; purpose.
      (1)   Findings. The city hereby finds as follows:
         (a)   Exterior signs have a substantial impact on the character and
quality of the environment.
         (b)   Signs provide an important medium through which individuals may
convey a variety of messages.
         (c)   Signs can create traffic hazards, aesthetic concerns and
detriments to property values, thereby threatening the public health, safety
and welfare.
         (d)   Over the years, the city’s zoning regulations have included the
regulation of signs in an effort to provide adequate means of expression and to
promote the economic viability of the business community, while protecting the
city and its citizens from a proliferation of signs of a type, size, location
and character that would adversely impact upon the aesthetics of the community
and threaten the health, safety and welfare of the community. The regulation of
the physical characteristics of signs within the city has had a positive impact
on traffic safety and the appearance of the community.
      (2)   Purpose and intent. A sign may be erected, placed, established,
painted, created, or maintained in the city only in conformance with the
standards, procedures, exemptions, and other requirements of this chapter. It
is not the purpose or intent of this subchapter to regulate the message
displayed on any sign; nor is it the purpose or intent of this section to
regulate any building design or any display not defined as a sign, or any sign
which cannot be viewed from outside a building. The purpose and intent of this
section is to:
         (a)   Regulate the number, location, size, type, illumination and
other physical characteristics of signs within the city in order to promote the
public health, safety and welfare.
         (b)   Maintain, enhance and improve the aesthetic environment of the
city by preventing visual clutter that is harmful to the appearance of the
community.
         (c)   Improve the visual appearance of the city while providing for
effective means of communication, consistent with constitutional guarantees and
the city’s goals of public safety and aesthetics.
         (d)   Provide for fair and consistent enforcement of the sign
regulations set forth herein under the zoning authority of the city.
         (e)   Provide for the safety of the traveling public by limiting
distractions, hazards, and obstructions.
         (f)   To establish a permit system to allow a variety of types of
signs in commercial and industrial zones and a limited variety of signs in
other zones, subject to the standards and the permit procedures of this
section.
         (g)   To allow certain signs that are small, unobtrusive, and
incidental to the principal use of the respective lots on which they are
located, subject to the substantive requirements of this subchapter, but
without a requirement for permits.
         (h)   To provide for temporary signs without commercial messages in
limited circumstances in the public right-of-way.
         (i)   To prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this section.
         (j)   To provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this
section.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected, altered, reconstructed, maintained or
moved in the city without first securing a permit from the city. The content of
the sign shall not be reviewed or considered in determining whether to approve
or deny a sign permit. Application for a permit shall be in writing addressed
to the issuing authority and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Names and addresses of the owners of the display structure and
property.
         (b)   The address at which any signs are to be erected.
         (c)   The lot, block and addition at which the signs are to be erected
and the street on which they are to front.
         (d)   A complete set of colored plans showing the necessary
elevations, distances, size and details to fully and clearly represent the
construction and place of the signs.
         (e)   The cost of the sign.
         (f)   Type of sign (i.e., building sign, monument sign, and the like).
         (g)   Certification by applicant indicating the application complies
with all requirements of this section.
         (h)   If the proposed sign is along a state trunk highway or
interstate highway, the application shall be accompanied by proof that the
applicant has obtained a permit from the state for the sign.
         (i)   Such other information as the City Administrator shall require
to show full compliance with this section and all other laws and ordinances of
the city.
      (2)   The city shall approve or deny the sign permit in an expedited
manner no more than 60 days from the receipt of the complete application,
including applicable fee. All permits not approved or denied within 30 days
shall be deemed approved. If the permit is denied, the city shall prepare a
written notice of denial within ten days its decision.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following signs shall not require a permit. These
exemptions, however, shall not be construed as relieving the owner of the sign
from the responsibility of its erection and maintenance and its compliance with
the provisions of this section or any other law or ordinance regulating the
same.
      (1)   The changing of the display surface on a painted, printed, or
changeable copy sign/reader board signs only.
      (2)   Signs six square feet or less in size, per surface.
      (3)   Window signage as permitted in the general standards.
      (4)   Temporary and portable signage as permitted in this section.
      (5)   The standards of M.S. § 211B.045 as may be amended and relating to
noncommercial signs are hereby incorporated by reference.
   (D)   Sign area calculations.
      (1)   The area of a sign shall be computed by means of the smallest
circle, rectangle or triangle that will encompass the extreme limits of the
writing, representation, emblem, or other display, together with any material
of color forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the building facade against which it is placed, but
not including any supporting framework, pole, or bracing. Each surface utilized
to display a message or to attract attention shall be measured as a separate
sign and shall be calculated in the overall sign area. Symbols, flags,
pictures, wording, figures or other forms of graphics painted on or attached to
windows, walls, awnings, free-standing structures, suspended by balloons, or
kites or on persons, animals, or vehicles are considered a sign and are
included in calculating the overall sign area.
      (2)   For monument, ground, and blade signs, division (1) above shall be
used. Only the face that is specifically intended to be used for signage shall
be included when computing the sign area. Any base or other supporting
structure, along with all adjoining structures such as fences or walls shall
not be included when computing the sign area.
   (E)   Fees. Sign permit fees shall be determined annually by the City
Council through the city fee schedule.
   (F)   Maintenance; inspections.
      (1)   Maintenance. All signs requiring a permit pursuant to this section,
together with all their supports, braces, guys, and anchors, shall be kept in
repair and in proper state of preservation. The display surfaces of all signs
shall be kept neatly painted or posted at all times. Every sign and the
immediate surrounding premises shall be maintained by the owner or person in
charge thereof in a clean, sanitary, and unoffensive condition and free and
clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish, and weeds. Notice shall be given to
the City Administrator of any change in the sign user, sign owner or owner of
the property on which the sign is located.
      (2)   Inspection. All signs for which a permit is required shall be
subject to inspection by the City Administrator. The City Administrator or his
or her designee is authorized to enter upon any property or premises to
ascertain compliance with this section. Such entrance shall be made during
business hours unless an emergency exists. The City Administrator may order the
removal of any sign that is not maintained in accordance with the maintenance
provisions of this section.
   (G)   Sign removal.
      (1)   Any sign legally existing at the time of the passage of this
section that does not conform to the provisions of this section shall be
considered a legal nonconforming sign and may be continued through repair,
replacement, restoration, maintenance or improvement but not including
expansion. EXPANSION shall be defined as any structural alteration, change or
addition that is made outside of the original sign structure, sign area, or
design.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the return of a sign
structure that has been declared unsafe by the city’s Building Inspector to a
safe condition.
      (3)   When any legal nonconforming sign is discontinued for a period of
more than one year or is changed to a conforming sign, any future sign shall be
in conformity with the provisions of this section. Any legal nonconforming sign
shall be removed and shall not be repaired, replaced, or rebuilt if it is
damaged by fire or similar peril to the extent of greater than 50% of its
market value at the time of destruction and no sign permit or building permit
has been applied for within 180 days of the date of destruction. The city’s
Building Inspector shall be responsible for making the determination of whether
a nonconforming sign has been destroyed greater than 50% at the time of
destruction. In making the determination the Building Inspector shall consider
the market value of the entire sign at the time prior to the destruction and
the replacement value of the existing sign. In the event that a building permit
or sign permit is applied for within 180 days of the date of destruction, the
city may impose reasonable conditions upon the building permit in order to
mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent properties.
   (H)   General standards. Signs are a permitted accessory use in all
districts subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   No sign shall exceed 250 square feet in area.
      (2)   Signs shall not be erected, placed, or maintained on rocks, fences,
trees, and the like and shall not interfere with any electric light, power,
telephone, or cable wire/fiber or their support.
      (3)   Substitution clause. The owner of any sign which is otherwise
allowed by this section may substitute non-commercial speech signs in lieu of
any other commercial speech sign or other non-commercial speech sign. The
purpose of this provision is to prevent any inadvertent favoring of commercial
speech over noncommercial speech, or favoring of any particular non-commercial
speech over any other non-commercial speech. This provision prevails over any
more specific provision to the contrary.
      (4)   Window signs are permitted in street facing windows provided they
do not exceed 25% of the window area which has street frontage. Window signage
shall be counted towards the overall permitted signage on a building.
      (5)   Freestanding, temporary, sandwich board, portable, or building
signs that project/encroach into the public right-of-way shall be approved by
the city. Projecting signs shall maintain a ground clearance of at least ten
feet. Irrespective of the city and/or other jurisdictional authority’s approval
of the foregoing, the owner of such sign shall be liable for any related bodily
injury or property damage however caused and shall save harmless the city its
agents and representatives from any and all loss or damages.
      (6)   Illuminated signs shall be subject to the electrical requirements
of the Electrical Code of the State of Minnesota. Illuminated signs shall have
a shielded light source and meet the glare standards stated in §
152.030 of this chapter.
      (7)   No sign shall be attached to or placed upon any building in such a
manner to obstruct any window or door for fire escape or be attached to any
fire escape.
      (8)   All off-premise commercial signs are prohibited.
      (9)   Every home or structure having an official address shall have an
address sign that is visible from the street. Address signs shall not count
towards the overall permitted signage on a building.
      (10)   Traffic sight visibility triangle. No sign, except for authorized
signs, shall be erected within a corner lot traffic sight visibility triangle
so that clear visibility of approaching vehicular or pedestrian traffic can be
maintained. Such traffic sight visibility triangle shall mean that visibility
from any street shall be unobstructed above a height of three feet, measured
from where both street centerlines intersect within the triangle described as
beginning at the intersection of the projected curb line (or edge of shoulders
for rural sections) of two intersecting, thence 45 feet along one curb line,
thence diagonally to a point 45 feet from the point of beginning along the
other curb line. Signs within the C-2 Central Business District are exempt from
this requirement.
      (11)   Any additional or other signage not stated in this section shall
require approval of the City Council.
      (12)   All signs along state and federal highways shall conform to state
and federal sign regulations.
      (13)   No sign shall contain statements, words, pictures or drawings of
an obscene nature or character as defined by M.S. § 617.241, subd. 1(a), as may
be amended.
   (I)   Signs permitted in residential districts.
      (1)
 
DISTRICT MAXIMUM SIGN AREA OF SINGLE SIGN TOTAL AREA OF ALL SIGNS
R-1      6 square feet per surface        12 square feet
R-2      12 square feet per surface       24 square feet
R-3      12 square feet per surface       48 square feet
R-4      12 square feet per surface       48 square feet
 
      (2)   The following types of signs are not permitted in residential
zoning districts:
         (a)   Awning signs.
         (b)   Balloon signs.
         (c)   Canopy signs.
         (d)   Shimmering signs.
         (e)   Marquee signs.
         (f)   Pylon signs.
      (3)   Maximum height. Six feet.
      (4)   Setback. Ten feet from property line, plus clear traffic sight
visibility triangle.
      (5)   Signs may be illuminated. Illuminated signs shall have a shielded
light source and meet the glare standards stated in §
152.030 of this chapter.
   (J)   Signs permitted in the A Agriculture District.
      (1)
 
LOT SIZE             MAXIMUM SIGN AREA OF SINGLE SIGN TOTAL AREA OF ALL SIGNS
< 20,000 square feet 12 square feet per surface       24 square feet
>20,000 square feet  36 square feet per surface       60 square feet
 
      (2)   The following types of signs are not permitted in the A Agriculture
District:
         (a)   Awning signs.
         (b)   Balloon signs.
         (c)   Canopy signs.
         (d)   Shimmering signs.
         (e)   Marquee signs.
         (f)   Pylon signs.
      (3)   Maximum height. Six feet.
      (4)   Setback. Ten feet from property line, plus clear traffic sight
visibility triangle.
      (5)   Signs may be illuminated. Illuminated signs shall have a shielded
light source and meet the glare standards stated in §
152.030 of this chapter.
   (K)   Signs permitted in commercial, industrial and public/institutional
districts.
      (1)
 
DISTRICT MAXIMUM SIGN AREA OF SINGLE SIGN TOTAL AREA OF ALL SIGNS
C-1      150 square feet per surface      5% of lot area or 375 sf., whichever
                                          is less
C-2      60 square feet per surface       5% of lot area or 125 sf., whichever
                                          is greater
I-1      150 square feet per surface      5% of lot area or 375 sf., whichever
                                          is less
C/I      150 square feet per surface      5% of lot area or 375 sf., whichever
                                          is less
P/I      150 square feet per surface      5% of lot area or 375 sf., whichever
                                          is less
 
      (2)   The following types of signs are not permitted in the C-1, C-2, I-
1, C/I, or the P/I districts:
         (a)   Roof signs.
         (b)   Off premises signs.
         (c)   Beacons.
         (d)   Spotlights.
         (e)   Inflatable signs and tethered balloons.
      (3)   Maximum height.
         (a)   C-1, C/I, I-1, P/I. Thirty feet.
         (b)   C-2. Twenty feet.
      (4)   Setback.
         (a)   C-l, C/I, I-1, P/I. Ten feet from property line, plus clear
traffic sight visibility triangle.
         (b)   C-2. Two feet from property line.
      (5)   Signs may be illuminated. Illuminated signs shall have a shielded
light source and meet the glare standards stated §
152.030 of this chapter.
      (6)   Freestanding signs shall be limited to one per right-of-way visible
from a public street.
      (7)   Wall signs shall be considered building signs and may project up to
two feet away from the wall. Projecting, canopy, awning, and marquee signs
shall be considered building signs and may project up to six feet away from the
wall. Signs projecting over the public right-of-way shall be approved by the
appropriate jurisdiction. Signs projecting over the sidewalk shall be a minimum
of ten feet above the sidewalk.
   (L)   Master and common sign plans required.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued for an individual sign requiring a permit
unless and until a master signage plan or a common signage plan for the lot on
which the sign will be erected has been submitted to the city and approved by
the City Administrator as conforming with this section.
      (2)   Procedures. A master or common signage plan shall be included in
any development plan, site plan, planned unit development plan, or other
official plan required by the city for the proposed development and shall be
processed simultaneously with such other plan.
      (3)   Amendment. A master or common signage plan may be amended by filing
a new master or common signage plan that conforms with all requirements of the
ordinance then in effect.
      (4)   Existing signs not conforming to common signage plan. If any new or
amended common signage plan is filed for a property on which existing signs are
located, it shall include a schedule for bringing into conformance, within
three years, all signs not conforming to the proposed amended plan or to the
requirements of this chapter in effect on the date of submission.
      (5)   Master signage plan. For any lot on which the owner proposes to
erect one or more signs requiring a permit, unless such lot is included in a
common signage plan, the owner shall submit to the city a master signage plan
containing the following:
         (a)   An accurate plot plan of the lot, at such scale as the City
Administrator may reasonably require.
         (b)   Location of buildings, parking lots, driveways, and landscaped
areas on such lot.
         (c)   Computation of the maximum total sign area, the maximum area for
individual signs, the height of signs and the number of freestanding signs
allowed on the lot(s) included in the plan under this section.
         (d)   An accurate indication on the plot plan of the proposed location
of each present and future sign of any type, whether requiring a permit or not,
except that incidental signs need not be shown.
      (6)   Common signage plan.
         (a)   If the owners of two or more contiguous lots or the owner of a
single lot with more than one building (not including any accessory building)
file with the Administrator for such lots a common signage plan conforming with
the provisions of this section, a 25% increase in the maximum total sign area
shall be allowed for each included lot. This bonus shall be allocated within
each zone lot as the owner(s) elects.
         (b)   The common signage plan shall contain all of the information
required for a master signage plan and shall also specify standards for
consistency among all signs on the zone lots affected by the plan with regard
to: color scheme, lettering or graphic style, lighting, location of each sign
on the buildings, material, and sign proportions.
   (M)   Sandwich board signs.
      (1)   Sandwich board signs shall be allowed in all zoning districts
within the city, except that in residential districts sandwich board signs will
be permitted only for non-residential uses and uses by conditional use permit.
      (2)   There shall be only one sandwich board sign allowed for each
entity.
      (3)   Sandwich board signs shall be considered temporary signage.
      (4)   Sandwich board signs shall not exceed eight square feet in size per
surface area.
      (5)   Sandwich board signs may be placed on a public sidewalk or within
the public right-of-way. If placed on a sidewalk, a sandwich board sign shall
not take up more than two feet of sidewalk width and shall not be placed in the
middle of the sidewalk.
      (6)   Sandwich board signs may be removed by the city if they interfere
with any city activities (i.e., snow removal, maintenance of the surrounding
area, and the like).
      (7)   Public sidewalk sandwich board signs shall be displayed only during
the times that the entity is open. No public sidewalk sandwich board sign shall
be displayed overnight or when there has been any snow accumulation. Sandwich
board signs that do not comply with this requirement may be removed and
disposed of by the city.
      (8)   Sandwich board signs shall be weighed down.
      (9)   Under no circumstances shall a sandwich board sign be used instead
of permanent building signage.
      (10)   Sandwich board signs shall be taken down after business hours.
      (11)   Sandwich board signs that do not comply with the regulations
stated above may be removed and disposed of by the city.
   (N)   Temporary and portable signs (private property).
      (1)   Temporary and portable signage on private property is allowed over
and above the typical signage limit allowed on a property for permanent
signage. Temporary and portable signs shall not be used in place of permanent
signage.
      (2)   No more than four temporary and/or portable signs shall be allowed
per lot within the Commercial, Public/Institutional, and Industrial Districts.
No more than three temporary and/or portable frontage signs shall be allowed.
The signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in size per surface with a maximum of
two surfaces.
      (3)   There shall be no more than two temporary and portable signs not
exceeding 12 square feet per surface with a maximum of two surfaces per lot for
residential garage/yard sales.
      (4)   In all districts, no more than two temporary real estate sale/lease
signs, not exceeding 32 square feet, shall be allowed per lot/entity. Real
estate/lease signs shall not be placed in the public right-of-way.
      (5)   Upon written request to the City Administrator, additional
temporary or portable signs may be allowed in appropriate circumstances. The
number of additional temporary signs shall be subject to City Administrator
approval and the City Administrator may place reasonable restrictions on the
use and placement of such signs.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND ZONING MAP
§ 152.080 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In order to classify, regulate and restrict the location of trade and
industry, and the location of buildings designated for specific uses, to
protect residential uses, to regulate and limit the height and bulk of
buildings hereafter erected or altered, to regulate and limit the intensity of
the use of lot areas, and to regulate and determine the areas of yards and open
space within and surrounding such buildings, the city is hereby divided into
zoning districts. The use, height and area regulations shall be uniform in each
zoning district, and the zoning districts shall be known as:
A-1 Agriculture District
R-1 Single-Family Residential District
R-2 Single and Two-Family Residential District
R-3 Two-Family and Townhouse Residential District
R-4 Multiple-Family Residential District
C-1 Highway Business District
C-2 Central Business District
C/I Commercial/Industrial District
I-1 Light Industrial District
P/I Public/Institutional District
SL  Shoreland Overlay District
FP  Floodplain Management Overlay District
PUD Planned Unit Development Overlay District
 
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.081 GEOGRAPHIC JURISDICTION.
   The geographic jurisdiction of this chapter shall be the entire area within
the corporate limits of Mayer, Minnesota.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.082 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established by this
chapter are hereby set forth on the zoning map entitled “Mayer Zoning Map.” The
map shall be on file with the City Clerk, and hereinafter referred to as the
“zoning map.” The map and all the notations, references and other information
shown thereon shall have the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein
and thereby made a part of this chapter by reference. It is the responsibility
of the City Administrator to maintain the zoning map, and amendments thereto
shall be recorded on the map.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.083 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICTS MAP.
   Zoning district boundary lines established by this chapter generally follow
lot lines, the centerlines of railroad rights-of-way, street rights-of-way,
watercourses or the corporate limit lines, all as they exist upon the effective
date of this chapter. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries as shown on
the official zoning map, the following rules will apply:
   (A)   Appeals concerning the exact location of a zoning district boundary
line shall be heard by the Board of Appeals and Adjustments pursuant to §
152.011 of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by official
action of the city, the zoning district adjoining each side of such street,
alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of such
vacation, and all area included in the vacation shall then and henceforth be
subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
   (C)   All streets, alleys, public ways and railroad rights-of-way, if not
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as
the property in the most restrictive classification immediately abutting upon
such alleys, streets, public ways or railroad rights-of-way. Where the
centerline of a street, alley, public way or railroad right-of-way serves as a
district boundary, the zoning of such areas, unless otherwise specifically
designated, shall be deemed to be the same as that of the abutting property up
to such centerline.
   (D)   All areas within the corporate limits of the city which are underwater
and which are not shown as included within any zone shall be subject to all
regulations of the zone which immediately adjoins such water area. If such
water area adjoins two or more zones, the boundaries of each zone shall be
construed to be extended into the water area in a straight line until they meet
the other district at the halfway point and/or to the corporate limits.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.084 ANNEXATIONS.
   All land hereafter annexed to the city which is not shown on the zoning map
shall automatically, upon annexation, be classified with the (A-1) Agriculture
District and shall be subject to all regulations, notations, references and
conditions as are applicable to the District until such time that a
determination may be made as to the proper zoning district classification for
such land and an amendment can be made to that effect.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.085 (A-1) AGRICULTURE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the A-1 District is to recognize the existing
agricultural use of the land and provide for an orderly means whereby lands in
the city can be preserved in an undeveloped state until development at urban
densities with public sewer and water as uses defined by the city’s
comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following uses are permitted in the A-
1 District:
      (1)   Farms, agriculture, nurseries, wholesale nurseries, greenhouses,
and tree farms, not including animal feedlots, vegetable, fruit, crop, sod and
horticulture production.
      (2)   Animal husbandry or keeping of animals, not exceeding one animal
unit per acre.
      (3)   Single-family detached dwellings.
      (4)   Public parks, trails, playgrounds, recreation facilities and
directly related buildings and structures.
      (5)   Residential facility servicing six or fewer persons in a single-
family detached dwelling.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, the following are permitted accessory
uses in the A-1 District:
      (1)   Solar energy systems, ground source heat pump systems and roof-
mounted wind energy conversion systems (WCES) as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (2)   Home occupations.
      (3)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental and
directly related to the uses allowed as permitted, conditional, interim, and
administrative permit in this section, subject to applicable regulation of this
chapter.
      (4)   Daycare facilities serving 14 or fewer persons in a single-family
detached dwelling.
      (5)   Fences.
      (6)   Roadside stand for sale of in season agricultural products planted
and completely grown on the premises.
      (7)   Signs.
   (D)   Conditional uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following are conditional uses in the A-
1 District and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by §
152.012 of this chapter.
      (1)   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS) mounted on a tower.
      (2)   Farm buildings for the keeping of farm animals that are located
within 300 of an existing residence on an abutting property or residential
platted lot not under the same ownership as the parcel on which the buildings
are constructed.
   (E)   Interim uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of this
section, the following are interim uses in the A-1 District and are further
governed by §
152.013 of this chapter.
      (1)   Landfilling and land excavation/grading operations, including
mining.
      (2)   Cannabis businesses including cannabis cultivation as regulated by
Chapter 115 of the Mayer, Minnesota Code of Ordinances.
   (F)   Uses by administrative permit. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of
this section and performance standards established by this chapter, and
processing requirements of §
152.016 of this chapter, the following are uses allowed in the A-I District by
administrative permit:
      (1)   Essential services.
   (F)   Lot requirements, setbacks and building height. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the A-1 District subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter.
      (1)   Lot area: 40 acres.
      (2)   Lot width: 300 feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback: 50 feet.
      (4)   Side yard setback: 50 feet.
      (5)   Rear yard setback: 50 feet.
      (6)   Lot coverage: no requirement.
      (7)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Principal building: 35 feet or three stories, whichever is less.
         (b)   Accessory buildings: 20 feet.
         (c)   Accessory buildings related to farming activities: 50 feet.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.086 (R-1) SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the R-1 District is to provide an option for
low density single-family detached residential dwelling units and directly
related, complementary uses in areas without environmental constraints and
amenities.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following uses are permitted in the R-
1 District:
      (1)   Parks, trails, play fields, playgrounds, and directly related
buildings and structures.
      (2)   Residential facility serving six or fewer persons in a single-
family detached dwelling.
      (3)   Single-family detached dwellings.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, the following are permitted accessory
uses in the R-1 District:
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental and
directly related to the uses allowed as permitted, conditional, interim, and
administrative permit in this section, subject to applicable regulation of this
chapter.
      (2)   Daycare facilities serving 14 or fewer persons in a single-family
detached dwelling.
      (3)   Fences.
      (4)   Gardens for produce not to be offered for sale.
      (5)   Solar energy systems, ground source heat pump systems and roof-
mounted wind energy conversion systems (WCES) as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (6)   Home occupations.
      (7)   Play and recreational facilities, only accessory to an existing
principal permitted use on the same lot and which are operated for the
enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the principal use and their
occasional guests, except as otherwise permitted.
      (8)   Signs.
   (D)   Conditional uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following are conditional uses in the R-
1 District and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by §
152.012 of this chapter.
      (1)   Religious institutions, provided that the minimum side yard
setbacks shall be 30 feet, the same as the front yard setback.
   (E)   Interim uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of this
section, the following are interim uses in the R-1 District and are further
governed by §
152.013 of this chapter.
      (1)   None.
   (F)   Uses by administrative permit. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of
this section and performance standards established by this chapter, and
processing requirements of §
152.016 of this chapter, the following are uses allowed in the R-I District by
administrative permit:
      (1)   Essential services.
      (2)   Model homes.
      (3)   Temporary structures as regulated by §
152.052 of this chapter.
   (G)   Lot requirements, setbacks and building height. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the R-1 District subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter.
      (1)   Lot area: 10,500 square feet.
      (2)   Lot area corner lot: 12,000 square feet.
      (3)   Lot width: 80 feet.
      (4)   Lot width corner lot: 95 feet.
      (5)   Front yard setback: 30 feet.
      (6)   Side yard setback: 10 feet.
      (7)   Side yard setback abutting public right of way: 25 feet.
      (8)   Rear yard setback: 30 feet.
      (9)   Lot coverage: 35%.
      (10)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Principal building: 35 feet or three stories, whichever is less.
         (b)   Accessory buildings: 20 feet.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.087 (R-2) SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the R-2 District is to provide for low to
medium density single-family detached residential dwelling units and two-family
attached residential units and directly related, complementary uses in areas
without environmental constraints and amenities.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following uses are permitted in the R-
2 District:
      (1)   Parks, trails, play fields, playgrounds, and directly related
buildings and structures.
      (2)   Residential facility serving six or fewer persons in a single-
family detached dwelling.
      (3)   Single-family detached dwellings.
      (4)   Townhouses, detached only.
      (5)   Two-family dwelling units.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, the following are permitted accessory
uses in the R-2 District:
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental and
directly related to the uses allowed as permitted, conditional, interim, and
administrative permit in this section, subject to applicable regulation of this
chapter.
      (2)   Daycare facilities serving 14 or fewer persons in a single-family
detached dwelling.
      (3)   Fences.
      (4)   Gardens for produce not to be offered for sale.
      (5)   Solar energy systems, ground source heat pump systems and roof-
mounted wind energy conversion systems (WCES) as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (6)   Home occupations.
      (7)   Play and recreational facilities, only accessory to an existing
principal permitted use on the same lot and which are operated for the
enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the principal use and their
occasional guests, except as otherwise permitted.
      (8)   Signs.
   (D)   Conditional uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following are conditional uses in the R-
2 District and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by §
152.012 of this chapter.
      (1)   Religious institutions, provided that the minimum side yard
setbacks shall be 25 feet, the same as the front yard setback for single-family
detached dwellings.
      (2)   More than one principal residential building on one lot of record,
provided that the applicable provisions of division (G) of this section are
satisfactorily met.
   (E)   Interim uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of this
section, the following are interim uses in the R-2 District and are further
governed by §
152.013 of this chapter.
      (1)   None.
   (F)   Uses by administrative permit. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of
this section and performance standards established by this chapter, and
processing requirements of §
152.016 of this chapter, the following are uses allowed in the R-2 District by
administrative permit:
      (1)   Essential services.
      (2)   Model homes.
      (3)   Temporary structures as regulated by §
152.052 of this chapter.
   (G)   Lot requirements, setbacks and building height. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the R-2 District subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings.
         (a)   Lot area: 8,400 square feet.
         (b)   Lot area corner lot: 10,000 square feet.
         (c)   Lot width: 65 feet.
         (d)   Lot width corner lot: 77.5 feet.
         (e)   Front yard setback: 25 feet.
         (f)   Side yard setback: 7.5 feet.
         (g)   Side yard setback abutting public right-of-way: 20.
         (h)   Rear yard setback: 30 feet.
         (i)   Lot coverage: 40%.
         (j)   Maximum building height.
            1.   Principal building: 35 feet or three stories, whichever is
less.
            2.   Accessory buildings: 20 feet.
      (2)   Detached townhouse and two-family dwellings.
         (a)   Unit lots. The following minimum unit lot requirements shall be
applied to the subdivision of detached townhouse and two-family dwellings to
permit individual private ownership of a single dwelling within such a
structure:
            1.   Lot area. Detached townhouse and two-family unit lots shall
have sufficient lot area to include the living area, garages, decks, patios, or
porches of the individual dwelling units.
            2.   Base lot setbacks. A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be
required at the periphery of the base lot development in the rear yard.
            3.   Building setbacks. The following minimum internal setbacks
shall be imposed on detached townhouse and two-family developments that include
more than one principal structure on a base lot:
               A.   Setback between buildings within the same base lot shall
maintain a minimum separation of 15 feet.
               B.   Buildings shall be set back a minimum of 25 feet from
public rights-of-way.
      (3)   Common areas. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
in the R-2 District governing common areas:
         (a)   Ownership. All common areas within an R-2 development not
dedicated to the public including, but not limited to, open space, driveways,
private drives, parking areas, play areas, and the like, shall be owned in one
of the following manners:
            1.   Common interest community pursuant to M.S. Ch. 515B.
            2.   Detached townhouse and two-family base lot common areas shall
be owned by the owners of each unit lot, with each owner of a unit having an
equal and undivided interest in the common area.
         (b)   A homeowners' association subject to review and approval of the
City Council responsible for exterior building maintenance of two-family
dwellings and common accessory buildings or structures, approval of any
exterior architectural modifications, landscaping, snow clearing and regular
maintenance of private driveways and other areas owned in common when there is
more than one individual property owner having interest within the development.
   (H)   Development density. The maximum development density within the R-
2 District shall be determined by the following minimum lot area per unit
standards:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings. As provided for in this section.
      (2)   Detached townhouse and two-family dwellings. Five thousand square
feet per unit.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.088 (R-3) TWO-FAMILY AND TOWNHOUSE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the R-3 District is to establish a medium
density residential neighborhood which satisfies the following planning
objectives:
      (1)   Creation of a cohesive medium density neighborhood that provides
attractive living environments and contributes to the city’s identity.
      (2)   Provide attractive and durable medium density housing options as a
means of addressing the city’s life cycle housing needs.
      (3)   Preservation of natural landforms, open spaces, greenways for
scenic enjoyment and recreational use through the regulation of medium density
residential land use.
      (4)   Allows for the subdivision of two-family and townhouse base lots to
permit individual private ownership of a single dwelling within such a
structure.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following uses are permitted in the R-
3 District:
      (1)   Parks, trails, play fields, playgrounds, and directly related
buildings and structures.
      (2)   Residential facilities serving 16 or fewer persons.
      (3)   Townhouses, up to six units in a row or eight units back to back.
      (4)   Townhouses, detached.
      (5)   Two-family dwelling units.
      (6)   More than one principal building on a base lot.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, the following are permitted accessory
uses in the R-3 District.
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental and
directly related to the uses allowed as permitted, conditional, interim, and
administrative permit in this section, subject to applicable regulation of this
chapter and only those accessory buildings, structures, or fences owned and
maintained by a homeowners' association shall be erected on a common base lot
for detached townhouse or two-family dwellings.
      (2)   Fences.
      (3)   Solar energy systems, ground source heat pump systems and roof-
mounted wind energy conversion systems (WCES) as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (4)   Home occupations.
      (5)   Play and recreational facilities, only accessory to an existing
principal permitted use on the same lot and which are operated for the
enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the principal use and their
occasional guests, except as otherwise permitted.
      (6)   Signs.
   (D)   Conditional uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following are conditional uses in the R-
3 District and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by §
152.012 of this chapter.
      (1)   Religious institutions, provided that the minimum side yard
setbacks shall be 25 feet, the same as the front yard setback to public rights-
of-way.
      (2)   More than one principal residential building on one lot of record,
provided that the applicable provisions of division (G) of this section are
satisfactorily met.
   (E)   Interim uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of this
section, the following are interim uses in the R-3 District and are further
governed by §
152.013 of this chapter.
      (1)   None.
   (F)   Uses by administrative permit. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of
this section and performance standards established by this chapter, and
processing requirements of §
152.016 of this chapter, the following are uses allowed in the R-3 District by
administrative permit:
      (1)   Essential services.
      (2)   Model homes.
      (3)   Temporary structures as regulated by §
152.052 of this chapter.
   (G)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in the R-3 District subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter.
      (1)   Detached townhouse, two-family and townhouse dwellings.
         (a)   Unit lots. The following minimum unit lot requirements shall be
applied to the subdivision of detached townhouse, two-family or townhouse
dwellings to permit individual private ownership of a single dwelling within
such a structure.
            1.   Lot area. Detached townhouse, two-family or townhouse unit
lots shall have sufficient lot area to include the living area, garages, decks,
patios or porches of the individual dwelling units.
         (b)   Base lot setbacks. A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be
required at the periphery of the base lot development in the rear yard.
         (c)   Building setbacks. The following minimum internal setbacks shall
be imposed on developments that include more than one principal structure on a
base lot:
            1.   Minimum setback between buildings within the same base lot.
               A.   Detached townhouse and two-family: 15 feet.
               B.   Townhouse: 20 feet.
            2.   Buildings shall be set back a minimum of 25 feet from the back
of curb line of private drives, 25 feet from public rights-of-way, and 15 feet
from guest parking areas.
      (2)   Lot coverage: 50%.
      (3)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Principal building: 35 feet or three stories, whichever is less.
         (b)   Accessory buildings: 20 feet.
   (I)   Common areas. The following minimum requirements shall be observed in
the R-3 District governing common areas.
      (1)   Ownership. All common areas within an R-3 development not dedicated
to the public including, but not limited to, open space, driveways, private
drives, parking areas, play areas, and the like, shall be owned in one of the
following manners:
         (a)   Common interest community pursuant to M.S. Ch. 515B.
         (b)   Detached townhouse, two-family and townhouse base lot common
areas shall be owned by the owners of each unit lot, with each owner of a unit
having an equal and undivided interest in the common area.
      (2)   A homeowners’ association subject to review and approval of the
City Council responsible for exterior building maintenance of two-family and
townhouse dwellings and common accessory buildings or structures, approval of
any exterior architectural modifications, landscaping, snow clearing and
regular maintenance of private driveways and other areas owned in common when
there is more than one individual property owner having interest within the
development.
   (J)   Development density. The maximum development density within the R-
3 District shall be determined by the following minimum lot area per unit
standards:
      (1)   Detached townhouse and two-family dwellings: 5,000 square feet per
unit.
      (2)   Attached townhouse dwellings: 3,800 square feet per unit.
   (K)   Design and construction standards.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all detached
townhouse dwellings, two-family dwellings platted in a unit and base lot
configuration, and townhouse dwellings. Single-family dwellings are exempt from
the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Unit construction.
         (a)   Subdivision requests. Building elevations and floor plans shall
be furnished with subdivision requests illustrating exterior building material
and colors to demonstrate compliance with §
152.063 of this chapter.
         (b)   Decks or porches. Provision shall be made for possible decks,
porches or additions as part of the initial dwelling unit building plans. The
unit lot shall be configured and sized to include decks or porches.
         (c)   Exterior building finish, detached townhouse dwelling, two-
family, and townhouse dwelling units. The exterior of detached townhouse, two-
family and townhouse dwelling units shall include a variation in building
materials which are to be distributed throughout the building elevations and
coordinated into the architectural design of the structure to create an
architecturally balanced appearance.
      (3)   Garages.
         (a)   Each dwelling unit shall include an attached garage.
         (b)   Garages shall comply with the following minimum size standards:
            1.   For dwellings with basements: 440 square feet.
            2.   For dwellings without basements: 480 square feet.
            3.   Garages shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width measured by
interior dimensions.
         (c)   The area of an attached garage shall be measured by interior
dimensions.
      (4)   Outside storage. Outside storage shall be allowed only in
designated areas which are screened in accordance with §
152.058 of this chapter and under the ownership of the property owners’
association subject to other applicable provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Utilities.
         (a)   Underground or exterior service. All utilities serving an R-
3 District subdivision, including telephone, electricity, gas and tele-cable
shall be installed underground. Exterior utility meters and/or fixtures shall
be located in interior side or rear yards when possible.
         (b)   Public utility service. Separate public utility services shall
be provided to each unit unless exempted by the city.
         (c)   Water connection. Individual unit shutoff valves shall be
provided.
         (d)   Sewer connection. Where more than one unit is served by a
sanitary sewer service, all maintenance and cleaning shall be the
responsibility of the property owners’ association or owners.
      (5)   Drives.
         (a)   Dead end private drives shall serve a maximum of one structure
or six units per side.
         (b)   Private drives shall be under the ownership and control of the
property owners’ association who shall be responsible for the maintenance,
repair, and replacement of surfacing. The association shall maintain a capital
improvement program for the driveways under its ownership.
         (c)   Private drives must include areas for snow storage.
         (d)   Private drives shall be a minimum of 24 feet in width (back of
curb to back of curb) and shall be posted as no parking zones on both sides of
the drive.
      (7)   Guest parking.
         (a)   Number of spaces.
            1.   At minimum, one-half of guest parking spaces per unit shall be
provided in an off-street parking lot or private drive at locations dispersed
within the development to provide convenient access to individual dwelling
units.
            2.   Detached townhouse uses accessed by public streets shall be
exempt from the requirement to provide guest parking stalls.
         (b)   The design and location of the off-street parking shall be
between or to the side of buildings in a manner compatible with surrounding
dwelling units, including, but not limited to, a minimum 15-foot setback from
principal buildings, decks, patios or other open spaces intended for active
use.
      (8)   Landscaping/screening/lighting. A detailed landscaping and lighting
plan shall be provided and implemented pursuant to §
152.030 of this chapter. The landscaping and screening shall address the
following:
         (a)   All open areas of the development project which are not used or
improved for required parking areas, drives or storage shall be landscaped with
a combination of overstory trees, understory trees, shrubs, flowers and ground
cover materials. The plan for landscaping shall include ground cover, bushes,
shrubbery, trees, sculpture, fountains, decorative walks or other similar site
design features.
         (b)   Landscaping at the boundary of the site adjoining another
property and the immediate perimeter of the principal structure.
         (c)   Buffer yard landscaping for yards bordering major collector and
arterial streets.
         (d)   All boulevards shall be sodded.
         (e)   Screening of designated outdoor storage areas.
         (f)   All landscaped areas, including public rights of way adjacent to
the property, shall have an inground irrigation system with an automatic
controller.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.089 (R-4) MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the R-4 District is to provide for high
density housing in multiple-family structures and directly related
complementary uses at appropriate locations within the city.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following uses are permitted in the R-
4 District:
      (1)   Multiple-family dwelling structures.
      (2)   Parks, trails, play fields, playgrounds, and directly related
buildings and structures.
      (3)   Residential facilities serving 16 or fewer persons.
      (4)   Senior housing.
      (5)   Nursing home, assisted or continuing care retirement community.
      (6)   Townhouses, up to eight units in a row or 12 units back-to-back.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, the following are permitted accessory
uses in the R-4 District:
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental and
directly related to the uses allowed as permitted, conditional, interim, and
administrative permit in this section, subject to applicable regulation of this
chapter and only those accessory buildings, structures, or fences owned and
maintained by a homeowners’ association shall be erected on a common base lot
for detached townhouse or two-family dwellings.
      (2)   Fences.
      (3)   Solar energy systems, ground source heat pump systems and roof-
mounted wind energy conversion systems (WCES) as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (4)   Home occupations.
      (5)   Play and recreational facilities, only accessory to an existing
principal permitted use on the same lot and which are operated for the
enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the principal use and their
occasional guests, except as otherwise permitted.
      (6)   Signs.
      (7)   Administrative offices, meeting rooms, classrooms, and food
preparation in multiple-family dwellings which are incidental and directly
related to the primary use.
      (8)   Private garages, off-street parking and off-street loading for
multiple-family dwellings.
   (D)   Conditional uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following are conditional uses in the R-
4 District and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by §
152.012 of this chapter:
      (1)   Religious institutions, provided that the minimum side yards shall
be 25 feet, the same as the front yard setback to public rights-of-way.
      (2)   More than one principal residential building on one lot of record,
provided that the applicable provisions of division (H) of this section are
satisfactorily met.
      (3)   Daycare as an accessory use.
   (E)   Interim uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of this
section, the following are interim uses in the R-4 District and are further
governed by §
152.013 of this chapter:
      (1)   None.
   (F)   Uses by administrative permit. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of
this section and performance standards established by this chapter, and
processing requirements of §
152.016 of this chapter, the following are uses allowed in the R-4 District by
administrative permit:
      (1)   Essential services.
      (2)   Model homes.
      (3)   Temporary structures as regulated by §
152.052 of this chapter.
   (G)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in the R-4 District subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Base lot minimums. Within the R-4 District, the following minimum
base lot requirements shall be imposed. The base lot shall represent the
smallest lot or parcel which may accommodate development within the framework
of the permitted density of division (I) of this section prior to subdivision
of unit lots.
         (a)   Lot area: 20,000 square feet.
         (b)   Lot width: 100 feet.
      (2)   Two-family and townhome dwellings. The following minimum unit lot
requirements shall be applied to the subdivision of two-family dwellings or
townhouses to permit individual private ownership of a single dwelling within
such a structure:
         (a)   Lot area. Two-family or townhouse unit lots shall have
sufficient lot area to include the living area, garages, decks, patios, or
porches of the individual dwelling units.
      (3)   Base lot setbacks. A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be required
at the periphery of the base lot development in the rear yard.
      (4)   Building setbacks. The following minimum internal setbacks shall be
imposed on developments that include more than one principal structure on a
base lot:
         (a)   Minimum setback between buildings within the same base lot.
            1.   Two-family: 15 feet.
            2.   Townhouse: 20 feet.
            3.   Multiple-family, senior housing and nursing homes: 25 feet.
         (b)   Buildings shall be set back a minimum of 25 feet from the back
of curb line of private drives, 20 feet from public rights-of-way and 15 feet
from parking areas.
      (5)   Lot coverage: 50% for two-family and townhouse and 60% for
multiple-family and senior housing.
      (6)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Principal building: four stories or 45 feet, whichever is less.
         (b)   Accessory buildings: 20 feet.
   (H)   Common areas. The following minimum requirements shall be observed in
the R-4 District governing common areas:
      (1)   Ownership. All common areas within an R-4 development not dedicated
to the public including, but not limited to, open space, driveways, private
drives, parking areas, play areas, and the like, shall be owned in one of the
following manners:
         (a)   Condominium ownership pursuant to M.S. § 515A.1-106.
         (b)   Two-family and townhouse subdivision common areas shall be owned
by the owners of each unit lot, with each owner of a unit having an equal and
undivided interest in the common area.
      (2)   A homeowners’ association subject to review and approval of the
City Council responsible for exterior building maintenance of two-family
dwellings, townhouse dwellings, and common accessory buildings or structures,
approval of any exterior architectural modifications, landscaping, snow
clearing and regular maintenance of private driveways and other areas owned in
common when there is more than one individual property owner having interest
within the development.
   (I)   Development density. The maximum development density within the R-
4 District shall be determined by the following minimum lot area per unit
standards:
      (1)   Townhouse dwellings: 3,800 square feet per unit.
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings:
         (a)   One thousand five hundred square feet per unit.
         (b)   Buildings on lots abutting an R-1 or R-2 District shall not
exceed a floor area ratio of seven-tenths.
      (3)   Senior assisted living or continuing care retirement communities
and nursing homes: 1,000 square feet per unit.
      (4)   Two-family dwellings: 5,000 square feet per unit.
   (J)   Design and construction standards.
      (1)   Design and construction standards for two-family and townhouse
dwellings shall be as specified in §
152.088(K) of this chapter.
      (2)   The exterior of multiple-family dwelling structures, senior housing
and nursing homes shall include a variation in building materials which are to
be distributed throughout the building elevations and coordinated into the
architectural design of the structure to create an architecturally balanced
appearance. In addition, multiple-family dwelling structures shall comply with
the following requirements:
         (a)   A minimum of 50% of the combined area of all elevations of a
structure shall have an exterior finish of brick, stucco and/or natural or
artificial stone.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, the area of the building
elevation shall not include area devoted to windows, entrance doors, garage
doors, or roof areas.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.090 (C-1) HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the C-1 District is to provide appropriate
areas in proximity to arterial and collector roadways for commercial retail and
service establishments that are motor vehicle oriented and not compatible with
the desired character of the downtown.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following uses are permitted in the C-
1 District:
      (1)   Commercial establishments which are oriented to the motorist, such
as motor vehicle fuel stations and convenience stores, motor vehicle repair
shops and car washes.
      (2)   Essential service structures.
      (3)   Offices and administrative facilities.
      (4)   Medical related clinics/uses and offices.
      (5)   Banking/financial institutions.
      (6)   Laundromats and dry cleaners.
      (7)   Barber and beauty shops.
      (8)   Religious institutions.
      (9)   Off-liquor sales.
      (10)   Daycare facilities.
      (11)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      (12)   Veterinary clinic, animal care, animal shelter, pet daycare, pet
training, or animal hospital.
      (13)   Bank, savings and loan, savings credit unions and other financial
institutions.
      (14)   Commercial recreation, indoor.
      (15)   Restaurants without a drive through service window.
      (16)   Restaurants with on-sale liquor.
      (17)   Hotels and motels.
      (18)   Private clubs or lodges serving food and beverages with on-sale
liquor.
      (19)   Off-street parking as a principal use.
      (20)   Retail businesses.
      (21)   Service businesses.
      (22)   Tattoo parlors.
      (23)   Fitness centers and health clubs.
      (24)   Brewpub.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, the following are permitted accessory
uses in the C-1 District:
      (1)   Roof-mounted wind energy conversion systems (WECS) as regulated by
§
152.066 of this chapter.
      (2)   Ground source heat pump systems as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (3)   Roof or building mounted, ground mounted and community solar energy
systems as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (4)   Buildings and structures for a use accessory to the principal use
but such use shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor space of the principal
use.
      (5)   Fences as regulated by §
152.057 of this chapter.
      (6)   Signs as regulated by §
152.071 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street loading as regulated by §
152.068 of this chapter.
      (8)   Off-street parking as regulated by §
152.067 of this chapter, including semitrailer trucks.
   (D)   Conditional uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following are conditional uses in the C-
1 District and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by §
152.012 of this chapter.
      (1)   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS) mounted on a tower.
      (2)   Restaurants with a drive through service window. Restrictions
include:
         (a)   No drive through restaurant shall be located within 300 feet of
a school or religious institution.
         (b)   No drive through restaurant shall be located within 100 feet of
any residentially zoned property, provided:
            1.   No public address system shall be audible from any residential
zone.
            2.   Screening of the property from residential areas will be
required. The city may require fencing, earthen berms and landscaping, or any
other method or combination deemed appropriate to accomplish the required
screening.
         (c)   No drive through restaurant shall be located on any street other
than an arterial roadway, collector roadway or business service road.
         (d)   No access drive shall be within 100 feet of intersecting street
right-of-way lines.
         (e)   Adequate areas shall be designated for snow storage such that
clear visibility shall be maintained from the property to any public street.
      (3)   Automobile repair provided that:
         (a)   Not less than 25% of the lot, parcel or tract of land shall
remain as landscaped green area according to the approved landscape plan.
         (b)   The entire area other than occupied by buildings or structures
or planting shall be surfaced with bituminous material or concrete which will
control dust and drainage. The entire area shall have a perimeter curb barrier,
a stormwater drainage system and is subject to the approval of the City
Engineer.
         (c)   The hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
Evening hours of operation shall be subject to the approval by the city.
         (d)   All painting must be conducted in an approved paint booth. All
paint booths and all other activities of the operation shall thoroughly control
the emission of fumes, dust or other particulate matter so that the use shall
be in compliance with the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards,
Minnesota Regulation APC 1-15, as amended.
      (4)   Commercial car washes (drive-through, mechanical and self-service)
provided that:
         (a)   A car wash that is accessory to a convenience store/motor fuel
facility shall be included as part of the principal building.
         (b)   Magazine or stacking space is constructed to accommodate six
vehicles per wash stall and shall be subject to the approval of the City
Engineer.
         (c)   Magazine or stacking space must not interfere with on-site
circulation patterns or required on-site parking or loading areas.
         (d)   Parking or car magazine storage space shall be screened from
view of abutting residential districts.
         (e)   For self-service and single stall car washes, the exterior
vehicle doors of the car wash must remain closed during the entire operation
cycle.
         (f)   For drive-through car washes servicing multiple vehicles at
once, the exterior vehicle doors shall remain closed except as a vehicle is
preparing to or actively entering or exiting the wash tunnel.
         (g)   Mechanical equipment for vacuum machines shall be located such
that sound levels measured at the property line do not exceed 70 dB.
         (h)   Untreated water from the car wash shall not be discharged into
the storm sewer.
         (i)   Hours of operation shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
unless further limited by the city.
      (5)   Commercial recreation, outdoor.
      (6)   Motor vehicle fuel sales with or without convenience grocery and/or
prepared food.
         (a)   The sale of food items is in compliance with state and county
standards.
         (b)   Vehicle fuel facilities are installed in accordance with state
standards. Adequate space shall be provided to access fueling station and allow
maneuverability around the pumps. Underground fuel storage tanks are to be
positioned to allow adequate access by automotive fuel transports and unloading
operations minimize conflict with circulation, access and other activities on
the site.
         (c)   Wherever fuel stations are to be installed, station islands
shall be installed.
         (d)   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined
and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachments by
parked cars or moving vehicles.
      (7)   Motor vehicle sales, including new and used automobiles, trucks,
motorcycles, recreational vehicles and equipment, boats and marine sales, and/
or rental of the vehicles and equipment provided that:
         (a)   The areas for parking, storage, or display of vehicles for sale
or rental are fenced or screened from view of neighboring residential uses or
an abutting residential district.
         (b)   The area for parking, storage, or display of vehicles for sales
or rental is surfaced with bituminous material or concrete.
         (c)   The area for parking, storage, or display of vehicles for sales
or rental does not take up parking space as required for conformity to this
chapter.
         (d)   Hours of operation shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
unless otherwise allowed by the city.
         (e)   Accessory automobile repair shall require the processing of a
separate conditional use permit(s).
      (8)   Pet shops which may include pet grooming, pet supplies, and/or pet
accessories, provided that:
         (a)   All areas in which animals are confined are located indoors and
are properly soundproofed from adjacent properties or tenants in the case of
multiple-occupancy buildings.
         (b)   Animal wastes are disposed of at least once each day via an
existing sanitary sewer system or enclosed in a container of sufficient
construction at least once a day to minimize odors.
         (c)   The floors and walls of pet grooming areas are made of nonporous
materials or sealed concrete to make them nonporous.
         (d)   No commercial boarding or kenneling of animals shall be allowed.
         (e)   The breeding of cats and dogs is prohibited unless expressly
allowed by the conditional use permit.
         (f)   All animals to be sold are acquired from a licensed animal
broker.
      (9)   Theaters, indoor.
      (10)   Veterinary clinics provided that:
         (a)   All areas in which animals are confined are located indoors and
are properly soundproofed from adjacent properties.
         (b)   Animal carcasses are properly disposed of in a manner not
utilizing on site garbage facilities or incineration and the carcasses are
properly refrigerated during periods prior to disposal.
         (c)   Animal kennels for dogs, cats and other domestic animals
provided that:
            1.   The facility shall be licensed in accordance with the rules of
the Minnesota Board of Animal Health.
            2.   Indoor animal kennel floors and walls shall be made of
nonporous materials or sealed to make it nonporous.
            3.   A room or cage separate from the primary kennel area shall be
provided to adequately separate animals that are sick or injured from healthy
animals.
            4.   All animal waste shall be disposed of at least once per day to
prevent a public nuisance by being flushed down an existing sanitary sewer
system or enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors
and organisms that shall be emptied by a waste disposal service a minimum of
two times every seven days, or as otherwise determined to be necessary to
protect public health, safety and welfare.
            5.   A ventilation system shall be provided capable of completely
exchanging internal air.
            6.   Within a multiple tenant building, there shall be adequate
physical separation, including soundproofing, between the kennel and other
individual tenant spaces to protect public health and safety and prevent
nuisance issues.
            7.   Outdoor exercise areas shall be allowed for a kennel within a
single occupancy building only, subject to the following requirements:
               A.   The property shall be set back a minimum of 500 feet from
any residential district.
               B.   The outdoor exercise area shall be located only within an
interior side yard or rear yard.
               C.   The outdoor exercise area shall be set back a minimum of 15
feet from all lot lines.
               D.   A solid fence with a minimum height of six feet shall be
provided to screen the outdoor exercise area from surrounding properties and
public rights-of-way.
               E.   An attendant shall be present at all times to control
animals that are outdoors and prevent nuisance issues including, but not
limited to, noise.
               F.   No animals shall be allowed to be outdoors between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (11)   Micro-distilleries with tasting rooms.
      (12)   Small breweries with taprooms.
      (13)   Multiple principal buildings on one lot of record.
   (E)   Interim uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of this
section, the following are interim uses in the C-1 District and are further
governed by section §
152.013 of this chapter:
      (1)   Outdoor service, sale and rental as an accessory use, provided
that:
         (a)   Outside services, sales and equipment rental connected with the
principal use is limited to 30% of the gross floor area of the principal use.
         (b)   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or an abutting residential district.
         (c)   Sales area is surfaced with asphalt, concrete or pavers to
control dust.
         (d)   The use does not take up parking space as required for
conformity to this chapter.
         (e)   The interim use permit shall terminate upon a change of
occupancy or other date as determined by the City Council in accordance with §
152.013 of this chapter.
      (2)   Outdoor storage as an accessory use, provided that:
         (a)   Outside storage connected with the principal use is limited to
30% of the gross floor area of the principal use.
         (b)   The storage area is fenced and screened from view of neighboring
residential uses, abutting residential districts and the public right-of-way.
         (c)   The storage area is surfaced with asphalt, concrete or pavers to
control dust.
         (d)   The storage area does not take up parking space as required for
conformity with this chapter.
         (e)   The storage does not include any waste.
         (f)   The interim use permit shall terminate upon a change of
occupancy or other date as determined by the City Council.
      (3)   Cannabis businesses including cannabis retail and cannabis delivery
as regulated by
Chapter 115 of the Mayer, Minnesota Code of Ordinances.
   (F)   Uses by administrative permit. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of
this section and performance standards established by this chapter, and
processing requirements of §
152.016 of this chapter, the following are uses allowed in the C-I District by
administrative permit:
      (1)   Daycare accessory to a principal use.
      (2)   Sales, rental or display (indoor and outdoor) as an accessory use
in association with an allowed principal use provided that:
         (a)   The area so occupied shall not exceed 10% of the principal
building.
         (b)   No storage or display of merchandise shall be permitted in
required rear, side or front yards and shall be limited to the area of the
customer entrances.
         (c)   The outdoor sales, rental, or display area shall not occupy
space required for parking.
      (3)   Temporary structures as regulated by §
152.052 of this chapter.
      (4)   Essential services.
   (G)   Lot requirements, setbacks and building height. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the C-1 District subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area: 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width: 100 feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback: 20 feet.
      (4)   Side yard setback: 20 feet or 30 feet abutting a residential
district.
      (5)   Side yard setback abutting public right-of-way: 20 feet.
      (6)   Rear yard setback: 30 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage: 75%.
      (8)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Principal building: 40 feet.
         (b)   Accessory buildings: 20 feet.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.091 (C-2) CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the C-2 District is to recognize the existing
“downtown” area of Mayer and its function as a social, trade, and service
center for residents of the city and surrounding agricultural areas and
specifically for the regulation of high intensity commercial uses. The C-
2 District shall encourage the continuation of a viable downtown by promoting
uses dependent on high volumes of pedestrian traffic, provide for regulation of
the high intensity commercial and public uses located within the original core
of the city and to encourage limited areas of parks and green space in the
downtown. The C-2 District provides space for concentrated general business and
commercial activities at locations where they are easily accessible to
residential areas and, at the same time, minimizing negative impacts to
residential neighborhoods.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following uses are permitted in the C-
2 District:
      (1)   Retail businesses. (grocery store, hardware, drug, clothing,
furniture, eating and drinking places).
      (2)   Service businesses (laundry, barber, shoe repair, beauty salon,
photography studio).
      (3)   Professional services (medical, dental, attorney).
      (4)   Insurance and real estate services.
      (5)   Repair services (jewelry, radio/television, but not auto repair).
      (6)   Bank, savings and loan, savings credit unions and other financial
institutions.
      (7)   Banquet facilities with on-sale liquor.
      (8)   Commercial recreation, indoor.
      (9)   Tattoo parlors.
      (10)   Restaurants without a drive through service window.
      (11)   Daycare.
      (12)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      (13)   Governmental and public buildings and structures.
      (14)   Hotels.
      (15)   Offices and administrative facilities.
      (16)   Private clubs or lodges serving food and beverages with on-sale
liquor.
      (17)   Restaurants, general with on-sale liquor.
      (18)   Brewpub.
      (19)   Off-street parking as a principal use.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, the following are permitted accessory
uses in the C-2 District.
      (1)   Roof-mounted wind energy conversion systems (WECS) as regulated by
§
152.066 of this chapter.
      (2)   Roof or building mounted, ground mounted and community solar energy
systems as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (3)   Ground source heat pump systems as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (4)   Buildings and structures for a use accessory to the principal use
but such use shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor space of the principal
use.
      (5)   Fences as regulated by §
152.057 of this chapter.
      (6)   Signs as regulated by §
152.071 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street loading as regulated by §
152.068 of this chapter.
      (8)   Off-street parking as regulated by §
152.067 of this chapter, including semitrailer trucks.
   (D)   Conditional uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following are conditional uses in the C-
2 District and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by §
152.012 of this chapter.
      (1)   Motor vehicle fuel sales with or without convenience grocery and/or
prepared food, provided that:
         (a)   The sale of food items is in compliance with state and county
standards.
         (b)   Vehicle fuel facilities are installed in accordance with state
standards. Adequate space shall be provided to access fueling station and allow
maneuverability around the pumps. Underground fuel storage tanks are to be
positioned to allow adequate access by automotive fuel transports and unloading
operations minimize conflict with circulation, access and other activities on
the site.
         (c)   Wherever fuel stations are to be installed, station islands
shall be installed.
         (d)   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined
and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachments by
parked cars or moving vehicles.
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings within a building provided that:
         (a)   The residential dwelling units shall be located on the second
floor or above and shall not be located on the main or street level story of
the structure.
         (b)   Off-street parking for the dwelling units shall be provided as
required in §
152.067 of this chapter.
         (c)   An internal site pedestrian circulation system consisting of
sidewalks shall be defined and appropriate provisions made to protect such
areas from encroachments by parked cars or moving vehicles clear of any
obstacles or impediments.
         (d)   Stair access to the residential dwelling units shall not be
located on any side of the structure which faces a public right-of-way except
for alleys.
         (e)   The design of the dwelling units shall be such that their use
for residential purposes is not readily apparent from a public right-of-way.
      (3)   Off-street parking as a principal use.
      (4)   Multiple principal buildings on one lot of record.
      (5)   Drive-through service windows accessory to an allowed use, other
than for convenience restaurants, provided that the following additional
criteria are satisfied:
         (a)   Stacking. Segregated automobile stacking lane sufficient for the
traffic generated by the use shall be provided for the service window.
         (b)   Traffic control. The stacking lane and its access shall be
designed to control traffic in a manner to protect the pedestrians, buildings
and green area on the site.
         (c)   Use of street. No part of the public street or boulevard shall
be used for stacking of automobiles.
         (d)   Screening. The drive through service window and stacking lane
shall be screened from view of adjacent residential properties.
      (6)   Fitness centers limited to 2,000 square feet of gross floor area or
less provided that:
         (a)   Adequate off-street parking shall be provided in compliance with
§
152.067 of this chapter.
         (b)   Hours of operation shall be limited to 5:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
unless otherwise allowed by the City Council.
      (7)   Religions institutions.
      (8)   Theaters, indoor.
      (9)   Micro-distilleries with tasting rooms.
      (10)   Small breweries and taprooms.
   (E)   Interim uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of this
section, the following are interim uses in the C-2 District and are further
governed by §
152.013 of this chapter.
      (1)   Cannabis businesses including cannabis retail as regulated by
Chapter 115 of the Mayer, Minnesota Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   Outdoor service, sale and rental as an accessory use, provided
that:
         (a)   Outside services, sales and equipment rental connected with the
principal use is limited to 30% of the gross floor area of the principal use.
         (b)   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or an abutting residential district.
         (c)   Sales area is surfaced with asphalt, concrete or pavers to
control dust.
         (d)   The use does not take up parking space as required for
conformity to this chapter.
         (e)   The interim use permit shall terminate upon a change of
occupancy or other date as determined by the City Council in accordance with §
152.013 of this chapter.
      (3)   Outdoor storage as an accessory use, provided that:
         (a)   Outside storage connected with the principal use is limited to
30% of the gross floor area of the principal use.
         (b)   The storage area is fenced and screened from view of neighboring
residential uses, abutting residential districts and the public right-of-way.
         (c)   The storage area is surfaced with asphalt, concrete or pavers to
control dust.
         (d)   The storage area does not take up parking space as required for
conformity with this chapter.
         (e)   The storage does not include any waste.
         (f)   The interim use permit shall terminate upon a change of
occupancy or other date as determined by the City Council.
      (4)   Single-family dwellings existing as of February 23, 2026, provided
that:
         (a)   The use shall be subject to the requirements applicable to
single-family detached dwelling uses within the R-2 District.
         (b)   The interim use shall terminate upon subdivision or
redevelopment of the property for a use allowed within the C-2 District.
   (H)   Uses by administrative permit. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of
this section and performance standards established by this chapter, and
processing requirements of §
152.016 of this chapter, the following are uses allowed in the C-2 District by
administrative permit:
      (1)   Daycare accessory to a principal use.
      (2)   Sales, rental or display (indoor and outdoor) as an accessory use
in association with an allowed principal use provided that:
         (a)   The area so occupied shall not exceed 10% of the principal
building.
         (b)   No storage or display of merchandise shall be permitted in
required rear, side or front yards and shall be limited to the area of the
customer entrances.
         (c)   The outdoor sales, rental, or display area shall not occupy
space required for parking.
      (3)   Temporary structures as regulated by §
152.052 of this chapter.
      (4)   Essential services.
   (I)   Lot requirements, setbacks and building height. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the C-2 District subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter.
      (1)   Lot area: 7,500 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width: 50 feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback: None.
      (4)   Side yard setback: None.
      (5)   Side yard setback abutting public right of way: None.
      (6)   Rear yard setback: None.
      (7)   Lot coverage: None.
      (8)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Principal building: 40 feet or four stories, whichever is less.
         (b)   Accessory buildings: 20 feet.
   (J)   Design standards. The following special requirements shall apply to
those uses in the C-2 District in addition to the requirements listed in §
152.063 of this chapter.
      (1)   Intent. The standards and guidelines set forth in this district are
intended to encourage sensitive architectural rehabilitation and preservation
of the older significant buildings as well as establish standards for new
developments which emphasize harmonious and unifying architectural design that
will tie the entire district together. All property located within this
district shall be subject to all other applicable standards, procedures and
regulations as specified within the Mayer, Minnesota Code of Ordinances. Where
the provisions of the C-2 District and the other portions of the Mayer Code of
Ordinances are in conflict, the more stringent requirement shall apply.
      (2)   Permitted, accessory, conditional, interim and administrative uses.
All buildings, structures, land or premises shall be used, erected,
constructed, reconstructed moved or altered according to the uses identified or
described in this section:
      (3)   Lot and setback requirements.
         (a)   Minimum setbacks. No front yard, side yard or rear yard setbacks
shall be required except as provided elsewhere in this section provided that
the structure meets the following requirements:
            1.   Structures must be designed to prevent snow, ice and other
precipitation from falling on any public sidewalk.
            2.   In order to reinforce the existing building line and to
facilitate pedestrian access and circulation, all new principal buildings shall
be built to the front property lines and shall be oriented so that the front of
the building faces the public street, unless a variation meeting the general
intent of this district and performance standards is approved by the City
Council following review by the Planning Commission.
            3.   All entrance and exit doors to buildings built to the front
property line shall be recessed inwards so as not to open directly onto the
adjoining street or sidewalk.
         (b)   Parking and paving setbacks.
            1.   None, unless adjoining a residential district, then 15 feet.
            2.   All off-street loading berths shall be a minimum of ten feet
from any residential district.
      (4)   Building materials; prohibited exterior materials. Unadorned pre-
stressed concrete panels, non-decorative concrete block, metal siding with
exposed fasteners, corrugated metal or unfinished metal shall not be used as
exterior materials on that part of a building facing a public right-of-way
except an alley. Painting previously unpainted brick on the facades of
buildings is prohibited.
      (5)   Visual relief. No front elevation or elevation facing a public
right of way may exceed 40 feet without the incorporation of visual relief. All
new building elevations shall include a minimum of three of the following
elements creating visual relief:
         (a)   Accent materials.
         (b)   A visually pleasing front entry that, in addition to doors,
shall be accented by a minimum of 150 square feet around the door entrance for
single occupancy buildings and a minimum of 300 square feet total for the front
of multi-tenant buildings (this entry and accenting shall be counted as one
element).
         (c)   A minimum of 25% of the front elevation and each front that
faces a street shall be glass. Glazing patterns and window styles of adjacent
buildings shall be matched as much as possible.
         (d)   Contrasting, yet complementary material colors (not painted).
         (e)   A combination of horizontal and vertical design features.
         (f)   Varying wall depths.
      (6)   Design elements.
         (a)   Architectural features which create a sculptural or three-
dimensional quality such as marquees, balconies, grill work, sculpted
keystones, caryatids, detailed cornices, brackets, niches, and awnings shall be
incorporated into the design of buildings or structures. Buildings shall be
designed to match existing cornices, brick corbelling, details and patterns of
adjacent buildings as much as possible.
         (b)   Flat roofs must have parapets and sloped roofs must be sloped a
minimum of 4/12 roof pitch.
      (7)   Franchise architecture. To maintain the unique character of
downtown Mayer, buildings shall not be constructed or renovated using typical
franchise architecture. FRANCHISE ARCHITECTURE is defined as building design
that is trademarked or identified with a particular franchise, chain or
corporation and is generic or standard in nature. Franchises or national chains
must follow the standards of this section to create a building that is
compatible with downtown Mayer.
      (8)   Colors. Colors are an important element of the overall design
concept for the C-2 District and should be complementary to the historical
palette of the C-2 District, or other historic and significant buildings in the
vicinity. Color can be used to enhance or draw attention to specific parts of a
building such as entries. Colors can be used to mask or diminish the visual
importance of features such as service entries or storage and trash areas. The
following items shall be observed with respect to building colors.
         (a)   The predominant exterior colors shall be muted earth tones.
         (b)   Trim and detail colors should provide contrasting accent. The
number of accent colors should be limited to prevent a gaudy appearance.
         (c)   Colors should represent the architectural style of the building.
         (d)   Materials with natural colors such as brick or copper should be
left unfinished unless there is a compelling reason to the contrary.
         (e)   Bright or intense colors or very dark colors should be used
sparingly and should typically be reserved for more delicate or intricate
design elements such as grille work, as well as more transient features such as
awnings, signs and flags.
         (f)   Doors, screening walls, or other architectural features should
be painted or finished to complement the color of the building.
      (9)   Awnings. Awnings may be used to enhance the character of buildings
while providing sun protection for display windows, shelter for pedestrians,
and a sign panel for businesses.
         (a)   Awnings cannot extend across multiple storefronts and/or
multiple buildings, unless the multiple buildings are used to operate the same
use.
         (b)   Awnings must be constructed of durable, protective, and water
repellant materials.
         (c)   Replacement of existing awnings must meet the requirements of
divisions (J)(9)(a) and (J)(9)(b) of this section.
      (10)   Expansions, exterior renovations and exceptions.
         (a)   All subsequent expansion and/or additions shall be constructed
of those materials comparable to those used in the original construction and
shall be designed in a manner conforming to the original architectural design
and general appearance of the original building.
            1.   All portions of any buildings undergoing expansion or
addition, so as to require the issuance of a building permit, shall be brought
into conformance with all provisions of this section at the time the
renovations or additions are completed unless the proposed additions do not
exceed 30% of the floor area of the structure. Re-shingling, re-roofing or
replacement of windows shall not constitute a renovation which requires the
existing building to be brought into conformance with this section.
            2.   Any buildings undergoing exterior facade changes which do not
include structural changes to the building shall bring the exterior building
materials into compliance with this section unless the proposed facade changes
do not exceed 30% of the gross wall elevations for all sides of the entire
structure. For structures on corner lots this percentage is increased to 50% of
the gross wall elevation of all sides of the structure.
         (b)   Existing building materials not specifically approved in this
section may be allowed to be repaired or replaced only after it is
demonstrated, to the satisfaction of the City Council that the proposed
building meets three or more of the following standards:
            1.   The building shall be an accessory structure.
            2.   The building shall not be occupied by personnel.
            3.   The building shall be used to house materials, parts, or
equipment that would otherwise constitute open storage.
            4.   The building shall be generally not visible from arterial or
collector roadway corridors, as defined by the city.
            5.   The landscaping of the area surrounding the location shall
provide natural visual barriers to the building.
            6.   The building shall be constructed of long-term maintenance
free materials. A manufacturer’s warranty shall be prima-facie evidence of
compliance with this standard.
            7.   The proposed building is an addition to a structure that
currently utilizes such materials and application of required design standards
would be infeasible or impractical as determined by the City Council.
         (c)   It is recognized that there may be projects that require a
departure from the requirements in this section in order to be feasible. Any
deviance from the standards prescribed in this section will require a variance
according to §
152.010 of this chapter. Additional possible grounds to be considered in
determining possible reasons for granting exceptions to this section are as
follows: safety, public benefit, unique site or building characteristics or
that complying with this section would have a detrimental effect on the use of
the property. Financial hardship alone is not a basis to grant an exception.
Exceptions will be reviewed by the Planning Commission who provides a
recommendation to the City Council for action.
      (11)   Site plan review required. No building permit shall be issued for
construction, expansion or remodeling in the C-2 District until a site plan
review, pursuant to §
152.015 of this chapter has been approved by the City Council to determine that
the use and development is consistent with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.092 (C-I) COMMERCIAL-INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide land in proximity
to major thoroughfares for the development of certain activities that will
strengthen local employment opportunity and tax base of the city. Such a zone
will be characterized by a positive overall visual appearance that is
compatible with the predominant residential aesthetic character of the city.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following uses are permitted in the C-
I District:
      (1)   Commercial establishments requiring large sites for outdoor
display, sales, and storage (farm implement sales, motor vehicle sales, mobile
home sales, and building material sales are examples).
      (2)   Wholesale businesses.
      (3)   Uses permitted in C-1 Highway Business District.
      (4)   Offices and administrative facilities.
      (5)   Manufacturing.
      (6)   Warehousing including self-storage or mini-storage facilities.
      (7)   Veterinary clinic, animal care, animal shelter, pet daycare, pet
training, or animal hospital.
      (8)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      (9)   Instructional classes.
      (10)   Automobile repair.
      (11)   Building materials sales.
      (12)   Commercial catering businesses.
      (13)   Commercial printing establishments.
      (14)   Compounding, assembly, packaging, treatment, or storage of
products and materials except waste.
      (15)   Governmental and public buildings and structures.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, the following are permitted accessory
uses in the C-I District:
      (1)   Buildings and structures for a use accessory to the principal use
but such use shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor space of the principal
use.
      (2)   Fences as regulated by §
152.057 of this chapter.
      (3)   Off-street loading as regulated by §
152.068 of this chapter.
      (4)   Off-street parking as regulated by §
152.067 of this chapter, including semitrailer trucks.
      (5)   Outdoor storage and parking of land/sea containers and semi-tractor
trailers as regulated by §
152.058 of this chapter.
      (6)   Signs as regulated by §
152.071 of this chapter.
      (7)   Roof-mounted wind energy conversion systems (WECS) as regulated by
§
152.066 of this chapter.
      (8)   Ground source heat pump systems as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (9)   Roof or building mounted, ground mounted and community solar energy
systems as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
   (D)   Conditional uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following are conditional uses in the C-
I District and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by §
152.012 of this chapter.
      (1)   Multiple principal buildings on one lot of record.
      (2)   Animal kennels for dogs, cats and other domestic animals provided
that:
         (a)   The facility shall be licensed in accordance with the rules of
the Minnesota Board of Animal Health.
         (b)   Indoor animal kennel floors and walls shall be made of nonporous
materials or sealed to make it nonporous.
         (c)   A room or cage separate from the primary kennel area shall be
provided to adequately separate animals that are sick or injured from healthy
animals.
         (d)   All animal waste shall be disposed of at least once per day to
prevent a public nuisance by being flushed down an existing sanitary sewer
system or enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors
and organisms that shall be emptied by a waste disposal service a minimum of
two times every seven days, or as otherwise determined to be necessary to
protect public health, safety and welfare.
         (e)   A ventilation system shall be provided capable of completely
exchanging internal air.
         (f)   Within a multiple tenant building, there shall be adequate
physical separation, including soundproofing, between the kennel and other
individual tenant spaces to protect public health and safety and prevent
nuisance issues.
         (g)   Outdoor exercise areas shall be allowed for a kennel within a
single occupancy building only, subject to the following requirements:
            1.   The property shall be set back a minimum of 500 feet from any
residential district.
            2.   The outdoor exercise area shall be located only within an
interior side yard or rear yard.
            3.   The outdoor exercise area shall be set back a minimum of 15
feet from all lot lines.
            4.   A solid fence with a minimum height of six feet shall be
provided to screen the outdoor exercise area from surrounding properties and
public rights-of-way.
            5.   An attendant shall be present at all times to control animals
that are outdoors and prevent nuisance issues including, but not limited to,
noise.
            6.   No animals shall be allowed to be outdoors between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (3)   Automobile repair provided that:
         (a)   Not less than 25% of the lot, parcel or tract of land shall
remain as landscaped green area according to the approved landscape plan.
         (b)   The entire area other than occupied by buildings or structures
or planting shall be surfaced with bituminous material or concrete which will
control dust and drainage. The entire area shall have a perimeter curb barrier,
a stormwater drainage system and is subject to the approval of the City
Engineer.
         (c)   The hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.,.
Evening hours of operation shall be subject to the approval by the city.
         (d)   All painting must be conducted in an approved paint booth. All
paint booths and all other activities of the operation shall thoroughly control
the emission of fumes, dust or other particulate matter so that the use shall
be in compliance with the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards,
Minnesota Regulation APC 1-15, as amended.
      (4)   Commercial towers as regulated by §
152.065 of this chapter.
      (5)   Motor vehicle fuel sales with or without convenience grocery and/or
prepared food, provided that:
         (a)   The sale of food items is in compliance with state and county
standards.
         (b)   Vehicle fuel facilities are installed in accordance with state
standards. Adequate space shall be provided to access fueling station and allow
maneuverability around the pumps. Underground fuel storage tanks are to be
positioned to allow adequate access by automotive fuel transports and unloading
operations minimize conflict with circulation, access and other activities on
the site.
         (c)   Wherever fuel stations are to be installed, station islands
shall be installed.
         (d)   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined
and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachments by
parked cars or moving vehicles.
   (E)   Interim uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of this
section, the following are interim uses in the C-I District and are further
governed by §
152.013 of this chapter:
      (1)   Outdoor service, sale and rental as an accessory use, provided
that:
         (a)   Outside services, sales and equipment rental connected with the
principal use is limited to 30% of the gross floor area of the principal use.
         (b)   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or an abutting residential district.
         (c)   Sales area is surfaced with asphalt, concrete or pavers to
control dust.
         (d)   The use does not take up parking space as required for
conformity to this chapter.
         (e)   The interim use permit shall terminate upon a change of
occupancy or other date as determined by the City Council in accordance with §
152.013 of this chapter.
      (2)   Cannabis businesses including cannabis cultivation, cannabis
manufacturer, hemp manufacturer, wholesale, cannabis retail, cannabis
transportation and cannabis delivery as regulated by
Chapter 115 of the Mayer, Minnesota Code of Ordinances.
   (F)   Uses by administrative permit. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of
this section and performance standards established by this chapter, and
processing requirements of §
152.016 of this chapter, the following are uses allowed in the C-I District by
administrative permit:
      (1)   Daycare accessory to a principal use.
      (2)   Sales, rental or display (indoor and outdoor) as an accessory use
in association with an allowed principal use provided that:
         (a)   The area so occupied shall not exceed 10% of the principal
building.
         (b)   No storage or display of merchandise shall be permitted in
required rear, side or front yards and shall be limited to the area of the
customer entrances.
         (c)   The outdoor sales, rental, or display area shall not occupy
space required for parking.
      (3)   Temporary structures as regulated by §
152.052 of this chapter.
      (4)   Essential services.
   (G)   Lot requirements, setbacks and building height. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the C-I District subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area: 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width: 100 feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback: 30 feet.
      (4)   Side yard setback: 20 feet or 30 feet abutting a residential
district.
      (5)   Side yard setback abutting public right-of-way: 30 feet.
      (6)   Rear yard setback: 30 feet.
      (7)   Residential district setback: 50 feet.
      (8)   Lot coverage: 85%.
      (9)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Principal building: 40 feet.
         (b)   Accessory buildings: 20 feet.
   (H)   Design standards. The following special requirements shall apply to
those uses in the C-I District in addition to the requirements listed in §
152.063 of this chapter.
      (1)   Prohibited structures.
         (a)   Building types. No basement, shack, shed, trailer, tent, or
other structure of a temporary character shall be constructed, placed,
maintained, or used on any lot except accessory to and during construction of
the permanent building.
         (b)   Building materials. Face materials, which rapidly deteriorate or
become unsightly such as galvanized metal, unfinished structural clay shall not
be used.
      (2)   Permitted building materials. Structural systems of all buildings
shall be in compliance with the Uniform Building Code as adopted and in effect
in the City of Mayer at the time of application for a building permit. The
lower 30% of the exterior front of all buildings, as measured from ground
elevation, facing the main access street shall consist of materials comparable
in grade and quality to the following:
         (a)   Brick.
         (b)   Natural stone.
         (c)   Pre-cast concrete units and concrete block, provided that
surfaces are molded, serrated or treated with a textured material in order to
give the wall surface a three-dimensional character.
         (d)   Wood, provided surfaces are finished for exterior use and only
woods of proven exterior durability such as cedar, redwood and cypress.
      (3)   Variance to 30% requirement. The 30% requirement may be varied as
determined appropriate to accommodate taller buildings or new buildings
constructed next to or in the immediate vicinity of other buildings in order to
provide a uniform and consistent effect for the area.
      (4)   Planning Commission approval. If material other than those listed
above or a variance for the 30% requirement is proposed, it shall be subject to
review by the Planning Commission and approval by the City Council.
      (5)   Outside storage and screening. All materials, supplies, merchandise
or other similar matter not on display for direct sale, rental or lease to the
ultimate consumer or user, except those items exempt in §
152.058 of this chapter, shall be stored within a completely enclosed building
or within the confines of a 100% opaque wall or fence eight feet in height.
Merchandise that is offered for sale as described heretofore may be displayed
beyond the confines of a building, but the area occupied by such outdoor
display shall not constitute a greater number of square feet than 10% of the
ground floor area of the building housing the principal use, unless such
merchandise is of a type customarily displayed outdoors, such as garden
supplies.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.093 (I-1) LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the I-1 District is to provide for the
establishment of warehousing and light industrial development. The overall
character of the I-1 District is intended to have an office/warehouse
character, thus industrial uses allowed in this district shall be limited to
those which can compatibly exist adjacent to both lower intensity business uses
and high intensity manufacturing uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following uses are permitted in the I-
1 District:
      (1)   Automobile repair.
      (2)   Building materials sales.
      (3)   Commercial catering businesses.
      (4)   Commercial printing establishments.
      (5)   Compounding, assembly, packaging, treatment, or storage of products
and materials except waste.
      (6)   Distribution facility.
      (7)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures.
      (8)   Indoor firearm and archery ranges.
      (9)   Instructional classes.
      (10)   Laboratories, research and development facilities.
      (11)   Manufacturing.
      (12)   Offices and administrative facilities.
      (13)   Transportation terminals.
      (14)   Warehousing, including self-storage or mini-storage facilities.
      (15)   Wholesale businesses.
      (16)   Data centers.
      (17)   Breweries and small breweries.
      (18)   Distilleries and micro-distilleries.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, the following are permitted accessory
uses in the I-1 District:
      (1)   Buildings and structures for a use accessory to the principal use
but such use shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor space of the principal
use.
      (2)   Fences as regulated by §
152.057 of this chapter.
      (3)   Off-street loading as regulated by §
152.068 of this chapter.
      (4)   Off-street parking as regulated by §
152.067 of this chapter, including semitrailer trucks.
      (5)   Outdoor storage and parking of land/sea containers and semi-
tractor trailers as regulated by §
152.058 of this chapter.
      (6)   Signs as regulated by §
152.071 of this chapter.
      (7)   Sexually oriented uses, accessory, as regulated by
Chapter 114 of the Mayer, Minnesota Code of Ordinances.
      (8)   Roof-mounted wind energy conversion systems (WECS) as regulated by
§
152.066 of this chapter.
      (9)   Ground source heat pump systems as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (10)   Roof or building mounted, ground mounted and community solar
energy systems as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
   (D)   Conditional uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following are conditional uses in the I-
1 District and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by §
152.012 of this chapter.
      (1)   Multiple principal buildings on one lot of record.
      (2)   Animal kennels for dogs, cats and other domestic animals provided
that:
         (a)   The facility shall be licensed in accordance with the rules of
the Minnesota Board of Animal Health.
         (b)   Indoor animal kennel floors and walls shall be made of nonporous
materials or sealed to make it nonporous.
         (c)   A room or cage separate from the primary kennel area shall be
provided to adequately separate animals that are sick or injured from healthy
animals.
         (d)   All animal waste shall be disposed of at least once per day to
prevent a public nuisance by being flushed down an existing sanitary sewer
system or enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors
and organisms that shall be emptied by a waste disposal service a minimum of
two times every seven days, or as otherwise determined to be necessary to
protect public health, safety and welfare.
         (e)   A ventilation system shall be provided capable of completely
exchanging internal air.
         (f)   Within a multiple tenant building, there shall be adequate
physical separation, including soundproofing, between the kennel and other
individual tenant spaces to protect public health and safety and prevent
nuisance issues.
         (g)   Outdoor exercise areas shall be allowed for a kennel within a
single occupancy building only, subject to the following requirements:
            1.   The property shall be set back a minimum of 500 feet from any
residential district.
            2.   The outdoor exercise area shall be located only within an
interior side yard or rear yard.
            3.   The outdoor exercise area shall be set back a minimum of 15
feet from all lot lines.
            4.   A solid fence with a minimum height of six feet shall be
provided to screen the outdoor exercise area from surrounding properties and
public rights-of-way.
            5.   An attendant shall be present at all times to control animals
that are outdoors and prevent nuisance issues including, but not limited to,
noise.
            6.   No animals shall be allowed to be outdoors between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (3)   Automobile repair provided that:
         (a)   Not less than 25% of the lot, parcel or tract of land shall
remain as landscaped green area according to the approved landscape plan.
         (b)   The entire area other than occupied by buildings or structures
or planting shall be surfaced with bituminous material or concrete which will
control dust and drainage. The entire area shall have a perimeter curb barrier,
a stormwater drainage system and is subject to the approval of the City
Engineer.
         (c)   The hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00) p.m.
Evening hours of operation shall be subject to the approval by the city.
         (d)   All painting must be conducted in an approved paint booth. All
paint booths and all other activities of the operation shall thoroughly control
the emission of fumes, dust or other particulate matter so that the use shall
be in compliance with the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards,
Minnesota Regulation APC 1-15, as amended.
      (4)   Commercial towers as regulated by §
152.065 of this chapter.
      (5)   Sexually oriented uses, principal, as regulated by
Chapter 114 of the Mayer, Minnesota Code of Ordinances.
      (6)   Data centers.
   (E)   Interim uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of this
section, the following are interim uses in the I-1 District and are further
governed by §
152.013 of this chapter.
      (1)   Outdoor service, sale and rental as an accessory use, provided
that:
         (a)   Outside services, sales and equipment rental connected with the
principal use is limited to 30% of the gross floor area of the principal use.
         (b)   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or an abutting residential district.
         (c)   Sales area is surfaced with asphalt, concrete or pavers to
control dust.
         (d)   The use does not take up parking space as required for
conformity to this chapter.
         (e)   The interim use permit shall terminate upon a change of
occupancy or other date as determined by the City Council in accordance with §
152.013 of this chapter.
      (2)   Solar farms as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (3)   Cannabis businesses including cannabis cultivation, cannabis
manufacturer, hemp manufacturer, wholesale, cannabis transportation and
cannabis delivery as regulated by
Chapter 115 of the Mayer, Minnesota Code of Ordinances.
   (F)   Uses by administrative permit. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of
this section and performance standards established by this chapter, and
processing requirements of §
152.016 of this chapter, the following are uses allowed in the I-I District by
administrative permit:
      (1)   Daycare accessory to a principal use.
      (2)   Sales, rental or display (indoor and outdoor) as an accessory use
in association with an allowed principal use provided that:
         (a)   The area so occupied shall not exceed 10% of the principal
building.
         (b)   No storage or display of merchandise shall be permitted in
required rear, side or front yards and shall be limited to the area of the
customer entrances.
         (c)   The outdoor sales, rental, or display area shall not occupy
space required for parking.
      (3)   Temporary structures as regulated by §
152.052 of this chapter.
      (4)   Essential services.
   (G)   Lot requirements, setbacks and building height. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the I-1 District subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area: 30,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width: 120 feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback: 40 feet.
      (4)   Side yard setback: 30 feet or 50 feet abutting a residential
district.
      (5)   Side yard setback abutting public right-of-way: 30 feet.
      (6)   Rear yard setback: 30 feet.
      (7)   Residential district setback: 50 feet.
      (8)   Lot coverage: 85%.
      (9)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Principal building: 50 feet or four stories, whichever is less.
         (b)   Accessory buildings: 25 feet.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.094 (P-I) PUBLIC-INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is intended that the P-I District provide for a specific
zoning district allowing facilities devoted to serving the public and
opportunities for government facilities, schools, churches, hospitals,
libraries, parks and other similar public and institutional uses. It is unique
in that the primary objective of uses within this district is the provision of
services, frequently on a nonprofit basis, rather than the sale of goods or
services. It is intended that uses within such a district will be compatible
with adjoining development, and they normally will be located along arterial or
major collector streets with full availability of urban services.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following uses are permitted in the P-
I District:
      (1)   Government buildings, structures and facilities, including
community centers, public works buildings and fire stations, utilities, rights-
of-way, easements, parks, open spaces and vacant land.
      (2)   Schools, religious institutions, cultural and educational
facilities, and uses, libraries, fire stations, hospitals, health facilities,
and emergency medical facilities.
      (3)   Communication towers, subject to requirements in §
152.065 of this chapter.
      (4)   Parks, trails, play fields, playgrounds and directly related
buildings and structures.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, the following are permitted accessory
uses in the P-I District:
      (1)   Roof-mounted wind energy conversion systems (WECS) as regulated by
§
152.066 of this chapter.
      (2)   Ground source heat pump systems as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (3)   Roof or building mounted, ground mounted and community solar energy
systems as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (4)   Accessory uses and buildings incidental and customary to uses
allowed as permitted, conditional, interim and administrative permits in this
section.
      (5)   Fences as regulated by §
152.057 of this chapter.
      (6)   Signs as regulated by §
152.071 of this chapter.
      (7)   Roof-mounted wind energy conversion systems (WECS).
      (8)   Ground source heat pump systems.
   (D)   Conditional uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, the following are conditional uses in the P-
I District and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by §
152.012 of this chapter.
      (1)   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS) mounted on a tower as
regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (2)   Automobile parking lots, City of Mayer only, as a principal use.
      (3)   Public civic auditoriums, indoor recreation centers, arenas or
other facilities, with an event seating capacity of more than 300 persons.
   (E)   Interim uses. In addition to other uses specifically identified
elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of this
section, the following are interim uses in the P-I District and are further
governed by §
152.013 of this chapter:
      (1)   Solar farms as regulated by §
152.066 of this chapter.
      (2)   Temporary classroom type structure for use by public institutions.
   (F)   Uses by administrative permit. In addition to other uses specifically
identified elsewhere in this chapter, and subject to applicable provisions of
this section and performance standards established by this chapter, and
processing requirements of §
152.016 of this chapter, the following are uses allowed in the P-I District by
administrative permit:
      (1)   Essential services.
      (2)   Temporary structures as regulated by §
152.052 of this chapter.
   (G)   Lot requirements, setbacks and building height. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the P-I District subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter;
      (1)   Lot area: 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width: 100 feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback: 30 feet.
      (4)   Side yard setback: 30 feet.
      (5)   Side yard setback abutting public right-of-way: 30 feet.
      (6)   Rear yard setback: 30 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage: 50%.
      (8)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Principal building: 40 feet.
         (b)   Accessory buildings: 20 feet.
   (H)   Design standards. The architectural appearance and functional design
of the building and site shall maintain a high standard of architectural and
aesthetic compatibility with surrounding uses so as to positively reflect the
desired community character. All sides of the principal and accessory
structures are to have essentially the same or coordinated, harmonious exterior
finish materials and treatment.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.095 ZONING STANDARDS TABLE.
         Minimum
         Lot Area Minimum   Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard Maximum  Maximum Lot
District or Lot   Lot Width Setback    Setback   Setback   Building Coverage
         Area Per                                          Height
         Unit
         Minimum
         Lot Area   Minimum    Front Yard Side Yard   Rear    Maximum    Maximum
District or Lot     Lot Width  Setback    Setback     Yard    Building   Lot
         Area Per                                     Setback Height     Coverage
         Unit
                                                              3 stories
                                                              or 35 ft
A-1      40 acres   300 ft     50 ft      50 ft       50 ft   Farming    None
                                                              related
                                                              buildings:
                                                              50 ft
         Interior:  Interior:             Interior:
         10,500 sq  80 ft                 10 ft
R-1      ft                    30 ft                  30 ft   3 stories  35%
         Corner:    Corner: 95            Corner: 25          or 35 ft
         12,000 sq  ft                    ft
         ft
         Interior:  Interior:             Interior:
         8,400 sq   65 ft      25 ft      7.5 ft      30 ft              40%
         ft
         Corner:                          Corner: 20                     Detached
         10,000 sq                        ft                             townhouse:
         ft                                                              50%2
         Detached                         Base lot
         townhouse:                       detached
         5,00 sq                          townhouse &
R-2      ft/unit1                         two-family:         3 stories
                    Corner:    Base lot:  7.5 ft      Base    or 35 ft
                    77.5 ft    25 ft      Detached    lot: 30 Two-
                                          townhouse:  ft      family:
         Two-                             15 ft               50%2
         family:                          between
         5,000 sq                         buildings
         ft/unit1   Two-
                    family: 15
                    ft between
                    buildings
         Detached                         Base lot
         townhouse:            Public     detached
         5,000 sq              ROW: 25 ft townhouse &
         ft/unit1                         two-family:
                                          7.5 ft
         Two-                             Base lot
         family:               Base lot:  townhouse:
         5,000 sq              25 ft      10 ft.
         ft/unit1
                                          Detached    Base
R-3                                       townhouse:  lot: 30 3 stories  50%2
                                          15 ft       ft      or 35 ft
                                          between
                               Private    buildings
         Townhouse: Two-       street
         3,800 sq   family: 15 curb: 25
         ft/unit1   ft between ft
                    buildings
                    Townhouse:
                    20 ft
                    between
                    buildings
         Multiple-             Public ROW
         family:    Multiple-  two-family Base lot            3 stories  Two-
         20,000 sq  family:    &          two-family:         or 35 ft   family:
         ft         100 ft     townhouse: 7.5 ft                         50%2
                               20 ft
                               Public ROW
                               multiple-                      Multiple-
         Senior:    Senior:    family,    Base lot            family: 4  Townhouse:
         20,000 sq  100 ft     senior &   townhouse:          stories or 50%2
         ft                    nursing    10 ft               45 ft
                               homes: 30
                               ft
                                          Base lot
         Nursing               Base lot   multiple-
         homes:                two-       family,                        Multiple-
         20,000 sq             family &   senior &                       family:
         ft                    townhouse: nursing                        60%
                               25 ft      homes: 30
                                          ft
                               Base lot
         Two-                  multiple-  Two-family: Base
R-4      family:               family,    14 ft       lot: 30
         5,000 sq              senior &   between     ft
         ft/unit1              nursing    buildings
                               homes: 35
                               ft
                    Nursing    Private                        Senior: 4
         Townhouse: homes: 100 street     Townhouse:          stories or
         3,800 sq   ft         curb two-  20 ft               45 ft
         ft/unit1              family &   between
                               townhouse: buildings   Senior:
                               25 ft                  60%
         Multiple-                        Multiple-
         family:               Private    family: 25
         1,500 sq              street     ft between
         ft/unit1              curb       buildings
         Senior:               multiple-  Senior: 25
         1,000 sq              family,    ft between
         ft/unit1              senior &   buildings
         Nursing               nursing    Nursing
         homes:                homes: 35  homes: 25
         1,000 sq              ft         ft between
         ft/unit1                         buildings
                                          Interior:
                                          20 ft
         20,000 sq                        Corner: 30
C-1      ft         100 ft     20 ft      ft          30 ft   40 ft      75%
                                          Residential
                                          District:
                                          30 ft
C-2      7,500 sq   50 ft      None       None        None    40 ft      None
         ft
                                          Interior:
                                          20 ft
         15,000 sq                        Corner 30
C-I      ft         100 ft     30 ft      ft          30 ft   40 ft      85%
                                          Residential
                                          District:
                                          30 ft
                                          Interior:
                                          30 ft
         30,000 sq                        Corner: 30          4 stories
I-1      ft         120 ft     40 ft      ft          30 ft   or 50 ft   85%
                                          Residential
                                          District:
                                          40 ft
                                          Interior:
P-1      20,000 sq  100 ft     30 ft      30 ft       30 ft   40 ft      50%
         ft                               Corner: 30
                                          ft
1 Minimum lot area per dwelling unit
2 Lot coverage is to include both the base lot and unit lot.
 
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.096 (SL) SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The uncontrolled use of shorelands of Mayer affects the public
health, safety and general welfare not only by contributing to pollution of
public waters, but also by impairing the local tax base. Therefore, it is in
the best interests of the public health, safety and welfare to provide for the
wise subdivision, use and development of shorelands of public waters. The
Legislature of Minnesota has delegated responsibility to local governments of
the state to regulate the subdivision, use and development of the shorelands of
public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters,
conserve the economic and natural environmental values of shorelands, and
provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources. This
responsibility is hereby recognized by Mayer.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this section shall apply to the
shorelands of the public waters as classified in division (E) of this section.
Pursuant to Minnesota Rules, Parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900, lakes, ponds,
or flowage less than ten acres in size are exempt from this chapter. A body of
water created by a private user where there was no previous shoreland is exempt
from this section.
   (C)   Variances. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments shall hear and decide
requests for variances in accordance with the rules that it has adopted for the
conduct of business. When a variance is approved after the Department of
Natural Resources has formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the
notification of the approved variance required in division (D) hereof shall
also include the summary of the public record/testimony and the findings of
facts and conclusions which supported the issuance of the variance. For
existing developments, the application for variance shall clearly demonstrate
whether a conforming sewage treatment system is present for the intended use of
the property. The variance, if issued, shall require reconstruction of a
nonconforming sewage treatment system.
   (D)   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources. Copies of all
notices of any public hearings to consider variances or amendments under local
shoreland management controls shall be sent to the Department of Natural
Resources Commissioner’s designated representative and postmarked at least ten
days before the hearings. Notices of hearings to consider proposed
subdivisions/plats shall include copies of the subdivision/plat. A copy of
approved amendments and subdivisions/plats, and final decisions granting
variances under local shoreland management controls shall be sent to the
Commissioner’s designated representative and postmarked within ten days of
final action.
   (E)   Shoreland classification system. The public waters of Mayer have been
classified below consistent with the criteria found in Minnesota Rules, Part
6120.3300, and the Protected Waters Inventory Map for Carver County, Minnesota.
The shoreland area for the waterbodies listed below shall be as defined in this
section and as shown on the official zoning map.
      (1)   Rivers and streams.
         (a)   Tributary streams: South Fork Crow River.
   (F)   Lot area and width standards. The lot area (in square feet) and lot
width standards (in feet) for single, duplex, triplex and quad residential lots
created after the date of enactment of this chapter for the lake and river/
stream classification are as follows:
      (1)   Sewered tributary rivers/streams lot widths. There are no minimum
lot size requirements for rivers and streams. The lot width standards for
single, duplex, triplex and quad residential developments for tributary rivers
or streams are as follows:
 
Unit    Lot Width
Single  75 feet
Duplex  100 feet
Triplex 120 feet
Quad    120 feet
 
      (2)   Only land above the ordinary high-water level of public waters
shall be used to meet lot area standards, and lot width standards shall be met
at both the ordinary high-water level and at the building line.
   (G)   Placement of structures on lots.
      (1)   When more than one setback applies to a site, structures and
facilities shall be located to meet all setbacks. Structures and on-site sewage
treatment systems shall be set back from the ordinary high-water level as
follows:
 
Classes of Public Sewered Structures Unsewered Structures Sewage Treatment
Waters                                                    System
Tributary river   50 feet            100 feet             75 feet
 
      (2)   When a structure exists on a lot on either side, the setback of a
proposed structure shall be the greater of the distances set forth in the above
table or the setback of the existing structure. One water-oriented accessory
structure, designed in accordance with these provisions, may be set back a
minimum distance of ten feet from the ordinary high-water level.
   (H)   Additional structure setbacks. The following additional structure
setbacks apply, regardless of the classification of the waterbody:
 
Setback from                                                     Setback
Top of bluff                                                     30 feet
Unplatted cemetery                                               50 feet
Right-of-way line of federal, state, county highway              50 feet
Right-of-way line of town road, public street, or other roads or 20 feet
streets not classified
 
   (I)   Bluff impact zones. Structures and accessory facilities, except
stairways and landings, shall not be placed within bluff impact zones.
   (J)   Non-residential uses without water-oriented needs. Non-residential
uses without water-oriented needs shall be located on lots or parcels without
public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels with public waters
frontage, shall either be set back double the normal ordinary high water level
setback or be substantially screened from view from the water by vegetation or
topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
   (K)   Design criteria for structures.
      (1)   High water elevations. Structures shall be placed in accordance
with any floodplain regulations applicable to the site as outlined in §
152.097 of this chapter. Where these controls do not exist, the elevation to
which the lowest floor, including basement, is placed or flood-proofed shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   For lakes, by placing the lowest floor at a level at least three
feet above the highest known water level, or three feet above the ordinary
high-water level, whichever is higher.
         (b)   For rivers and streams classified by the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources, by placing the lowest floor at least three feet above the
flood of record, if data are available. If data are not available, by placing
the lowest floor at least three feet above the ordinary high-water level, or by
conducting a technical evaluation to determine effects of proposed construction
upon flood stages and flood flows and to establish a flood protection
elevation. Under all three approaches, technical evaluations shall be done by a
qualified engineer or hydrologist consistent with Minnesota Rules, Parts
6120.5000 to 6120.6200, governing the management of floodplain areas. If more
than one approach is used, the highest flood protection elevation determined
shall be used for placing structures and other facilities.
         (c)   Water-oriented accessory structures may have the lowest floor
placed lower than the elevation determined in this item if the structure is
construed of flood-resistant materials to the elevation, electrical and
mechanical equipment is placed above the elevation and, if long-duration
flooding is anticipated, the structure is built to withstand ice action and
wind-driven waves and debris.
      (2)   Water-oriented accessory structures. Each lot may have one water-
oriented accessory structure not meeting the normal structure setback in this
subchapter if this water-oriented accessory structure complies with the
following provisions:
         (a)   The structure or facility shall not exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than 250 square
feet. Detached decks shall not exceed eight feet above grade at any point.
         (b)   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary high-
water level shall be at least ten feet.
         (c)   The structure or facility shall be treated to reduce visibility
as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks, or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
         (d)   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but shall not
be enclosed or used as a storage area.
         (e)   The structure or facility shall not be designed or used for
human habitation and shall not contain water supply or sewage treatment
facilities.
      (3)   Stairway, lifts and landings. Stairways and lifts are the preferred
alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access up and down
bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lifts shall meet the
following design requirements:
         (a)   Stairways and lifts shall not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open-space recreational properties, and planned residential developments.
         (b)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots shall not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties, public open-space, and recreational properties.
         (c)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts, or
landings.
         (d)   Stairways, lifts, and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion.
         (e)   Stairways, lifts, and landings shall be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical.
         (f)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts, or mobility paths for
physically handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore
areas, provided that the dimensional and performance standards of division (K)
(3)(a) through (e) of this section are complied with in addition to the
requirements of Minnesota Rules, Chapter 1340.
      (4)   Significant historic sites. No structure shall be placed on a
significant historic site in a manner that affects the values of the site
unless adequate information about the site has been removed and documented in a
public repository.
      (5)   Steep slopes. The City Administrator shall evaluate possible soil
erosion impacts and development visibility from public waters before issuing a
permit for construction of sewage treatment systems, roads, driveways,
structures, or other improvements on steep slopes. When determined necessary,
conditions shall be attached to permits to prevent erosion and to preserve
existing vegetative screening of structures, vehicles, and other facilities as
viewed from the surface of public waters, assuming summer, leaf-on vegetation.
   (L)   Height of structure. All structures in residential districts, except
churches and nonresidential agricultural structures, shall not exceed 35 in
height.
   (M)   Vegetation alterations.
      (1)   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of structures
and sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and parking areas
regulated herein are exempt from the following vegetation alteration standards.
      (2)   Removal or alteration of vegetation is allowed subject to the
following standards:
         (a)   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff impact
zones and on steep slopes is not allowed. Intensive vegetation clearing for
forest land conversion to another use outside of these areas is allowable if
permitted as part of a development approved by the City Council if an erosion
control and sedimentation plan is developed and approved by the soil and water
conservation district in which the property is located.
         (b)   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited
clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning, and trimming of trees is
allowed to provide a view of the water from the principal dwelling site and to
accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access
paths, livestock watering areas, beach and watercraft access areas, and
permitted water-oriented accessory structures or facilities, provided that:
            1.   The screening of structures, vehicles, or other facilities as
viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced.
            2.   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is preserved.
            3.   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of
trees, limbs, or branches that are dead, diseased, or pose safety hazards.
   (N)   Connections to public waters. Excavations where the intended purpose
is connection to public waters, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons, and
harbors, shall be controlled by this section. Permission for excavations may be
given only after the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources has
approved the proposed connection to public waters.
   (O)   Placement and design of roads, driveways, and parking areas.
      (1)   Public and private roads and parking areas shall be designed to
take advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum
screening from view from public waters. Documentation shall be provided by a
qualified individual that all roads and parking areas are designed and
constructed to minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with
the field office technical guides of the local soil and water conservation
district, or other applicable technical materials.
      (2)   Roads, driveways, and parking areas shall meet structure setbacks
and shall not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones, when other
reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist,
they may be placed within these areas, and shall be designed to minimize
adverse impacts.
      (3)   Public and watercraft access ramps, approach roads, and access-
related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones provided the
vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this chapter are met.
   (P)   Stormwater management. Impervious surface coverage of lots shall not
exceed 25% of the lot area.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.097 (FP) FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statutory authorization, findings of fact and purpose.
      (1)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the State of Minnesota
has, in M.S. Ch. 103F and 462 delegated the responsibility to local government
units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the
City Council does ordain as follows.
      (2)   Purpose.
         (a)   This section regulates development in the flood hazard areas of
the city. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic inundation, which
may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base. It is the purpose
of this section to promote the public health. safety, and general welfare by
minimizing these losses and disruptions.
         (b)   National Flood Insurance Program compliance. This section is
adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 59-78, as
amended, so as to maintain the community’s eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
         (c)   This section is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Lands to which this section applies. This section applies to all
lands within the jurisdiction of the city within the boundaries of the
floodway, flood fringe and general floodplain districts. The boundaries of
these districts are determined by scaling distances on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map, or as modified in accordance with division (C) of this section.
         (a)   The Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts are
overlay districts that are superimposed on all existing zoning districts. The
standards imposed in the overlay districts are in addition to any other
requirements in this chapter. In case of a conflict, the more restrictive
standards will apply.
         (b)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits
illustrated on the official floodplain maps and actual field conditions, the
flood elevations shall be the governing factor in locating the regulatory
floodplain limits.
         (c)   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will
be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board of Appeals
and Adjustments and to submit technical evidence.
      (2)   Incorporation of maps by reference.
         (a)   The following FIRMs together with all attached material are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of the official zoning
map and this chapter. The attached material includes the Flood Insurance Study
for Carver County, Minnesota, and Incorporated Areas, dated December 21, 2018
and the Flood Insurance Rate Map panels enumerated below, dated December 21,
2018, all prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. These materials
are on file at City Hall.
            1.   27019C0043D.
            2.   27019C0044D.
            3.   27019C0063D.
         (b)   Future city growth areas extend on to the following FIRMs:
            1.   27019C0045D.
            2.   27019C0061D.
            3.   27019C0160D.
            4.   27019C0180D.
      (3)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
section to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
other private agreements. However, where this section imposes greater
restrictions, the provisions of this section prevail. All other ordinances
inconsistent with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency only.
      (4)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This section does not imply
that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This section does not
create liability on the part of the city or its officers or employees for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this section or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
      (5)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
section is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of law, the
remainder of this section shall not be affected and shall remain in full force.
      (6)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, definitions relating to
floodplain management are located in §
152.005 of this chapter.
      (7)   Annexations. The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by
reference in division (B)(2) above may include floodplain areas that lie
outside of the corporate boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this
section. If any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after
the date of adoption of this section, the newly annexed floodplain lands will
be subject to the provisions of this section immediately upon the date of
annexation.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain districts.
      (1)   Districts.
         (a)   Floodway District. The Floodway District includes those areas
within Zones AE delineated within floodway areas as shown on the Flood
Insurance Rate Maps adopted in division (B) of this section as well as other
delineated lakes, wetlands and other basins, and are determined to be at or
below the ordinary high-water level as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 14.
         (b)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District includes areas
within Zones AE on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in division (B)(2) of
this section, but located outside of the floodway. For lakes, wetlands and
other basins within Zones A that do not have a floodway delineated, the Flood
Fringe District also includes those areas below the 1% annual chance (100-year)
flood elevation but above the ordinary high-water level as defined in M.S. §
103G.005, subd. 14.
         (c)   [Reserved for General Floodplain District.]
      (2)   Applicability. Where Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts are
delineated on the floodplain maps, the standards in divisions (E) and (F) of
this section will apply, depending on the location of a property. Locations
where Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts are not delineated on the floodplain
maps are considered to fall within the General Floodplain District. Within the
General Floodplain District, the Floodway District standards in division (E) of
this section apply unless the floodway boundary is determined, according to the
process outlined in division (N) of this section.
   (D)   Requirements for all Floodplain Districts.
      (1)   Permit required. A permit must be obtained from the City
Administrator to verify if a development meets all applicable standards
outlined in this section prior to conducting the following activities:
         (a)   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation, or
alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof. Normal maintenance
and repair also requires a permit if such work, separately or in conjunction
with other planned work, constitutes a substantial improvement as defined in
this section.
         (b)   The construction of a dam, on-site septic system, or any fence
not meeting the definition of farm fence outlined in §
152.005 of this chapter.
         (c)   The change or extension of a nonconforming use.
         (d)   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source.
         (e)   The placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage
of materials or equipment within the floodplain.
         (f)   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse (including new or
replacement culverts and bridges), unless a public waters work permit has been
applied for.
         (g)   Any other type of development as defined in this section.
      (2)   Minimum development standards. All new construction and substantial
improvements must be:
         (a)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
floatation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage.
         (c)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         (d)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, ductwork,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.
      (3)   Flood capacity. Floodplain developments must not adversely affect
the hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system.
      (4)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
      (5)   Critical facilities, as defined in §
152.005 of this chapter, are to be located, so that the lowest floor is not
less than two feet above the regional flood elevation, or the 500-year flood
elevation, whichever is higher.
   (E)   Floodway District (FW).
      (1)   Permitted uses. The following uses, subject to the standards set
forth in division (E)(2) below, are permitted uses if otherwise allowed in the
underlying zoning district or any applicable overlay district.
         (a)   General farming, pasture, grazing, farm fences, outdoor plant
nurseries, horticulture, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting.
         (b)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas, and airport
landing strips.
         (c)   Open space uses, including but not limited to private and public
golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds,
boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves,
game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, hunting and fishing areas, and
single or multiple purpose recreational trails.
         (d)   Residential yards, lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas.
         (e)   Railroads. streets. bridges. utility transmission lines and
pipelines. provided that the Department of Natural Resources’ Area Hydrologist
is notified at least ten days prior to issuance of any permit.
      (2)   Standards for floodway permitted uses.
         (a)   The use must have a low flood damage potential.
         (b)   The use must not involve structures or obstruct flood flows. The
use must not cause any increase in flood damages, nor any increase in flood
elevations in areas where a floodway has been established, as certified by a
registered professional engineer.
         (c)   Any facility that will be used by employees or the general
public must be designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time
for evacuation if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the
depth (in feet) multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a
product of four upon occurrence of the regional (1% chance) flood.
      (3)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed as conditional
uses following the standards and procedures set forth in this section and
further subject to the standards set forth in division (E)(4) below, if
otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning district.
         (a)   Structures accessory to primary uses listed in division (E)(1)
(a) through (c) above and primary uses listed in division (E)(3)(b) and (c)
below.
         (b)   Grading, extraction. fill and storage of soil. sand, gravel, and
other materials.
         (c)   Marinas, boat rentals, permanent docks, piers, wharves. water
control structures, and navigational facilities.
         (d)   Storage yards for equipment. machinery, or materials.
         (e)   Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood flows.
         (f)   Levees or dikes intended to protect agricultural crops for a
frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency flood event.
      (4)   Standards for floodway conditional uses.
         (a)   A conditional use must not cause any increase in flood damages,
nor any increase in flood elevations in areas where a floodway has been
established, as certified by a registered professional engineer.
         (b)   Fill; storage of materials and equipment.
            1.   Fill, dredge spoil, and other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain must be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method. Permanent sand and gravel
operations and similar uses must be covered by a long-term site development
plan.
            2.   Temporary placement of fill. other materials, or equipment
which would cause an increase to the stage of the 1% chance or regional flood
may only be allowed if the city has approved a plan that assures removal of the
materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning time available.
         (c)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures, as identified in
division (E)(3)(a) above, may be permitted, provided that:
            1.   Structures are not intended for human habitation.
            2.   Structures will have a low flood damage potential.
            3.   Structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer a
minimal obstruction to the flow of floodwaters.
            4.   Structures must be elevated on fill or structurally dry
floodproofed and watertight to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
Certifications consistent with division (K)(2)(b) of this section shall be
required.
            5.   As an alternative, an accessory structure may be floodproofed
in a way to accommodate internal flooding. To allow for the equalization of
hydrostatic pressure, there shall be a minimum of two openings on at least two
sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than
one foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding, have a net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding, and shall allow automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters without human intervention. A floodproofing certification
consistent with division (K)(2)(b) of this section shall be required.
         (d)   Structural works for flood control that will change the course,
current or cross section of protected wetlands or public waters are subject to
the provisions of M.S. § 103G.245.
         (e)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway must not
cause an increase to the 1% chance or regional flood. The technical analysis
must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
   (F)   Flood Fringe District (FF).
      (1)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses are those uses of land or structures
allowed in the underlying zoning district(s) that comply with the standards in
division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses.
         (a)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated
on fill so that the lowest floor, as defined, is at or above the regulatory
flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for structures must be
no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation and the
fill must extend at the same elevation at least 15 feet beyond the outside
limits of the structure. Elevations must be certified by a registered
professional engineer, land surveyor or other qualified person designated by
the community.
         (b)   Accessory structures. As an alternative to the fill requirements
of division (F)(2)(a) above, structures accessory to the uses identified in
division (F)(1) above may be designed to accommodate the inundation of
floodwaters, meeting the following provisions, as appropriate:
            1.   The accessory structure constitutes a minimal investment and
satisfy the development requirements in division (D)(2) of this section.
            2.   Any enclosed accessory structure shall not exceed 576 square
feet in size, and only be used for parking and storage, Any such structure
shall be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer, or be
designed in accordance with the following floodproofing standards: to allow for
the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there shall be a minimum of two
openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings
shall be no higher than one foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum
net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding, have a net area of not less than one square inch for
every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding, and shall allow
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters without human intervention.
         (c)   The cumulative placement of fill or similar material on a parcel
must not exceed 1,000 cubic yards, unless the fill is specifically intended to
elevate a structure in accordance with division (F)(1)(a) above, or if allowed
as a conditional use under division (F)(3)(b) below.
         (d)   All service utilities, including ductwork, must be elevated or
water-tight to prevent infiltration of floodwaters.
         (e)   All fill must be properly compacted and the slopes must be
properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable
method.
         (f)   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or
above an elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation, or must have a flood warning/emergency evacuation plan acceptable to
the city.
         (g)   Accessory uses such as yards, railroad tracks, and parking lots
may be at an elevation lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation.
However, any facilities used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation
if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth (in feet)
multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a product of four
upon occurrence of the regional (1% chance) flood.
         (h)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must meet the
standards of division (J) of this section.
      (3)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed as conditional
uses following the standards and procedures set forth in division (K)(4) of
this section and further subject to the standards set forth in division (K)(4)
below, if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning district(s).
         (a)   The placement of floodproofed nonresidential basements below the
regulatory flood protection elevation. Residential basements, are not allowed
below the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The cumulative placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill
when the fill is not being used to elevate a structure in accordance with
division (K)(4)(a) below.
      (4)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses.
         (a)   The standards for permitted uses in the flood fringe, listed in
(F)(2)(d) through (h) above, apply to all conditional uses.
         (b)   All areas of nonresidential structures, including basements, to
be placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation must be structurally
dry floodproofed, which requires making the structure watertight with the walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effects of buoyancy. A floodproofing certification consistent with division (K)
(2)(b) of this section shall be required.
         (c)   The placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other
similar material on a parcel (other than for the purpose of elevating a
structure to the regulatory flood protection elevation) must comply with an
approved erosion/sedimentation control plan.
            1.   The plan must clearly specify methods to be used to stabilize
the fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the regional (1% chance)
flood event.
            2.   The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the city.
            3.   The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal of
the material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
   (G)   General Floodplain District (GF). [Reserved.]
   (H)   Subdivision standards.
      (1)   Subdivisions. No land may be subdivided which is unsuitable for
reasons of flooding or inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. Manufactured home parks and recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are considered subdivisions under this section.
         (a)   All lots within the floodplain districts must be able to contain
a building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the regulatory
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   All subdivisions must have road access both to the subdivision
and to the individual building sites no lower than two feet below the
regulatory flood protection elevation, unless a flood warning emergency plan
for the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the regional 1%
chance) flood has been approved by the city. The plan must be prepared by a
registered engineer or other qualified individual, and must demonstrate that
adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation.
         (c)   For all subdivisions in the Floodplain, the Floodway and Flood
Fringe District boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the
required elevation of all access roads must be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
         (d)   [Reserved for General Floodplain District (GF)].
         (e)   Subdivision proposals must be reviewed to assure that:
            1.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage within the floodprone area.
            2.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
            3.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood
hazard.
   (I)   Utilities, Railroads, Roads, and Bridges.
      (1)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain must
be floodproofed in accordance with the State Building Code or elevated to the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (2)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and
bridges to be located within the floodplain must comply with divisions (E) and
(F) of this section. These transportation facilities must be elevated to the
regulatory flood protection elevation where failure or interruption of these
facilities would result in danger to the public health or safety or where such
facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or
auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where
failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety.
      (3)   On-site water supply and sewage treatment systems. Where public
utilities are not provided:
         (a)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and are subject to the
provisions in Minnesota Rules 4725.4350, as amended.
         (b)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into floodwaters, they must not be subject to
impairment or contamination during times of flooding, and are subject to the
provisions in Minnesota Rules 7080.2270, as amended.
   (J)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks
are subject to applicable standards for each floodplain district. In addition:
         (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes must be elevated in
compliance with division (F) above of this section and must be securely
anchored to a system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top
or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         (b)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing
manufactured home parks must meet the appropriate standards for subdivisions in
division (H) of this section. New or replacement manufactured homes in existing
manufactured home parks must meet the vehicular access requirements for
subdivisions in division (H)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles. New recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds and expansions to existing recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are prohibited in any floodplain district. Recreational vehicles
placed in existing recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds or lots of record in
the floodplain must either:
         (a)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in division (J)(1)
above, or
         (b)   Be travel ready, meeting the following criteria:
            1.   The vehicle must have a current license required for highway
use.
            2.   The vehicle must be highway ready, meaning on wheels or the
internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks.
            3.   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle.
   (K)   Accessory structures may be permitted in the Flood Fringe District,
provided that they constitute a minimal investment, do not hinder the removal
of the vehicle should flooding occur, and meet the standards outlined in
divisions (D)(2) and (H) of this section.
      (1)   Administration.
         (a)   Duties. The City Administrator or other official designated by
the City Council, must administer and enforce this section.
      (2)   Permit application requirements.
         (a)   Application for permit. Permit applications must be submitted to
the City Administrator on forms provided by the City Administrator. The permit
application must include the following as applicable:
            1.   A site plan showing all pertinent dimensions, existing or
proposed buildings, structures, and significant natural features having an
influence on the permit.
            2.   Location of fill or storage of materials in relation to the
stream channel.
            3.   Copies of any required municipal, county, state or federal
permits or approvals.
            4.   Other relevant information requested by the City Administrator
as necessary to properly evaluate the permit application.
         (b)   Certification. The applicant is required to submit certification
by a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this section. Floodproofing measures must be
certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect as
being in compliance with applicable floodproofing standards in the State
Building Code. Accessory structures designed in accordance with (F)(2)(b) of
this section are exempt from certification, provided sufficient assurances are
documented. Any development in established floodways must not cause any
increase in flood elevations or damages, as certified by a registered
professional engineer.
         (c)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or
nonconforming use. No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in
any manner until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the City
Administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this section.
         (d)   Recordkeeping of certifications and as-built documentation. The
City Administrator must maintain records in perpetuity documenting.
            1.   All certifications referenced in division (K)(1)(b)(ii) above
as applicable.
            2.   Elevations complying with division (F)(2)(a) of this section.
The City Administrator must also maintain a record of the elevation to which
structures and alterations to structures are constructed or floodproofed.
         (e)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing
any alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the City Administrator must
notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to work
in public waters pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, this will suffice as adequate
notice. A copy of the notification must also be submitted to the Regional
Office of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
         (f)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease
base flood elevations. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six months
after the date such supporting information becomes available, the City
Administrator must notify the Regional Office of FEMA of the changes by
submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific data.
      (3)   Variances.
         (a)   Variance applications. An application for a variance to the
provisions of this section will be processed and reviewed in accordance with
applicable state statutes and §
152.010 of this chapter.
         (b)   Adherence to state floodplain management standards. A variance
must not allow a use that is not allowed in that district, permit a lower
degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood protection elevation for
the particular area, or permit standards lower than those required by state
law.
         (c)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional variance
criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
            1.   Variances must not be issued by a community within any
designated regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result.
            2.   Variances may only be issued by a community upon the
following:
               A.   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
               B.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant.
               C.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
            3.   Variances may only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (d)   Flood insurance notice. The City Administrator must notify the
applicant for a variance that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage.
            2.   Such construction below the base or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property. Such notification must be maintained with
a record of all variance actions.
         (e)   General considerations. The community may consider the following
factors in granting variances and imposing conditions on variances and
conditional uses in floodplains.
            1.   The potential danger to life and property due to increased
flood heights or velocities caused by encroachments.
            2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
            3.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems. if any, and
the ability of these systems to minimize the potential for disease,
contamination and unsanitary conditions.
            4.   The susceptibility of any proposed use and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
            5.   The importance of the services to be provided by the proposed
use to the community.
            6.   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location.
            7.   The availability of viable alternative locations for the
proposed use that are not subject to flooding.
            8.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
            9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive land
use plan and flood plain management program for the area.
            10.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
            11.   The expected heights. velocity. duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
         (f)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR). The City Administrator must submit hearing notices for
proposed variances to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at least ten
days’ notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S.
mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
         (g)   Submittal of final decisions to the DNR. A copy of all decisions
granting variances must be forwarded to the DNR within ten days of such action.
The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. mail to the respective DNR
area hydrologist.
         (h)   Recordkeeping. The City Administrator must maintain a record of
all variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and must
report such variances in an annual or biennial report to the Administrator of
the National Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      (4)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Administrative review. An application for a conditional use
permit under the provisions of this section will be processed and reviewed in
accordance with §
152.012 of this chapter.
         (b)   Factors used in decision-making. In passing upon conditional use
applications, the City Council must consider all relevant factors specified in
other subsections of this section, and those factors identified in division (K)
(3)(e) above.
         (c)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. In addition to
the standards identified in divisions (E)(4) and (F)(4) of this section, the
City Council may attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use
permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this section. Such
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
            2.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
            3.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective measures.
         (d)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR). The City Administrator must submit hearing notices for
proposed conditional uses to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at
least ten days’ notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic
mail or U.S. mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
         (e)   Submittal of final decisions to the DNR. A copy of all decisions
granting conditional uses must be forwarded to the DNR within ten days of such
action. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.
   (L)   Nonconformities.
      (1)   Continuance of nonconformities. A use, structure, or occupancy of
land which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this section but which
is not in conformity with the provisions of this section may be continued
subject to the following conditions. Historic structures, as defined in §
152.005 of this chapter, are subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   A nonconforming use, structure, or occupancy must not be
expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a way that increases its flood
damage potential or degree of obstruction to flood flows except as provided in
divisions (L)(1)(b) below. Expansion or enlargement of uses, structures or
occupancies within the Floodway District is prohibited.
         (b)   Any addition or structural alteration to a nonconforming
structure or nonconforming use that would result in increasing its flood damage
potential must be protected to the regulatory flood protection elevation in
accordance with any of the elevation on fill or floodproofing techniques (i.e.,
FP1 thru FP4 floodproofing classifications) allowable in the State Building
Code, except as further restricted in divisions (L)(1)(d) below.
         (c)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming
structure, is discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the
premises must conform to this section, as described in §
152.050 of this chapter.
         (d)   If any structure experiences a substantial improvement as
defined in this section, then the entire structure must meet the standards of
divisions (E) and (F) of this section for new structures, depending upon
whether the structure is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District,
respectively. If the current proposal, including maintenance and repair during
the previous 365 days, plus the costs of any previous alterations and additions
since the first flood insurance rate map exceeds 50% of the market value of any
nonconforming structure, the entire structure must meet the standards of
divisions (E) and (F) of this section of this section.
         (e)   If any nonconformity is substantially damaged, as defined in
this section, it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this section. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses
or new structures in divisions (E) and (F) of this section will apply depending
upon whether the use or structure is in the floodway or flood fringe,
respectively.
         (f)   If any nonconforming use or structure experiences a repetitive
loss, as defined in §
152.005 of this chapter, it must not be reconstructed except in conformity with
the provisions of this section.
   (M)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Violation constitutes a misdemeanor. Violation of the provisions of
this section or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances or conditional uses) constitute a misdemeanor and will be
punishable as defined by law.
      (2)   Other lawful action. Nothing in this section restricts the city
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the City
Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day that
lapses will constitute an additional violation of this section and will be
prosecuted accordingly.
      (3)   Enforcement. Violations of the provisions of this section will be
investigated and resolved in accordance with the provisions of §§
152.011 and
152.017 of this chapter. In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the
City Administrator and the Board of Appeals and Adjustments may utilize the
full array of enforcement actions available to it including but not limited to
prosecution and fines, injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for
corrective measures or a request to the National Flood Insurance Program for
denial of flood insurance availability to the guilty party. The city must act
in good faith to enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance
violations to the extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in
the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (N)   Amendments.
      (1)   Floodplain designation – restrictions on removal. The floodplain
designation on the official zoning map must not be removed from floodplain
areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or that the area
has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special exceptions
to this rule may be permitted by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) if
it is determined that, through other measures, lands are adequately protected
for the intended use.
      (2)   Amendments require DNR approval. All amendments to this section
must be submitted to and approved by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR)
prior to adoption.
      (3)   Map revisions require ordinance amendments. The floodplain district
regulations must be amended to incorporate any revisions by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps adopted in division (B)(2)
of this section.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
§ 152.098 (PUD) PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to provide for the
modification of certain regulations under a flexible regulatory process as
compared to the more rigid development regulations common to traditional zoning
districts when it can be demonstrated that such modification would result in a
high quality development that would preserve or create features or facilities
of benefit to the community, such as, but not limited to open space, or active
recreational facilities or preserving natural resources, which features or
facilities would not have been provided if no regulations were modified. These
features or facilities would be compatible with surrounding development, and
would conform to the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan. Throughout
this section, PUD shall mean the same as “Planned Unit Development.”
   (B)   Benefit to the public intended. PUDs are intended to encourage the
efficient use of land and resources, to promote greater efficiency in public
utility serves and encourage innovation in the planning and building of all
types of development. Planned unit developments shall demonstrate at least one
benefit to the public, including but not limited to the following. The
applicant bears the burden of demonstrating that one or more public benefits
exist.
      (1)   Innovations in residential development that:
         (a)   Proactively and tangibly address the demand for housing for all
economic levels.
         (b)   Provide greater variety in tenure, type, design, and siting of
dwellings.
         (c)   Provide for the creation of affordable housing units through an
efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of utilities and streets,
thereby lowering housing costs and public investments, except that tangible
plans to maintain dwelling unit affordability provided one or more additional
public benefits are found to exist.
      (2)   The reestablishment, preservation and/or enhancement of desirable
site characteristics such as natural topographic and geologic features.
      (3)   A variety of housing types/densities together with preservation of
open space/natural features within one development.
      (4)   The creation of active and/or passive recreational opportunities
and/or facilities that would not have been provided if no regulations were
modified.
      (5)   A more desirable environment than would be possible through the
application of zoning and subdivision regulations of the city.
   (C)   Types of planned unit developments and where permitted.
      (1)   Two types of planned unit developments are hereby established
subject to the use regulations of the zone in which the PUD is proposed to be
located and provided the standards of division (C)(2) below are achieved.
         (a)   Single-family PUDs, comprised of detached dwelling units on
individual lots, necessary street right-of-way to serve such dwelling units and
any common open space, recreational facilities or other areas or facilities.
         (b)   Non single-family PUDs, comprised of attached dwelling units,
detached dwelling units not on individual lots, commercial, retail, office,
service, public, quasi-public or industrial buildings, or any combination
thereof, the necessary streets and other public and/or private rights-of-way to
serve such uses, and any appurtenant common open space, recreational facilities
or other areas or facilities.
         (c)   A PUD may comprise both of the above types, subject to
compliance with the use regulations of the zoning district in which the PUD is
proposed to be located.
      (2)    Planned unit developments may be located in any zoning district
subject to use regulations, provided that:
         (a)   The use(s) permitted in the PUD shall be governed by the use
regulations of the underlying zoning classification or other generally
applicable city regulations governing permitted uses, permitted accessory uses,
conditional uses and interim uses, including overlay and special district
regulations;
         (b)   The design of a PUD shall take into account the relationship of
the site to the surrounding areas. The perimeter of the PUD shall be so
designed as to minimize undesirable impact of the PUD on adjacent properties
and, conversely, to minimize undesirable impact of adjacent land use and
development characteristics on the PUD.
         (c)   Common open space shall be either held in common ownership by
all owners of that specific use in the PUD or dedicated for public use with
approval of the City Council. Whenever possible, common open space shall be
linked to the open space areas of adjoining developments. Common open space
shall be of such size, shape, character, and locations as to be useable for its
proposed purpose.
   (D)   General requirements and permitted modifications.
      (1)   In general. In considering a proposed PUD project, the approval
thereof may involve modifications in the regulations, requirements and
standards of the zoning district in which the project is located, and in
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances. In modifying such regulations,
requirements and standards as they may apply to a PUD project, the standard
identified within this division (D)(1) and the limitations set forth in
divisions (D)(2) and (3) shall apply. In order to be granted any such
modifications, the applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed development
complies with the purpose of this chapter. The applicant shall bear the burden
of supporting any change in requirements. The city may increase any
requirements necessary to make the project conform to the purposes of this
chapter.
         (a)   Front yard setbacks. The requirements for minimum front yard
setbacks for the zoning district in which the planned unit development is
located shall apply to all exterior boundary lines of the site, except if the
proposed use in the PUD adjacent to the exterior property line of the site, is
substantially the same use as the existing uses adjacent to the exterior
boundary line of the site of the planned unit development.
         (b)   Distance between buildings. The minimum distance between
structures shall be ten feet.
         (c)   Building height. Building height shall be governed by the
requirements of the underlying zoning district classification as set forth
therein.
         (d)   All permitted, permitted accessory, conditional and interim uses
contained in the underlying zoning district shall be treated as permitted,
permitted accessory, conditional, interim and administrative uses in the PUD
Overlay District. Uses not listed as permitted, permitted accessory,
conditional, interim or administrative in a specific district shall not be
allowed in a PUD unless it is found that the use is complementary to the
functionality of the development and the other uses found therein.
         (e)   An increase in density may be permitted to encourage the
preservation of natural resources, topography and geological features. Excluded
from the calculation shall be areas which would normally not be developable
such as waterways or water bodies, wetlands, shorelands, floodplains, steep
slopes, hydric soils and the like in addition to areas required for streets,
parks, pedestrian facilities, storm water controls and placement of public
utilities.
         (f)   Off-street parking and loading space shall be provided in each
PUD in the same ratios for types of building and uses as required in the
underlying zoning district. However, the city may reduce the number of parking
spaces required provided PUD applicants submit information demonstrating a
reduced need for parking facilities (e.g., senior housing complex, PUDs
featuring joint parking facilities, parking study, proximity to and
availability of bus service coupled with transit-friendly design, and the
like).
         (g)   The streets connecting with any PUD must be of sufficient size
and character to accommodate the traffic to be produced by the project. The
streets connecting with any PUD shall not significantly alter the character of
existing residential neighborhoods. Evaluation of the proposal pursuant to this
section shall include consideration of the following criteria:
            1.   The increase in traffic which will be generated by the
development.
            2.   The present width and condition of streets to be affected.
            3.   Presence or absence of improved sidewalks and trails.
            4.   Potential impacts upon the value of surrounding properties.
            5.   Anticipated effect upon availability of parking.
            6.   Existence of a particular conflict between vehicular and
pedestrian traffic.
            7.   The street type designated in the comprehensive plan.
         (h)   The city may reduce paved right-of-way width requirements
outlined in
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances for streets contained within the
PUD providing:
            1.   A demonstrated benefit to the public exists that would not
exist if not for the reduction of street width.
            2.   The City Engineer and city’s emergency service providers
(fire, ambulance, and police) review the PUD to determine adequacy of proposed
street widths. The city may require total right-of-way widths (including non-
paved) to adhere to standards contained within
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   Non single-family PUDs. Non-single-family PUDs shall be subject to
the following limitations in modification of regulations in addition to those
limitations set forth within the underlying zoning district:
         (a)   When a PUD containing dwelling units is proposed on property
having more than one underlying residential district, zone the total number of
dwelling units allowed may be determined by totaling the number of dwelling
units allowed to be located on each portion of the PUD area located in a
separate zone according to the regulations of that zone.
         (b)   The city, at its discretion, may allow the number of units
arrived at under division (D)(3)(a) above to be located anywhere within the PUD
subject to the PUD approval process set forth in this section and provided the
city makes a finding of fact that a public benefit resulting from such action
is present.
   (E)   Subdivision requirements. The approval of a preliminary and final plat
shall be required of all projects which involve or contemplate the subdivision
of land and the procedures set forth in
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances shall be followed concurrently
herewith. The approved final development plan shall be a binding site plan. A
lease of land not involving a residential structure shall be exempt from
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances, if the lease conforms to the final
development plan.
   (F)   Pre-application informational meeting and concept plan required.
      (1)   Informal meeting. Prior to filing an application for preliminary
PUD plan approval, the applicant of the proposed PUD shall arrange for and
attend an informational meeting with city staff. At such conference, the
applicant shall be prepared to generally describe the applicant’s proposal for
a PUD. The primary purpose of the meeting shall be to provide the applicant
with an opportunity to gather information and obtain guidance as to the general
suitability of the conformity to the provisions of this chapter before
incurring substantial expense in the preparation of detailed plans, surveys,
and other data.
      (2)   Following a pre-application/informational meeting but prior to
submitting an application for preliminary plan approval, the applicant for a
proposed PUD shall submit to the city a general concept plan for review by city
staff and/or the Planning Commission and City Council.
         (a)   Purpose. The general concept plan provides an opportunity for
the applicant to submit a plan to the city showing the applicant’s basic intent
and the general nature of the entire development without incurring substantial
cost. This concept plan serves as the basis for the informational meeting so
that the proposal may be considered at an early stage. The following elements
of the proposed general concept plan represent the immediate significant
elements which the city shall review and for which a decision shall be
rendered:
            1.   Overall maximum PUD density range.
            2.   General location of major streets and pedestrian walkways.
            3.   General location and extent of public and/or common open
space.
            4.   General location of residential and non-residential land uses
with approximate intensities of development.
            5.   Staging and timetable of development.
         6.   Other special criteria for development.
   (G)   Preliminary and final PUD plan approval required.
      (1)   Each PUD shall require preliminary and final plan approval
according to the following process:
         (a)   Preliminary PUD plan review.
            1.   Process.
               A.   The applicant for a PUD shall apply for a preliminary plan
review. The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council
to approve or deny the preliminary plan and the City Council shall take final
action on the application. City Council approval of the preliminary plan
indicates that the applicant can proceed to final plan review. The application
for preliminary plan review shall be accompanied by supporting information as
listed in this section or as deemed necessary by the city to fully explain the
property, the applicant and the proposed development. The application may
include further information, as the applicant deems appropriate for the
preliminary plan review for the proposed PUD. The city may require additional
information depending on the complexity of the proposal.
               B.   The timeframe for the city action begins at the point of
submittal of a complete application for the preliminary PUD plan review. An
approved preliminary PUD plan shall expire within one year, if a final plan has
not been filed and approved, unless an extension is granted by the City
Council.
         (b)   Final PUD plan review.
            1.   Process. The applicant shall have secured final plan review
approval by the City Council within one year following the date of approval of
the preliminary PUD plan review. If application for final plan review is not
received within one year, the preliminary plan review will be considered
abandoned and a new application for preliminary plan review must be submitted.
The City Council shall make a final determination on approval of the final PUD
plan review.
         (c)   Fees. The required application fee shall accompany applications
for concept plan, preliminary PUD plan and final PUD plan. The applicant shall
pay fees as set forth by the City Council.
         (d)   Public hearing notices. All preliminary PUD plan applications
shall require a public hearing and shall be noticed and processed as follows:
            1.   After the filing of a preliminary PUD plan application, the
city shall set a date for a public hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be
posted and published at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. Notice
of proposed preliminary PUD plan shall be mailed to each property owner within
350 feet of the proposed PUD boundary. Upon hearing the request, the Planning
Commission shall recommend approval, denial or conditional approval of the
preliminary PUD plan and shall state the reasons for its action. The City
Council shall consider the recommendation by the Planning Commission shall
approve, deny or modify the request for the preliminary PUD plan.
         (e)   Developer’s agreements. A developer’s agreement may be executed,
at the discretion of the city, reflecting all terms and conditions of the
approved PUD plans and financial requirements.
      (2)   If land subdivision is requested in conjunction with the PUD plan,
both preliminary and final PUD plan approvals shall be processed concurrently
with the platting procedures set forth in
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances. Required data, parkland/fee-in-
lieu of parkland dedication, design standards and required improvements shall
be the same as per a conventional subdivision and as set forth within
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances. In addition to the data
requirements itemized within
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances the application shall also include
information necessary to process the PUD preliminary and final plan(s) as
contained within this section. The city may waive requirements determined to be
redundant.
      (3)   The preliminary plan and the final plan may be combined and
together processed through review as a final PUD plan. In addition, the
applicant may need to file concurrent rezoning, preliminary plat, or final plat
applications in accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter or
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances.
   (H)   Phased development. Development of the project may be phased, in which
case each complete phase may be processed separately through both preliminary
development plan review and final PUD plan review. A map showing all property
owned or controlled by the developer which is contiguous to the development
site or which is within the area determined by the city to be relevant for
comprehensive planning and environmental assessment purposes, together with a
conceptual plan of the property’s eventual development through all potential
phases shall be submitted with the application for the first phase. The
developer is not responsible for providing a conceptual plan for contiguous or
nearby property which is not owned or controlled by the developer. The
conceptual plan shall conform to the purposes of this chapter and shall be used
by the city to review all phases of the development. All phases of the
development shall conform to the conceptual plan, all conditions of approval,
and applicable regulations.
   (I)   Preliminary PUD plan contents of complete application.
      (1)   The applicant shall file with the city a preliminary PUD plan
(seven large scale copies and fifteen 11 by 17 copies), which includes the
following:
         (a)   A legal description of the property proposed to be developed.
         (b)   A map of the subject property and surrounding area determined by
the city to be relevant for comprehensive planning, environmental assessment or
zoning review purposes, which shall depict comprehensive plan designations,
zoning classifications and existing land uses and utility mains/urban
facilities including parks and streets.
         (c)   A proposed site plan for the subject property depicting the
following:
            1.   Topography at two-foot contours.
            2.   Individual trees over eight inches in trunk diameter measured
four feet above the base of the trunk in areas to be developed or otherwise
disturbed.
            3.   Designated placement, location, and principal dimensions of
lots, buildings, streets, parking areas, recreation areas and other open space,
landscaping areas and utilities.
            4.   If the developer owns or otherwise controls property adjacent
to the proposed development, a conceptual plan for such property demonstrating
that it can be developed in a compatible manner with the proposed development.
         (d)   A conceptual landscape plan showing existing and proposed
landscaping including groundcover, shrubbery and tree species.
         (e)   Drawing and/or text showing scale, bulk and architectural
character of proposed structures.
         (f)   For single-family PUDs, a conceptual drawing depicting the
number and location of lots which would be allowed if no regulations were
modified.
         (g)   Special features including but not limited to critical areas and
sites or structures of historic significance.
         (h)   Text describing conditions or features which cannot be
adequately displayed on maps or drawings.
         (i)   A narrative stating how the proposed development complies with
the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan.
         (j)   A narrative stating how the proposed plan impacts adjacent
property owners.
         (k)   A narrative describing the public benefit of the proposed PUD.
         (l)   A narrative describing proposed operation/maintenance of the
development including open areas, stormwater features and recreational
facilities resulting from the subdivision.
         (m)   If applicable, draft conditions, covenants and restrictions and
other documents relating to operation and maintenance of the development,
including all of its open areas and recreational facilities.
         (n)   Information normally required within the underlying zoning
classification relating to site plan review.
         (o)   Other information required by the city.
   (J)   Preliminary PUD plan criteria for approval.
      (1)   Preliminary PUD approval shall be granted by the city only if the
applicant demonstrates that:
         (a)   The proposed project shall not be detrimental to present and
potential surrounding land use.
         (b)   Land surrounding the proposed development can be planned in
coordination with the proposed development and can be developed so as to be
mutually compatible.
         (c)   Streets and sidewalks, existing and proposed, are suitable and
adequate to carry anticipated traffic within the proposed project and in the
vicinity of the proposed project, in light of the criteria set forth in
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances and the comprehensive plan.
         (d)   Services including potable water, sanitary sewer and storm
drainage are available or can be provided by the development prior to
occupancy.
         (e)   Each phase of the proposed development, as it is planned to be
completed, contains the required parking spaces, recreation spaces, landscape
and utility areas necessary for creating and sustaining a desirable and stable
environment.
         (f)   The project conforms with the purposes and standards prescribed
in this chapter.
         (g)   The project conforms to the comprehensive plan.
      (2)   Conformance with the design standards and required improvements as
set forth within
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances.
   (K)   Preliminary PUD plan minor and major changes to an approved
preliminary PUD.
      (1)   A proposed minor change to an approved preliminary PUD shall be
incorporated into the application for final PUD approval, and any notification
regarding such final PUD approval shall describe the proposed minor change(s).
A MINOR CHANGE means any departure from the conditions of preliminary approval
which is not a “major change” and includes but is not limited to the following:
         (a)   Reductions to the number of dwelling units in a structure.
         (b)   Reductions to the number of residential dwelling units.
         (c)   Reductions to the number of nonresidential structures.
         (d)   Revisions to heights of structures.
         (e)   Revisions to location of internal roads.
         (f)   Revisions similar in nature to those above as determined by the
city.
      (2)   A proposed major change to an approved preliminary PUD shall
require reapplication for preliminary PUD approval and a public hearing and any
notification regarding such preliminary PUD approval shall describe the
proposed major change or changes. A MAJOR CHANGE is any departure from the
conditions of preliminary PUD approval which would result in any of the
following:
         (a)   Revisions to the approved design concept.
         (b)   Revisions to the approved use(s).
         (c)   An increase in the number of residential dwelling units.
         (d)   An increase in square footage of nonresidential structures.
         (e)   A decrease in the amount of landscaping, site perimeter
buffering, and open space.
         (f)   An increase in traffic volumes or change in circulation patterns
which impacts surrounding development.
   (L)   Final PUD plan contents of complete application.
      (1)   Within 12 months following the approval of the preliminary PUD, the
applicant shall file the final PUD conforming to the approved preliminary PUD.
The final PUD shall include the following:
         (a)   A survey of the property, showing for all areas to be developed
or disturbed, existing features, including topography at two-foot contours,
buildings, structures, trees over eight inches in trunk diameter measured four
feet above the base of the trunk, streets, utility easements, rights-of-way,
and existing land uses.
         (b)   Elevation and perspective drawings of project structures and
improvements.
         (c)   Proposed final association documents, declarations of covenants,
conditions and restrictions and other documents relating to operation and
maintenance of the development, including all of its open areas and
recreational facilities, which documents shall be recorded upon final PUD
approval.
         (d)   Proposed final agreements which may have been required as
conditions of preliminary PUD approval.
         (e)   A development schedule.
         (f)   The following plans and diagrams:
            1.   An off-street parking plan.
            2.   A circulation diagram indicating the proposed movement of
vehicles and pedestrians within the planned unit development, and to and from
existing and programmed thoroughfares; any special engineering features and
traffic regulating devices needed to facilitate or ensure the safety of this
circulation pattern must be shown.
            3.   Landscaping and tree planting plan, including site grading.
            4.   A topographic map or model of the site and surrounding
vicinity.
      (2)   In the event that development standards were submitted and approved
as part of the preliminary PUD plan, development standards shall be made
binding upon all future owners of the property in a manner acceptable to the
city and may be submitted in lieu of elevation and perspective drawings of
project improvements.
   (M)   Final PUD plan criteria for approval. Final PUD approval shall be
granted by the city only if the applicant demonstrates that the final PUD
substantially conforms to the approved preliminary PUD. For the purposes of
this section, SUBSTANTIALLY CONFORMS means that, as compared to the preliminary
PUD, the final PUD contains no revisions in density, uses, design, or
development standards or in the site plan, other than the minor changes
pursuant to division (K) above.
   (N)   Final PUD plan extension of time for filing. For good cause shown, the
city, at its discretion, may grant an extension of time of one year for filing
the final PUD and required accompanying papers, and may grant additional one
year extensions, provided however, the city shall have the right to reexamine
and update any conditions made to mitigate development impact.
   (O)   Final PUD plan failure to file and termination.
      (1)   In the event the final PUD or any required application and
materials are not filed within 12 months following approval of a preliminary
PUD, except as provided elsewhere in this chapter or as noted in division (O)
(2) below, the approval of the preliminary PUD shall lapse and the approval
shall be deemed null and void and without force or effect.
      (2)   When it is determined as part of the preliminary PUD approval that
the final PUD is to be phased, the final PUD for the first phase shall be
submitted within 12 months of preliminary approval. The final development plan
for each subsequent phase shall be submitted within the schedule established at
the time of preliminary PUD approval. In the case of a PUD which includes a
subdivision, the final PUD shall be submitted within two years of receiving
preliminary approval.
      (3)   The time period for filing of a final PUD shall not include periods
of time during which progress on the final PUD was reasonably halted or delayed
due to the filing and pendency of legal actions challenging an approval granted
by the city pursuant to this chapter; provided, that in all cases when more
than two years have elapsed subsequent to the date of approval of a preliminary
PUD the applicant shall be required to comply with all current building,
construction, subdivision and other applicable standards of the city prior to
being granted approval of the final PUD; provided, that a change in zoning
district classification enacted subsequent to approval of the final development
plan shall not affect the project.
   (P)   Final PUD plan adjustments to approved final PUD.
      (1)   City staff is authorized to allow adjustments in accordance with
division (P)(2) below. City staff shall allow only such adjustments as are
consistent with guidelines established in division (P)(2), and in no case shall
an adjustment be allowed if it will increase the total amount of floor space
authorized in the approved final PUD, or the number of dwelling units or
density, or decrease the amount of parking or loading facilities or permit
buildings to locate substantially closer to any boundary line or change
substantially any point of ingress or egress to the site.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, ADJUSTMENTS means any departure
from the conditions of final PUD approval which complies with the following
criteria:
         (a)   The adjustment maintains the design intent and quality of the
original approval.
         (b)   The amount of landscaping, buffering and open space shall not be
reduced.
         (c)   The number of dwelling units in residential developments and the
square footage of structures shall not increase.
         (d)   The adjustment shall not relocate a building, street or other
use more than 20 feet in any direction and shall not reduce any required yard
and/or setback.
         (e)   The height of buildings and other structures shall not increase.
         (f)   Views from both structures on-site and off-site shall not be
substantially reduced.
         (g)   Traffic volumes shall not increase and circulation patterns
shall not change.
         (h)   Changes in colors, plant material and parking lot configurations
are minor.
         (i)   The adjustment does not add significant new environmental
impacts or significantly increase environmental impacts disclosed in the
original documents.
         (j)   City staff determines that the change will not increase any
adverse impacts or undesirable effects of the project, or that the change in no
way significantly alters the project.
   (Q)   Letter of credit required for final PUD plan. No final PUD shall be
implemented until the applicant files with the city a letter of credit approved
by the city, executed by a surety company authorized to do business in the
state, or other equivalent security approved by the City Attorney, in an amount
equal to 125% of the estimated cost of all public improvements, utilities and
landscaping, conditioned upon the applicant’s completion of such portions of
the project according to the submitted final PUD and the provisions of this
chapter, and, in addition, providing that no change, extension of time,
alteration or addition to the project will in any way affect the obligation on
the letter of credit. Such letter of credit shall also be conditioned upon full
restoration of the site in the event that grading, clearing or any other site
preparation or work is begun and abandoned, and in the determination of the
city, it will better serve the public health, welfare and safety to restore the
site rather than to require completion of public improvements, utilities and
landscaping. If the PUD is also being subdivided, the letter of credit required
to be posted by the subdivision of property as per
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances, to the extent that it satisfies
the requirements of this section, shall be accepted as full or partial
fulfillment of the requirements hereof.
   (R)   Operating and maintenance requirements for PUD common open space and
service facilities.
      (1)   Whenever common open space or service facilities are provided
within the PUD, the PUD plan shall contain provisions to assure the continued
operation and maintenance of such open space and service facilities to a
predetermined reasonable standard.
      (2)   Common open space and service facilities within a PUD shall be
placed under the ownership of one or more of the following:
         (a)   Landlord control where only use by tenants is anticipated.
         (b)   Property owners’ association, provided all of the following
conditions are met:
            1.   Prior to the use, occupancy, sale or the execution of
contracts for sale of an individual building unit, lots, parcel, tract,
townhouse, apartment, or area, a declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions or an equivalent document as specified in Minnesota Statutes shall
be filed with the city prior to the filings of the documents with the County
Recorder’s Office.
            2.   The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions or
equivalent document shall specify that deeds, leases or documents of conveyance
affecting buildings, units, lots, parcels, tracts, townhouses or apartments
shall subject the properties to the terms of the declaration.
            3.   The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions
shall provide that an owners’ association or corporation may be formed and if
such an association or corporation is formed, property owners must be members
of the association or corporation which shall maintain all properties and
common areas in good repair and which shall assess individual property owners’
proportionate shares of joint or common costs. This declaration may be subject
to the review and approval of the City Attorney. The intent of this requirement
is to protect the property values of the individual owner through establishing
effective private control.
            4.   The declaration shall additionally provide that in the event
the association or corporation fails to maintain properties in accordance with
the applicable rules and regulations of the city, or fails to pay taxes or
assessments on properties as they become due, and in the event the city incurs
any expenses not immediately reimbursed by the association or corporation, then
the city shall have the right to assess each property its pro rata share of the
expenses. Such assessments, together with interest thereon and costs of
collection, shall be a lien on each property against which such assessment is
made.
            5.   Membership in the association must be mandatory for each owner
within that neighborhood in the PUD, as determined with the approval of the
final PUD, and any successive buyer and the association must be responsible for
liability insurance, taxes, and the maintenance of the open space facilities to
be deeded to it.
            6.   The open space restrictions must be permanent and not for a
given period of years.
            7.   Property owners must pay their pro rata share of the cost of
the association by means of an assessment to be levied by the association which
meets the requirements for becoming a lien on the property in accordance with
state law and the association must be able to adjust the assessment to meet
changing needs.
            8.   The by-laws and rules of the association and all covenants and
restrictions to be recorded must be approved by the City Council prior to the
approval of the final PUD plan.
      (3)   Staging of common open space. The construction and provision of all
of the common open space and public improvements and recreational facilities
that are shown on the final development plan for a PUD must proceed at the same
rate as the construction of dwelling units or other private facilities.
   (S)   Building permits and certificates of occupancy. The city shall issue
building permits for buildings and structures which conform with the approved
final PUD and with all other applicable city ordinances and regulations. The
city shall issue a certificate of occupancy for completed buildings or
structures which conform to the requirements of the approved final PUD and all
other applicable city ordinances and regulations. The construction and
development of all the open spaces and public and recreational facilities of
each project phase must be completed or bonded before any certificate of
occupancy will be issued.
   (T)   Extension of time for construction. For good cause shown, the city, at
its discretion, may grant one extension of time for commencement or
continuation of construction subsequent to approval of the final PUD.
   (U)   Termination of PUD and failure to commence or continue construction.
      (1)   If construction has not been started within two years from the date
of approval of a final PUD with an associated subdivision, or two years from
the date of approval of any other final PUD, or if construction has been
commenced but the work has been abandoned for a period of one year or more, and
if no extension of time has been granted as provided in herein, the
authorization granted for the PUD project shall terminate and all permits and
approvals issued pursuant to such authorization shall expire and be null and
void.
      (2)   The time period of commencing or continuing construction shall not
include periods of time during which commencement of construction or
continuation of construction was reasonably halted or reasonably delayed due to
the filing of pendency of legal action challenging an approval granted by the
city pursuant to this chapter; however, in all cases, when more than two years
have elapsed subsequent to the date of approval of a final PUD with associated
subdivision, or more than two years have elapsed subsequent to the date of
approval of any other final PUD the applicant shall be required to comply with
all current building, construction, subdivision and other applicable standards
of the city; provided, that a change in zoning district classification enacted
subsequent to approval of the final development plan shall not affect the
project.
   (V)   Sale of lots. Lots in a platted PUD may be sold to separate owners
according to the separate lots as shown in the plat filed and approved in
connection therewith. No sale shall be permitted which subdivides a lot in such
a manner as to create a new lot line except as provided in
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances.
   (W)   Lots subject to final PUD plan. All lots or other divisions of a
subdivided PUD shall remain subject to compliance with the final development
plan regardless of the fact of subdivision in compliance with
Chapter 151 of the Mayer Code of Ordinances or lot(s) and division(s) of a
subdivided PUD were subsequently conveyed.
(Ord. 251, passed 2-23-26)
CHAPTER 153: EXCAVATION
Section
   
153.01   Excavation permit required
   
153.02   Exceptions
   
153.03   Application requirements
   
153.04   Minimum requirements
   
153.05   Additional requirements
   
153.06   Inspections
   
153.07   Revocation
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Noise, see §§ 93.50 through
93.57
§ 153.01 EXCAVATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move, remove, store, place, or excavate
rock, sand, dirt, gravel, clay or other like material (hereinafter EXCAVATION
or EXCAVATE) within the city unless such person, firm or corporation shall
first have obtained an excavation permit authorizing the same and complied with
all of the terms of this code.
(Ord. 102-N, passed 11-14-05) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Excavation for the purpose of a foundation, cellar or basement of some
immediately pending superstructure to be erected, built or placed thereon
contemporaneously with, or immediately following such excavation, removal or
storage, provided a building permit has been issued for the building to be
constructed in connection with the excavation:
   (B)   Excavations required by the state, county or city authorities in
connection with the construction or maintenance of roads and highways within
their respective right-of-ways;
   (C)   Excavation consistent with a final plat and grading plan which has
been approved by the city and for which a development agreement has been
executed and financial sureties provided;
   (D)   Excavation by the owner of land for landscaping purposes within the
contiguous boundaries of such owned premises, provided that the amount of
material moved is less than 20 cubic yards;
   (E)   Repair of landscaping, driveways or parking lots.
(Ord. 102-N, passed 11-14-05; Am. Ord. 146, passed 6-23-08)
§ 153.03 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Original permit. The applicant’s original excavation permit shall be
issued only after a public hearing by the Planning Commission, and approval by
the Council. Such hearing shall be held only after mailed and published notice
consistent with the requirements of the city’s Zoning Ordinance, section 102.
The original permit shall expire 90 days from the date of issuance. A permit
may be renewed by the Council without public hearing for an additional 90 day
period.
   (B)   Information required. All applicants for excavation permits shall
provide the following information:
      (1)   A correct legal description of the tract, giving complete
descriptive data by bearings and distances, made and certified to by a licensed
land surveyor. The corners of the tract shall also be located on the ground
marked by substantial monuments of such size and type as approved by the City
Engineer, and be referred and tied to the nearest quarter section corner and
shall be shown. Descriptions, reference ties and elevations of all benchmarks
shall also be included.
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and of the
owner of the land.
      (3)   The names and addresses of all adjacent land owners within a one-
half mile radius of the proposed excavation.
      (4)   Copies of any portions of agreements or leases, which grant to the
applicant the right to use the land for excavation.
      (5)   The purpose of the excavation and, if material removed is to be
sold, the proposed site for such sale.
      (6)   The estimated length of time removal operations will be ongoing.
      (7)   The highways, streets or other public ways within the city, upon
and along which the material removed shall be transported and the maximum
number of truckloads per day which will be transported along those routes, and
the proposed method of street cleaning.
      (8)   The plan of operation, including soil processing, nature of the
processing and equipment, the area, depth and grade of such processing, the
estimated quantity of earthly deposits to be added to or removed from the
premises, location of the plant, source of water, disposal of water, and re-use
of water. In the event that water is used in the operation of a pit then
approval from the State of Minnesota, Department of Natural Resources, or other
appropriate state or federal agencies, if necessary, shall be obtained as to
the type, location and depth of said well and water use.
      (9)   The development plan of the property where the excavation is to
occur. This plan shall contain site analysis information, such as trees, depth
of topsoil, soil type, adjacent and on-site buildings and land uses, a map or
plat of the proposed pit or excavation, showing the confines or limits thereof,
together with the proposed finished elevations, based on sea level readings.
Elevation and percent slope within 100 feet beyond the perimeter of the
excavation and such other information necessary to analyze the site shall be
provided by the applicant.
      (10)   The applicant shall submit a comprehensive restoration and land
use plan, showing suitable provision for restoration of the excavated area to a
useable condition compatible with the adjacent land and that it will not become
a health or safety hazard or a nuisance. Such plan should include anticipated
final elevations, slopes and a plan for the return of subsoil and topsoil.
Where the Council deems it practical and necessary, such plan shall include
adjoining related areas where excavations have previously been made and remain
under the control of the owner of the land on which the excavating is to be
done or under the control of the person, other than the owner to whom the
permit is to be issued.
   (C)   Fees; insurance; bond. With each application, the applicant shall
submit the following:
      (1)   The annual fee for the license shall be $200, plus an escrow
deposit in an amount determined by the city to defray expenses incurred by the
city in reviewing and processing the application and administering the permit,
including, without limitation, engineering, legal and consulting fees.
      (2)   (a)   A letter of credit acceptable to and in an amount deemed
sufficient by the Council and conditioned such that the permittee will:
            1.   Successfully perform all conditions of this chapter and any
permits issued hereunder;
            2.   Restore the land in conformity with the plan submitted and
approved; and
            3.   Pay for any damage which may occur to adjacent public roads by
reason of the excavating activity being done under permit.
         (b)   The letter of credit shall forfeit to the city in full if
compliance with the foregoing is not completed within 30 days of demand by the
city for such completion or compliance.
      (3)   The permittee shall provide proof of public liability insurance
assuring against bodily injury and property damage and indemnifying and holding
the city harmless for any such causes of action and costs and expenses,
including attorneys’ fees, incurred therein. This insurance shall be in the
following amounts for public liability, personal injury and property damage:
 
Injury or death of one person                                  $1,000,000
Injury or death to more than one person in a single occurrence $1,000,000
Property damage                                                $300,000
 
(Ord. 102-N, passed 11-14-05) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In cases in which the following minimum requirements cannot be met, no
permit shall be issued. For all permits issued, the following are minimum
requirements for the operation of excavation under this chapter and are deemed
to be a condition of the permit:
   (A)   The slopes or any edge contiguous to the excavation shall not be less
than a four feet horizontal to one foot vertical slope, or as otherwise
approved by the operation plan.
   (B)   All trees, stumps and debris must be disposed of within 30 days by
removal or burning, if allowed; or within ten days after notification by the
city, whichever is less.
   (C)   The depth of removal of materials in areas programmed for future
public utilities and services in no instance shall be greater than 25 feet
below the present center line grade of the road servicing the area, or as
determined by the City Engineer. No excavation shall be allowed below grade
closer than 100 feet to the right-of-way line of any existing street, road or
highway, except that excavating may be conducted within such limits in order to
reduce the elevation thereof, in conformity to the existing proposed street
grades.
   (D)   The operator shall be responsible for the lowering of any well so as
to provide potable water for each individual whose well is affected by
excavation operations. Further, the operation of the pit shall not affect the
safety or quality of any well water within one quarter mile of the excavation.
Proof that the hydraulic or static effect is not determined detrimental to any
such well shall be provided by the permittee or applicant upon demand by the
city.
   (E)   All rocks which are not crashed and which are one foot or larger in
diameter shall be removed from the site or other approved method of disposal
after termination of excavation operations. If crushing of rocks is proposed, a
crashing plan shall be submitted to the city for its review and approval.
   (F)   Any storm or surface water cast into the excavation shall be the
responsibility of the permittee. No drainage of such water shall be made by the
permittee in such a way as to cause erosion or damage to any adjoining
properties.
   (G)   The operator shall maintain and operate all equipment in such a manner
as to minimize air pollution. Any emission which can cause any damage to
health, animals or vegetation or other forms of property, or which can cause
any excessive soiling at any point, or any emission of any solid or liquid
particles in concentration, exceeding the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
Air Quality Regulations, are hereby prohibited.
   (H)   Upon termination of the operation of any excavation, the excavation
site shall be regraded or modified according to the plans submitted with the
application.
   (I)   All excavated materials shall be removed from the premises only upon
and along such highways, streets or other public ways as the Council shall
authorize and direct.
   (J)   No noise resulting from the excavation shall exceed the regulations of
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s Noise Control Regulations or the
city’s noise ordinance, whichever is more restrictive.
   (K)   Any vibration resulting in any combination of amplitude and
frequencies beyond the safe range of the most current standards of the United
States Bureau of Mines for any structure is hereby prohibited.
   (L)   The slope of banks of the excavation shall be kept in such a condition
so as not to be dangerous because of overhangs, slidings or cave-ins. Upon
notice by the city to the permittee, the permittee shall correct any such
dangerous condition immediately. In all events, all excavating shall comply
with OSHA and other applicable state and federal standards.
   (M)   The removal of natural vegetation shall be restricted to prevent
erosion into water bodies, to conserve nutrients in the soil, and to preserve
shoreland aesthetics to the maximum degree possible. Removal shall be
restricted within a strip paralleling a lakeshore, river or stream and shall
extend inland a minimum distance of 100 feet from the normal high water mark,
as determined by the point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominately aquatic to predominately terrestrial.
   (N)   Land alteration shall in no way adversely affect adjacent private or
public properties, and may not obstruct the free flow of water in a natural
waterway or public street drain, storm sewer, gutter or ditch.
   (O)   No blasting shall be allowed.
   (P) The hours of operation of any excavation shall be limited to 7:00 a.m.
to 7:00 p.m. daily. No excavation, crushing or processing or tracking shall be
conducted on Sundays or legal holidays, with the exception of Columbus Day and
Veteran’s Day.
   (Q)   The Council may, in its discretion, waive or modify the provisions of
this section upon a showing that the requested modification will not undermine
the purposes set forth in this chapter and shall not jeopardize the public
health, welfare and safety or the environment.
(Ord. 102-N, passed 11-14-05) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The Council may impose additional conditions on the permit and the operation
of any excavation site if it deems it necessary for the protection of the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city. These may include, but
are not necessarily limited to, the following:
   (A)   That the permittee properly fence any excavation site, or portion of
any excavation site, which may be a hazard or create a danger to the public.
   (B)   That the applicant or owner submit a landscape screening plan and
provide such screening consisting of natural shrubbery or other device as the
Council deems appropriate.
   (C)   On completion of the operation, the applicant shall properly drain and
level any excavation and restore the contour of the site to a condition as
indicated on the plan submitted and approved by the Council.
   (D)   The permittee shall remove any extracted material abandoned upon or
along the highways, streets or other public ways in the city, as the City
Engineer shall direct and order.
   (E)   The permittee shall submit to the Council, a detailed map of the
highways, streets, roads and other public ways within the city upon and along
which the material removed shall be transported. The City Engineer shall
inspect such roads proposed to be used by the permittee and shall recommend to
the Council necessary upgrading or repairing of such roads prior to their use
as routes for the hauling of material excavated. The Council may designate city
roads and incorporate the recommendations of the Engineer into the permit
issued. The permittee shall be responsible for any damage to those roads caused
by its operations.
   (F)   The permittee shall submit in writing to the Council, the estimated
quantity of material to be removed, the anticipated route over which trucks
will travel, the beginning and completion of time for operation, and the area
of the pit which will be used for excavation during that 12-month period. It is
understood that while the information may not be able to be submitted with
certainty, the permittee must make his or her best estimate of the removal
operation. If the quantity of material to be removed is for any reason likely
to significantly exceed the original estimated amount, the permittee shall
notify the city of such change in estimated quantity as soon as such
information is available to it.
   (G)   In the event that a development plan is submitted which anticipates a
lake about which lots will be platted, the lake must be planned for at least a
15-foot depth. Any development plan indicating a lake development shall provide
a means for level control or computations which proves that the lake can
contain drainage directly to it by free board storage utilizing a 100-year
storm.
   (H)   Within a period of three months after the termination of operation of
any excavation, or within three months after abandonment of such operation or
within three months after expiration of a permit hereunder, the permittee, or
owner of the premises shall dismantle all buildings and structures incidental
to the excavation permit.
(Ord. 102-N, passed 11-14-05) Penalty, see §
153.99
153.06 INSPECTIONS.
   The city may elect to inspect each excavation site at times determined
appropriate by it. By applying for a permit under this chapter, the permittee
has agreed to permit and cooperate in such inspections. The permittee and/or
owners of any premises in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter
or its permit shall remedy such violations within the time specified by written
notice from the city.
(Ord. 102-N, passed 11-14-05) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 REVOCATION.
   Excavation permits may be revoked upon violation of any conditions of the
permit provided herein or established by the Council. The revocation shall be
effective immediately upon written notice of the same by the Council to the
permittee. Upon written demand the permittee may have a hearing before the
Council at its next available meeting.
(Ord. 102-N, passed 11-14-05)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter and the permits issued hereunder is a misdemeanor.
Every day of violation is a separate violation. In addition to the criminal
penalty provided herein, the city reserves to itself the right to seek
appropriate injunctive or other equitable relief in the case of violation.
(Ord. 102-N, passed 11-14-05)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Extending city's corporate limits; annexing the east half
65       4-8-85      of the northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 116 North,
                     Range 26 West
68       9-14-87     Annexing part of the northeast quarter of Section 1,
                     Township 116, Range 26
75       6-12-89     Annexing part of the southwest quarter of Section 31,
                     Township 117, Range 25
106      6-9-03      Annexing part of the south half of the southwest quarter
                     of Section 31, Township 117, Range 25
108      11-10-03    Annexing the north 10 acres of the west half of the
                     southwest quarter of Section 6, Township 116, Range 25
                     Annexing Lots 5 and 6, Block 3, Navaho Heights, and that
109      2-23-04     part of 6th Street SE (formerly known as Colfax Avenue)
                     and the alley adjoining and adjacent to Lots 5 and 6,
                     Block 3
110      9-13-04     Annexing part of the southwest quarter of Section 31,
                     Township 117, Range 25
                     Annexing part of the northwest quarter of Section 6,
                     Township 116, Range 25, lying westerly and northerly of
120      10-24-05    the southeasterly right-of-way line of State Highway No.
                     25 and part of the northwest quarter of Section 6,
                     Township 116 North, Range 25 West, lying easterly of the
                     southeasterly line of State Highway No. 25
                     Annexing part of the northeast and northwest quarters of
126      2-27-06     Section 6, Township 116, Range 25, and part of the
                     northeast and northwest quarters of Section 5, Township
                     116, Range 25
131      11-27-06    Annexing part of the west half of the northeast quarter of
                     Section 6, Township 116, Range 25
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
69       12-14-87    Granting an electricity distribution franchise to Northern
                     States Power Company
70       2-8-88      Granting a nonexclusive gas energy distribution franchise
                     to Minnegasco, Inc.
72       6-24-88     Granting a 15-year cable communications franchise to AHT
                     Incorporated
122      11-14-05    Granting a renewed cable system franchise to North
                     American Communications Corp.
140      9-24-07     Granting a 20-year franchise for furnishing of electric
                     energy to Northern States Power Company
152      11-24-08    Granting a nonexclusive gas energy franchise to
                     Centerpoint Energy Resources Corp.
224      10-8-18     Granting a 15-year cable system franchise to Jaguar
                     Communications
                    
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
102- 7-28-  Rezoning the property located in the southwest quarter, being the north corner
D    03     or Section 6, Township 116, Range 25 from (A) Agricultural to (C-1) General
            Commerce
102- 6-14-  Rezoning the property located in the south half of the southwest quarter of
F    04     Section 31, Township 117, Range 25 from (A) Agricultural to (PRD) Planned
            Residential Development
            Rezoning the property located in the east half of the northwest quarter of
102- 6-28-  Section 1, Township 116 North of Range 26 West from (R-1) Low-Density
H    04     Residential and (R-3) (Multiple-Family Residential) to (PRD) Planned Residential
            Development
102- 2-28-  Rezoning the property known as Lot 4, Block 2 of Ohm’s Addition from (R-1) Low-
L    05     Density Residential to (R-2) Medium- Density Residential
102- 7-25-  Zoning the property known as Lot 1, Block 1, and Outlot A, Hidden Creek West (R-
M    05     1) Low-Density Residential
102- 2-13-  Rezoning the following property from (A) Agricultural to (C-1) General
P    06     Commercial:
          Part of the northwest quarter of Section 6, Township 116 North, Range 25 West;
          Part of the northwest quarter of Section 6, Township 116 North, Range 25 West,
            except railroad right-of-way and the platted portion thereof;
          Part of the northwest quarter of Section 6, Township 116 North, Range 25 West,
            lying west of State Highway No. 25
          Rezoning the property known as Outlot A, Outlot B, Outlot M, and Outlot N,
            Fieldstone, from (A) Agricultural to (P/I) Public/Institutional
            Rezoning the property known as lying northeasterly, easterly and northerly of
          the easterly right-of-way line of Fieldstone Parkway and other described
            property from (A) Agricultural to (PRD) Planned Residential Development
            Rezoning the northwest quarter of Section 32, Township 117, Range 25, lying
          southerly on the south right-of-way line of Minnesota State Highway No. 7 from
            Carver County (A) Agricultural to City of Mayer (A) Agricultural
156  6-8-09 Rezoning Lot 1, Block 2, Sell Commercial Industrial Park from (C-1) General
            Commercial District to (P/I) Public/ Institutional District
            Rezoning the following parcels: 104, 108, 112, 116, 308, 312, 316, 320, 408,
     10-13- 412, 416, and 420 Bluejay Avenue; 117 1st St. NW; 120 2nd St. NW; 121 3rd St.
194  14     NW; and 121 4th St. NW from Central Business (C-2) to Medium Density Residential
            (R-2). Rezoning 212 1st St. NE from Central Business (C-2) to Low Density
            Residential (R-1)
203  10-12- Rezoning Outlot F, Hidden Creek 5th Addition from Low-Density Residential (R-1)
     15     to Planned Residential Development (PRD)
211  9-12-  Rezoning Lot 1, Block 2, Sell Commercial Industrial Park from Public/
     16     Institutional (P/I) to Commercial Industrial (C/I)
     2-13-  Rezoning Lots 1 through 10, Block 1, Lots 1 through 13, Block 2, and Lots 1
214  17     through 5, Block 3, Coldwater Crossing 7th Addition from Low-Density Residential
            (R-1) to Planned Residential Development (PRD)
            Rezoning the following property from Planned Residential Development District
            (PRD) to Low-Density Residential District (R-1):
               Hidden Creek 6th Addition: Lots 1-17, Block 1; Lots 1-8, Block 2; Lots 1-5,
            Block 3; Outlots A, B, C & D
               Hidden Creek 7th Addition: Lots 1-17, Block 1; Lots 1-21, Block 2; Outlots A,
            B & C
               Coldwater Crossing 7th Addition: Lots 1-10, Block 1; Lots 1-13, Block 2; Lots
            1-5, Block 3, Outlots A & B
               Fieldstone: Lots 1-6, Block 1; Lots 1-7, Block 2; Lots 1-7, Block 3; Lots 1-
            10, Block 4; Lots 1-14, Block 5; Lots 1-6, Block 6; Lots 1-9, Block 7, Outlots
            C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, O, P & Q
               Fieldstone 2nd Addition: Lots 1-3, Block 1; Lots 1-6, Block 2; Lots 1-6,
            Block 3; Lots 1-4, Block 4; Lots 1-6, Block 5, Outlots A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H,
            I, J & K
               PID #500311110, 500311100, and 500320300
            Rezoning the following property from Planned Residential Development District
            (PUD) to Medium Density Residential District (R-2):
               Sunset Meadows:
               Lots 1-2, Block 1
               Lots 1-2, Block 2
     4-24-     Lots 1-2, Block 3
216  17        Lots 1-2, Block 4
               Lots 1-2, Block 5
               Lots 1-2, Block 6
               Lots 1-2, Block 7
               Lots 1-2, Block 8
               Lots 1-2, Block 9
               Lots 1-2, Block 10
               Lots 1-2, Block 11
               Lots 1-2, Block 12
               Lots 1-2, Block 13
               Lots 1-2, Block 14
               Lots 1-2, Block 15
               Lots 1-2, Block 16
               Lots 1-2, Block 17
               Lots 1-2, Block 18
               Lots 1-2, Block 19
               Lots 1-2, Block 20
               Lots 1-2, Block 21
               Lots 1-2, Block 22
               Lots 1-2, Block 23
               Lots 1-2, Block 24
               Outlots A, B, C & D
235  10-10- Rezoning the property at 400 Ash Avenue North from Public/Institutional (P/I) to
     22     Central Business (C-2)
236  1-23-  Rezoning the following parcels: 209 2nd Street NW; and XXX Bluejay Avenue from
     23     Low Density Residential (R-1) to Public/Institutional (P/I)
     6-24-  Rezoning the following properties: 305 Ash Avenue South; 301 Ash Avenue South;
244  24     and 221 Ash Avenue South from Commercial/Industrial (C/I) to Low Density
            Residential (R-1)
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to 1982 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section                  Code Section
12.25                         34.01,
                              34.05
12.31                         34.07
14.57 - 14.70                 111.25,
                              111.99
                              152.010 -
15.99                         152.012,
                              152.014,
                              152.015
16B.59 - 16B.75               150.01,
                              150.02
16B.62, subd. 1               150.03,
                              150.04
16B.70                        150.04
18.46(13)                     93.02
60A.07, subd. 4               111.14
60A.206                       111.14
65B.48, subd. 5               72.12
84.81 - 84.928                72.05
84.92, subd. 8                72.02
84.92, subd. 9                72.02
84.92, subd. 10               72.02
88.02 - 88.22                 93.03
88.75                         93.03
88.76                         93.03
93.44 - 93.51                 152.005
Ch. 103F                      152.097
103G.005, Subd. 14         152.097
103G.245                      152.097
Ch. 116                       152.033
116.06(8)                     93.03
116.07                        90.25
Ch. 116B                      151.030
120A.05                       115.01
120A.24                       115.01
144A.01                       152.005
152.0263                      130.04
152.0263, subd. 5             115.01
161.242                       90.16
168.021                       152.067
168.10                        90.16
Ch. 168B                      90.15
Ch. 169                       70.03,
                              72.01
169.01                        90.16
169.011                       152.005
169.041                       90.16,
                              90.18
169.68                        93.51
169.69                        70.04
169.693                       70.04
171.01                        70.03
171.02                        70.03
171.24                        70.03
211B.045                      152.071
237.162                       94.29
237.163                       94.29
243.166                       130.03
243.167                       4130.03
244.052                       130.03
245.462, subd. 23             115.01
245A.02                       152.005
272.67                        35.01
290.09                        152.005
290.13                        152.005
299F.72                       130.01
300.06                        94.23
Ch. 315                       152.005
Ch. 327                       152.005
                              111.01,
                              111.02,
Ch. 340A                      111.08,
                              111.11,
                              111.25,
                              111.99
340A.301, subd. 6(d) and 7(b) 111.10
240A.301, subd. 7             111.10
340A.404, subd. 1(b)          111.10
340A.404, subd. 4a            111.10
340A.404, subd. 4b            111.10
340A.404, subd. 5             111.10
340A.408                      111.11,
                              111.14
340A.408, subd. 2b            111.10
340A.408, subd. 3             111.10
340A.408, subd. 5             111.11
340A.413, subd. 3             111.08
340A.414                      111.24
340A.414, subd. 6             111.10
340A.504                      111.22
340A.504, subd. 3             111.10
340A.504, subd. 3c            111.10
340A.509                      111.02
340A.707                      111.07
340A.801                      111.14
Ch. 342                       115.01,
                              115.02
342.01                        115.01
342.01, subd. 50              115.01
342.11                        115.02
342.13                        115.02
342.13(c)                     115.01
342.17                        115.01
342.22                        115.01,
                              115.02
342.22, subd. 4(b)            115.02
342.22, subd. 5(e)            115.02
342.24                        115.02
342.39, subd. 2               115.04
342.40                        115.04
342.40, subd. 3               115.04
342.40, subd. 4               115.04
342.40, subd. 5               115.04
342.40, subd. 6               115.04
342.40, subd. 7               115.04
342.40, subd. 8               115.04
344.02,  subd.  1(a)-(d)      152.005
347.51, subd. 8               92.11
347.565                       92.11
                              112.10,
349.11 - 349.22               112.11,
                              112.14
349.213                       112.15
Ch. 412                       30.01
412.221(32)                   130.03
412.581                       32.01
415.11                        31.04
429.01                        93.01
429.101                       93.02,
                              93.21
429.101, subd. 1(C)           151.061
                              55.02,
444.075                       55.07,
                              56.02,
                              56.07
Ch. 462                       152.097
462.351 - 462.363             152.002
462.353                       152.017
462.353, subd. 4a             152.017
462.357                       115.01,
                              152.005
462.357, subd. 1e             115.03
462.357, subd. 6              152.010,
                              152.011
                              151.002,
462.358                       151.004,
                              151.030,
                              151.080
462.358, subd. 2b             151.084
462.359, subd. 4              152.010,
                              152.011
462.3593                      152.004
462.3593, subd. 9             152.004
463.15 - 463.26               93.01
463.17                        93.20
471.195                       90.01
473.858                       152.001
514.67                        93.01,
                              152.017
Ch. 515                       152.005
515.01 - 515.29               152.005
Ch. 515A                      152.005
515A.1-106                    152.089
                              152.005,
Ch. 515B                      152.087,
                              152.088
609.321                       114.16
609.322                       114.16
609.323                       114.16
609.324                       114.16
609.341, subd. 11(b)          114.22
609.342                       114.16
609.343                       114.16
609.344                       114.16
609.345                       114.16
609.365                       114.16
609.74                        93.15
617.23                        114.16
617.241                       114.16
617.241, subd. 1(a)           152.071
617.246                       114.16
617.247                       114.16
617.293                       114.16
617.294                       114.16
624.713                       130.01
                              
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rule Code Section
Minn. Rule              Code Section
Ch. 1300                150.03
Ch. 1340                152.096
4725.4350               152.097
6120.2500 - 6120.3900   152.096
6120.3300               152.096
6120.5000 - 6120.6200   152.096
Ch. 7030                152.066
7030.1000 - 7030.1050   70.04
Ch. 7035                90.15
7080.2270               152.097
Ch. 7819                94.21
7819.100                94.25
7819.0100 Subps. 1 - 23 94.21
7819.1000 Subp. 3       94.22
7819.1100               94.26,
                        94.29
7819.1250               94.38
7819.1300               94.30
7819.3000               94.26
7819.3100               94.35
7819.3200               94.37
7819.4000               94.34
7819.4100               94.34
7819.5000               94.35
7819.5100               94.35
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1982 CODE
1982 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1982 Code Section 2001 Code Section
2.111             30.01
2.112             32.01
2.113             32.01
2.121             30.02
2.211             31.15
2.212             31.16
2.213             31.17
2.214             31.18
2.215             31.19
2.221             32.03
2.222             32.03
2.242             33.15
2.243             33.16
2.244             33.17
2.245             33.18
2.246             33.19
2.311             31.01
2.312             31.02
2.313             31.03
2.323             31.04
2.411             33.10
2.421             33.15
2.441             33.40
2.442             33.41
2.443             33.41
2.444             33.41
2.445             33.41
2.446             33.41
2.447             33.41
2.448             33.41
2.449             33.41
2.450             33.41
2.451             33.42
2.452             33.42
2.454             33.42
2.455             33.41
2.456             33.43
2.457             33.43
2.458             33.43
2.459             33.43
2.481             33.60
2.491             33.01
3.111             51.01
3.112             51.02
3.113             51.03
3.114             51.04
3.115             51.05
3.116             51.05
3.121             51.06
3.122             51.06
3.123             51.06
3.151             51.40
3.153             51.41
3.154             51.42
3.156             51.43
3.161             51.44
3.162             51.44
3.163             51.44
3.164             51.44
3.168             51.44
3.170             51.44
3.211             52.01
3.212             52.02
3.213             52.03
3.214             52.04
3.215             52.05
3.216             52.06
3.221             52.07
3.222             52.07
3.223             52.07
3.224             52.07
3.225             52.07
3.226             52.07
3.231             52.09
3.232             52.09
3.233             52.09
3.311             53.01
3.312             53.02
3.313             53.02
3.314             53.02
3.315             53.02
3.316             53.02
3.317             53.03
3.318             53.04
3.319             53.05
3.331             53.06
3.332             53.06
3.351             53.07
3.352             53.07
3.353             53.07
3.354             53.07
3.355             53.07
3.356             53.07
3.357             53.07
3.358             53.07
3.371             53.08
3.372             53.08
3.373             53.08
3.374             53.08
3.375             53.08
3.376             53.08
3.381             53.09
3.382             53.09
4.211             94.01
4.212             94.01
4.213             94.01
5.111             70.01
5.112             70.02
5.121             71.07
5.122             71.08
5.123             71.09
6.111             130.02
6.112             130.02
6.113             130.02
7.111             110.01
7.112             110.02
7.113             110.03
7.114             110.03
7.115             110.04
7.116             110.04
7.117             110.05
7.118             110.06
7.119             110.06
7.120             110.06
7.121             110.06
7.122             110.06
7.123             110.06
7.124             110.06
7.125             110.06
7.126             110.06
7.127             110.07
7.128             110.07
8.211             50.01
8.212             50.02
8.213             50.03
8.214             50.04
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
60       7-8-82      91.01 -
                     91.07
62A      10-21-82    35.02 -
                     35.04
63       11-14-83    112.01
                     71.01 -
64       1-14-85     71.06,
                     71.10
81       7-12-93     113.01 -
                     113.10
84       1-10-94     93.03
86       6-13-94     53.02
90       11-10-97    53.02
91       5-11-98     30.01
                     31.02,
                     32.01 -
                     32.03,
                     51.42 -
                     51.44,
                     110.02,
94       12-13-99    110.03,
                     110.05,
                     110.06,
                     112.01,
                     113.03 -
                     113.05,
                     113.10
102-D    7-28-03     T.S.O. III
102-F    6-14-04     T.S.O. III
102-H    6-28-04     T.S.O. III
102-L    2-28-05     T.S.O. III
102-M    7-25-05     T.S.O. III
                     153.01 -
102-N    11-14-05    153.07,
                     153.99
102-P    2-13-06     T.S.O. III
104      3-18-02     112.10 -
                     112.15
105      12-9-02     54.01,
                     54.02
106      6-9-03      T.S.O. I
108      11-10-03    T.S.O. I
109      2-23-04     T.S.O. I
110      9-13-04     T.S.O. I
111      12-13-04    31.01
112      1-24-05     33.50 -
                     33.53
113      2-28-05     55.01 -
                     55.07
                     114.01 -
                     114.05,
                     114.15 -
114      2-28-05     114.24,
                     114.35 -
                     114.39,
                     114.99
115      3-24-05     91.05
                     93.50 -
                     93.52,
116      4-25-05     93.54 -
                     93.57,
                     93.99
117      5-23-05     36.01 -
                     36.04
118      9-12-05     32.01
119      9-12-05     56.01 -
                     56.07
120      10-24-05    T.S.O. I
                     151.001 - 151.014,
                     151.025 -
                     151.031,
                     151.045,
                     151.046,
                     151.060 -
                     151.068,
                     151.095 -
121      11-14-05    151.097,
                     151.099,
                     151.110,
                     151.111,
                     151.125 -
                     151.128,
                     151.140,
                     151.141,
                     151.999
122      11-14-05    T.S.O. II
123      11-14-05    51.44
126      2-27-06     T.S.O. I
127      12-17-05    36.01 -
                     36.04
128      4-24-06     92.07
129      8-14-06     93.18
130      8-14-06     90.01
131      11-27-06    T.S.O. I
132      12-11-06    36.01 -
                     36.04
133      3-12-07     52.08
135      7-9-07      92.02
136      6-25-07     92.05
137      7-23-07     35.01 -
                     35.09
                     150.01 -
138      8-13-07     150.05,
                     150.99
139      8-27-07     32.04
140      9-24-07     T.S.O. II
141      11-26-07    94.22
142      12-10-07    36.02
                     151.045,
144      5-12-08     151.046,
                     151.065 -
                     151.067   
                     151.067,
                     151.080 -
145      5-12-08     151.085,
                     151.096 -
                     151.098
146      6-23-08     153.02
                     95.01 -
147      8-11-08     95.04,
                     95.99
148      9-22-08     113.02,
                     113.07
151      11-10-08    73.01
152      11-24-08    T.S.O. II
153      12-8-08     36.02
156      6-8-09      T.S.O. III
160      9-14-09     50.05
162      1-11-10     36.02
164      5-24-10     33.51
166      5-28-10     113.04
168      7-26-10     90.20
                     72.01 -
169      9-27-10     72.03,
                     72.05 -
                     72.11
171      1-10-11     36.02
                     111.01 -
172      7-25-11     111.25,
                     111.99
174      10-24-11    150.06
175      11-28-11    92.02
176      1-9-12      36.02
177      5-23-12     111.03
179      5-14-12     93.03
180      5-29-12     52.10
189      12-9-13     51.44
190      1-13-14     36.01 -
                     36.04
191      2-24-14     92.30 -
                     92.37
194      10-13-14    T.S.O. III
195      1 27-14     92.11
197      1-12-15     93.51,
                     93.52
198      1-26-15     36.01 -
                     36.04
202      8-24-15     92.01,
                     92.18
203      10-12-15    T.S.O. III
210      9-12-16     130.03
211      9-12-16     T.S.O. III
213      1-9-17      36.01 -
                     36.04
214      2-13-17     T.S.O. III
216      4-24-17     T.S.O. III
217      1-8-18      36.01 -
                     36.04
219      4-23-18     92.02
220      4-23-18     114.40
224      10-8-18     T.S.O. II
229      1-13-20     36.01 -
                     36.04
                     92.01,
230A     4-8-19      92.02,
                     92.05,
                     92.10
                     72.01 -
                     72.03,
231      11-9-20     72.05,
                     72.06,
                     72.08 -
                     72.11
232      12-28-20    36.01 -
                     36.04
233      12-13-21    36.02
234      6-13-22     111.10
235      10-10-22    T.S.O. III
236      1-23-23     T.S.O. III
237      1-23-23     36.02
238      4-24-23     36.02
239      4-24-23     72.01 -
                     72.12
240      10-9-23     130.04
241      9-25-23     95.03
242      1-8-24      36.02
243      2-12-24     95.05
244      6-24-24     T.S.O. III
                     71.01,
245      9-23-24     71.02,
                     71.06
246      10-14-24    51.20 -
                     51.24
247      11-25-24    115.01 -
                     115.05
248      1-27-25     36.02
249      6-9-25      51.23
250      10-13-25    95.05
                     152.001 -
                     152.005,
                     152.010 -
                     152.017,
251      2-23-26     152.025 -
                     152.041,
                     152.050 -
                     152.071,
                     152.080 -
                     152.098
                    
 
