FORT LARAMIE, WYOMING
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord 337, passed 3-11-2026
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “The Code
of the Town of Fort Laramie, Wyoming” for which designation “code of
ordinances”, “codified ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted. Code title,
chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part of the law as
contained in the code.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of codes by reference, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-119
   Authority of the town to cause compilations, codifications, and
comprehensive revisions of ordinances, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-103
   Manner and form of enactment of codifications or general revisions of
ordinances, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-115
   Publication of recodification of ordinances, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-116
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this chapter compatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK/TREASURER. An appointed official responsible for managing both the
administrative records and financial operations of the town.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day unless the last day
is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which case the period shall run
until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Fort Laramie, Wyoming.
      COUNTY. Goshen County, Wyoming.
      DEPUTY CLERK. A government official who assists the Clerk/Treasurer in
performing administrative tasks, maintaining legal records, collecting monies
owed to the town and performing public services.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter.
      GOVERNING BODY. The council constituting the elected legislative body of
the town.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      IN THE TOWN or IN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE TOWN. Includes any
territory within the corporate limits of the town, the police jurisdiction
thereof, and any other territory over which regulatory power has been conferred
on the town by general or special act.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      MUNICIPAL COURT CLERK. A non-judicial official who manages the daily
administration, record handling, and procedural tasks for town court, which
handles local ordinance violations. They process citations, schedule hearings,
assist the judge with proceedings, and manage fines.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in
the plural include the singular.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words “swear”
and “sworn” are equivalent to the words “affirm” and affirmed”.
      OWNER. When applied to a building or land, shall include not only the
owner of the whole but also any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, or
joint tenant of the whole or a part of such building or land and shall include
any agent of such owner, and where such OWNER is a body corporate, it shall
include the managing agent or officer within the town.
      PERSON. Includes a firm, partnership, association of persons,
corporation, organization, or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an
individual.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real
property.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE. The Wyoming Rules of Civil Procedure.
      RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE. The Wyoming Rules of Criminal Procedure.
      SHALL and MAY. SHALL is mandatory and MAY is permissive.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of the pedestrians.
      STATE. The State of Wyoming.
      STATE LAW. References to STATE LAW and Wyoming Statues shall mean the
Wyoming Statutes.
      STREET. Includes public streets, avenues, highways, roads, alleys, lanes,
bridges, and the approaches thereto and all other public thoroughfares in the
town.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall mean any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Fort Laramie, Wyoming.
      TOWN COUNCIL. Consists of the elected or appointed Council persons and,
together with the Mayor, shall constitute the legislative body of the town.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions and rules of construction, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 8-1-102 and 8-1-103
   Definitions of “city or town” and “town”, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-101
   Legal holidays, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 8-4-101 and 8-4-104
   Related provisions regarding “person”, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-101
   Related provisions regarding “Town Council”, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-101
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that chapter,
subchapter, or section.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of: the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a reasonable
time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall
be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt performance of the
act or the giving of the notice.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   (1)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any
penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under the section, unless the
repealing section so expressly provides.
      (2)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
         (Wyo. Stat. § 12-2-201)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-2-201
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published and subsequently amended, the previous code
section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §      )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance, resolution, or regulation
promulgated by any officer or agency of the town under authority vested by law
or ordinance, any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, an offense,
or a misdemeanor, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation
of any such provision of this code or any such ordinance, resolution, or
regulation shall be punished by a fine of not more than $750; provided, that
the imposition of any such fine shall not bar institution of appropriate legal
actions or proceedings by the town to restrain, correct, or abate the
violations, nor shall the institution of such legal actions or proceedings be
deemed a bar to the imposition of such fine.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, each day any violation of this code or
any such ordinance, resolution, or regulation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any crime for which there is a plea of guilty, nolo
contendere, or verdict of guilty upon which a judgment of conviction may be
rendered and any other crime which is admitted by the defendant, whether or not
prosecuted.
      PECUNIARY DAMAGE. All damages which a victim could recover against the
defendant in a civil action arising out of the same facts or event, except
punitive damages and damages for pain, suffering, mental anguish, and loss of
consortium.
      RESTITUTION. Full or partial payment of pecuniary damages to a victim.
      VICTIM. A person who has suffered pecuniary damages as a result of a
defendant’s criminal activities.
   (D)   At the time of sentencing a defendant for any misdemeanor conviction,
if the court desires to require restitution, the court shall fix a reasonable
amount as restitution owed to each victim for pecuniary damages resulting from
the defendant’s criminal activity and shall include its determination as a
special finding in the judgment of conviction.
   (E)   The court may issue execution against the defendant for any assets
including wages which would be subject to attachment to satisfy the order.
   (F)   The court’s determination of the amount of restitution owed under this
section shall not be admissible as evidence in any civil action.
(Prior Code, § 1-8)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to enforce ordinances, resolutions, and regulations by
imposition of fines or imprisonment, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-103
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Passage of bylaws, ordinances, and resolutions
   
11.02   Town Seal
§ 11.01 PASSAGE OF BYLAWS, ORDINANCES, AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   All enactments of law by the Town Council intended for the guidance or
government of persons or property within the said town, or the officers of said
town, shall be by ordinance.
   (B)   Any proposed ordinance may be presented at any meeting of the Town
Council and shall be presented in writing, bear the signature of the Council
members proposing the same, and shall be read at length by the designated Clerk
at the meeting at which the same is introduced.
   (C)   No ordinance shall be finally passed and adopted by the Town Council
except at a regular meeting following the meeting at which the same is
introduced; provided however, that by a vote of any four of five members of the
Council, the provisions of this section may be suspended and an emergency
declared and an ordinance finally passed and adopted at the meeting at which it
is introduced, but in that event the proposed ordinance shall recite the
emergency which is the occasion for suspending the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Except in case of emergency as provided in division (C) above, every
ordinance shall be published by posting certified copies thereof in three
public places in the town for at least ten days before the same shall take
effect.
   (E)   All ordinances passed and adopted by the Town Council shall, within
ten days after the passage thereof, be signed by the Mayor and attested by the
designated Clerk and be recorded in a book kept for that purpose, and no
ordinance of the town shall be capable of being enforced until the same shall
have been recorded and signed as herein provided.
   (F)   On the passage of any bylaw, ordinance, or resolution, a roll call
shall be had and the “ayes” and “nays” shall be taken and entered in the
journal.
(Ord. 1, passed 5-19-1925)
§ 11.02 TOWN SEAL.
   (A)   The Town Seal shall consist of the impression of two concentric
circles; between the circles shall appear the words “Town of Fort Laramie,
Wyoming”, and within the inner circle, which shall be one and one-fourth inches
in diameter, shall appear the words “Corporate Seal”.
   (B)   The Town Seal shall at all times remain in the care, custody, and
control of the Town Clerk/Treasurer or the Clerk’s designee, who shall be
responsible therefor or for its misuse upon the Clerk’s official bond.
(Prior Code, § 1-9) (Ord. 5, passed 5-19-1925)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY AND APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
      
31.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
32.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY AND APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Officers designated
   
30.02   Appointive office; conditions
   
30.03   Duties and responsibilities
   
30.04   Salaries
   
30.05   Vacancies in office
Municipal Meetings
   
30.20   Open to public; attendance
   
30.21   Disruption of Council meetings
   
30.22   Executive sessions
   
30.23   Regular meeting times
   
30.24   Special meetings
   
30.25   Emergency meetings
   
30.26   Public records; meeting minutes
   
30.27   Quorum
   
30.28   Recess; adjourned meetings
   
30.29   Officer duties
   
30.30   Rules of practice
   
30.31   Reconsideration of questions
   
30.32   Procedure for taking vote
   
30.33   Suspension of rules
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 30.01 OFFICERS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The officers of the town shall be:
      (1)   The Mayor and four Council members, all of whom shall be elected;
and
      (2)   The Clerk/Treasurer, Attorney, Law Enforcement Officer, and
Municipal Judge, all of whom shall be appointed.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer, Attorney, Law Enforcement Officer, and Municipal
Judge shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Town Council and
may be removed by the Mayor. Appointments shall be made by the Mayor at the
first regular meeting of the governing body following election and
qualification.
   (C)   Heads of departments as specified by separate ordinances codified
herein shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Town Council and
may be removed by the Mayor.
   (D)   All other appointments, except the appointment of members of a board
or commission, and removals shall be made by the Mayor without the consent of
the Council, unless consent is required by separate statute.
   (E)   The Town Council may, by resolution, combine the offices of Clerk and
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-7) (Ord. 136, passed 7-12-1988)
§ 30.02 APPOINTIVE OFFICE; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The appointive officers specified in §
30.01(A), with the exception of the Attorney, shall be qualified electors and
residents of the town, and before their commission shall issue to them, they
shall take the oath of office as required for county officers.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer, Mayor and bank signatories shall post bonds for
the performance of their duties. Said bonds shall be from a surety company
licensed to do business in the state and shall be in an amount as determined by
the Town Council, payable to the town, and shall be filed with the Clerk/
Treasurer. The town shall pay the bond costs and any filing costs.
   (C)   The appointive officers of the town shall hold their office from the
date of their appointment and qualification until June 1 following a regular
municipal election, unless such officer is removed, resigns, or otherwise
becomes disqualified.
(Prior Code, § 2-7) (Ord. 136, passed 7-12-1988)
§ 30.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Council members shall attend all meetings of the governing body
and shall lend such aid and assistance in the direction and management of
government as may be necessary under the laws of the state and the ordinances
of the town.
      (2)   The members of the governing body may declare a vacancy to exist in
the office of the Council member if any Council member shall fail to attend
three consecutive regular meetings of the governing body.
   (B)   (1)   The duties of the Mayor shall be those as set forth in the
Wyoming Statutes.
      (2)   All other officers and employees of the town shall perform the
duties required of them by the administrative official, the laws of the state,
and the ordinances of the town as the same may pertain to them.
(Prior Code, § 2-7) (Ord. 136, passed 7-12-1988; Ord. 173, passed 6-4-1996)
§ 30.04 SALARIES.
   (A)   The compensation for the Mayor and each Council Member of the town is
hereby established and amended as follows:
      (1)   The Mayor shall receive $50 per month; and
      (2)   Each Council Member shall receive $25 per regular meeting actually
attended each month.
   (B)   Such compensation shall be paid monthly and shall commence upon the
start of each official’s new term of office following election or appointment,
or the after July 1, 2026, which ever comes first, notwithstanding any other
state statutory compensation restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 2-7) (Ord. 136, passed 7-12-1988; Ord. 269, passed 7-13-2016;
Ord. 270, passed 7-13-2016; Ord. 337, passed 3-11-2026)
§ 30.05 VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   (A)   A vacancy in an appointive office shall be filled in the manner
provided for the appointment of such officer.
   (B)   A vacancy of the office of Mayor or Council member shall be deemed to
exist when a majority of the Mayor and Council members determine that the
conditions specified in Wyoming Statutes and this section exist.
   (C)   A vacancy of any appointed office shall exist if the officer is
removed, resigns, moves from the town, or otherwise becomes disqualified for
such reasons as specified by the laws of the state or by ordinances of the
town.
   (D)   A vacancy in the office of Mayor shall be filled only from the Town
Council.
   (E)   (1)   Upon the declaration of the Town Council that a vacancy exists
or will exist in the office of a Council member, the Town Council shall then
publicly solicit applications from qualified electors to fill the vacancy.
      (2)   A vacancy in the office of a Council member shall be filled by the
Town Council by appointment of a temporary successor to serve until a successor
for the remainder of the unexpired term is elected at the next general
municipal election and is qualified and takes office.
(Prior Code, § 2-7) (Ord. 136, passed 7-12-1988; Ord. 173, passed 6-4-1996)
**** MUNICIPAL MEETINGS ****
§ 30.20 OPEN TO PUBLIC; ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   All meetings of the Town Council and all other boards, commissions,
and agencies of the town shall be open to the public at all times, except as
provided in §
30.22. No action of such a body shall be taken except during a public meeting.
   (B)   A member of the public shall not be required, as a condition of
attendance at any meeting, to register his or her name, to supply information,
to complete a questionnaire, or fulfill any other condition precedent to his or
her attendance, except that a person seeking recognition may be required to
give his or her name and affiliation.
(Prior Code, § 2-1) (Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. § 16-4-403
§ 30.21 DISRUPTION OF COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   If any Council meeting is willfully disrupted by a person or group of
persons so as to render the orderly conduct of the meeting unfeasible, and
order cannot be restored without the removal of the person or persons who are
willfully interrupting the meeting, the Town Council may order the removal of
the person or group from the meeting room and continue in session or may recess
the meeting and reconvene at another location.
(Prior Code, § 2-2) (Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. § 16-4-406
§ 30.22 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   Executive sessions of the Town Council and all other boards, commissions,
and agencies of the town may be held:
   (A)   With the Town Attorney, Chief of Police or their respective deputies,
or other officers of the law, on matters posing a threat to the security of
public or private property or a threat to the public’s right of access;
   (B)   To consider the appointment, employment, right to practice, or
dismissal of a public officer, professional person, or employee; or to hear
complaints or charges brought against an employee, professional person, or
officer; unless the employee, professional person, or officer request a public
hearing:
      (1)   The governing body may exclude from any public or private hearing
during the examination of a witness, any or all other witnesses in the matter
being investigated; and/or
      (2)   Following the hearing or executive session, the governing body may
deliberate on its decision in executive sessions.
   (C)   On matters concerning litigation to which the town is a party or
proposed litigation to which the town may be a party;
   (D)   When the agency is a licensing agency while preparing, administering,
or grading examinations;
   (E)   To consider the selection of a site or the purchase of real estate
when the publicity regarding the consideration would cause a likelihood of an
increase in price;
   (F)   To consider the acceptance of gifts, donations, and bequests which the
donor has requested in writing be kept confidential;
   (G)   To consider or receive any information classified as confidential by
law; and/or
   (H)   To consider accepting or tendering offers concerning wages, salaries,
benefits, and terms of employment during all such negotiations.
(Prior Code, § 2-3) (Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. § 16-4-405
§ 30.23 REGULAR MEETING TIMES.
   Regular public meetings of the Town Council shall be held on the second and
fourth Wednesdays of each month at 6:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 2-4) (Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988; Ord. 330, passed 8-14-2024)
§ 30.24 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Town Council may be called by the Mayor by giving
notice of the meeting to each member of the Town Council and to each newspaper
of general circulation, radio, or television station requesting the notice. The
notice shall specify the time and place of the special meeting and the business
to be transacted. No other business shall be considered at such meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-5) (Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Special meetings of governing body, see Wyo. Stat. § 16-4-404
§ 30.25 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   The Town Council may hold an emergency meeting on matters of serious and
immediate concern to take temporary action without notice. Reasonable effort
shall be made to offer a public notice. All action taken at an emergency
meeting is of a temporary nature and, in order to become permanent, shall be
reconsidered and acted upon at a regular or special meeting of the Town Council
within 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 2-6) (Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988)
§ 30.26 PUBLIC RECORDS; MEETING MINUTES.
   (A)   (1)   A journal of the proceedings of the Town Council shall be kept,
said journal being a public record.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the designated Clerk presiding over
meetings of the governing body to maintain an official journal of the minutes.
Within ten days following the adjournment of any regular or special meeting of
the Council, the designated Clerk shall post a copy of the meeting proceedings
in at least three public locations within the town, including the Town Office,
the United States Post Office, and the Senior Center. Such copy shall include
every bill presented to the Council, specifying the amount of the bill, and the
party by whom it is claimed. In addition, the Clerk’s shall be responsible for
the safekeeping of the journal and shall make it available for public
inspection upon request.
   (B)   (1)   All public records, recordings, and writings for the town shall
be open to the public for inspection under the control and guidance and
supervision of the keepers of the records.
      (2)   The keepers of the records shall include the Deputy Town Clerk, the
Clerk/Treasurer, Municipal Judge, and Chief of Police.
      (3)   Recorded minutes of Council meetings and court trials shall remain
in the Town Office building. Interviews and other police-related tapes,
reports, and the like shall be exempt from this division (B).
      (4)   Copies of documents shall be made upon request of any person at a
cost of $0.25 per page. Taped meetings may be listened to at the discretion of
the keepers of the records.
      (5)   The official custodian shall charge a reasonable fee, based on
their hourly rate, for services performed by the custodian or their deputy in
copying, printing, or reproducing records.
      (6)   At no time shall any original record, tape, recording, or report be
permitted to leave the Town Office building.
      (7)   Executive sessions are exempt from this division (B).
(Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988; Ord. 248, passed 1-9-2013)
§ 30.27 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the qualified members of the governing body constitutes a
quorum for the transaction of business, but any number may adjourn a meeting to
compel the attendance of and punish absent members.
(Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988)
§ 30.28 RECESS; ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council may recess any regular, special, or recessed regular
or special meeting to a place and at a time specified in an order of recess. A
copy of the order of recess shall be posted conspicuously on or near the door
of the place where the meeting or recessed meeting was held.
   (B)   Adjourned or recessed meetings of the Council may be held at such time
as the Council may determine.
(Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988)
§ 30.29 OFFICER DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Town Council provided that,
in the absence of the Mayor, such member of the Council appointed by the
Council as the Mayor Pro Tem shall preside.
(Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988)
§ 30.30 RULES OF PRACTICE.
   (A)   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in “Robert’s Rules of
Order” shall govern the Council in all cases in which they are applicable and
in which they are not inconsistent with the rules in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Town Council may appoint such committees to function in an
advisory capacity as it from time to time desires or as may be required by law.
(Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988)
§ 30.31 RECONSIDERATION OF QUESTIONS.
   (A)   A motion to reconsider shall be made and seconded by a member of the
Council who voted with the majority, provided that where a motion is lost by
not having received a required vote of greater than a majority, a motion to
reconsider may be made and seconded by those voting with the minority.
   (B)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting or at the first meeting held thereafter. No vote of the Council shall
be reconsidered at any meeting unless there is present as large a number of
members as were present when such vote was originally taken.
   (C)   A motion for reconsideration, being once made and decided in the
negative, shall not be reversed, nor shall a vote to reconsider be
reconsidered.
(Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988)
§ 30.32 PROCEDURE FOR TAKING VOTE.
   (A)   On all ordinances, resolutions, and appointment confirmations, a roll
call vote of the Council shall be taken. Said roll call shall rotate so one
Council member does not always vote first. On all other matters, the “ayes” and
“nays” shall be taken, and at the request of a Council member, a record of each
individual vote, together with the name of the Council member calling for a
division, shall be entered upon the journal which shall show how each Council
member voted. Any Council member can change his or her vote prior to the
announcement of the results of the vote.
   (B)   Each Council member who is present when a question is to be voted upon
shall vote thereon, unless excused by the Council or as provided in Wyo. Stat.
§ 15-1-127. Said Council member may, before the vote is called for, give his or
her reasons for not voting. If the Council member is directly interested in the
question, he or she need not vote.
(Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988)
§ 30.33 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall constitute rules governing the
proceedings of the Town Council and shall be strictly adhered to unless
temporarily suspended by a two-thirds vote of the members present at any
meeting. The motion shall state for what purpose the suspension is to be made,
and the suspension shall exist only until the purpose named in the motion is
accomplished.
   (B)   Suspension of rules for an emergency ordinance shall require a three-
fourths vote of the qualified members of the Town Council.
(Ord. 139, passed 9-13-1988)
CHAPTER 31: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
31.01   Appointments
   
31.02   Duties; jurisdiction; powers
   
31.03   Court procedure
   
31.04   Court costs
   
31.05   Witness fees
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Town Council, shall appoint a
Municipal Court Judge who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 9-1) (Ord. 9, passed 9-7-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of Municipal Court Judges, see Wyo. Stat. § 5-6-103
§ 31.02 DUTIES; JURISDICTION; POWERS.
   (A)   The duties of the Municipal Court Judge or alternate Municipal Court
Judge shall be to preside at all regular or special sessions of the Municipal
Court.
   (B)   The Municipal Court Judge shall have exclusive jurisdiction of, and
shall hear and determine all cases arising under, this code and other
ordinances of the town. The forms, practices, and procedures before such
Municipal Court Judge in such cases, unless otherwise provided in this code or
other town ordinances, shall conform as closely as possible to the forms,
practices, and procedures before justices of the peace of the state insofar as
such practices and procedures may be applicable.
   (C)   (1)   The Municipal Court Judge shall have the power to impose fines
of no more than $750 for any one offense, to which may be added costs. The
Municipal Court Judge shall have the authority to enforce due obedience to this
code and all other town ordinances, rules, and judgments.
      (2)   Any person convicted by the Municipal Court Judge of any offense
under any town ordinance may be punished by a fine not to exceed $750, or
follow the state bond schedule. The Municipal Court Judge may also impose
imprisonment or jail time not to exceed six months, or impose both.
(Prior Code, § 9-2) (Ord. 9, passed 9-7-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Punishment powers of a Municipal Court Judge, see Wyo. Stat. § 5-6-210
§ 31.03 COURT PROCEDURE.
   Procedures in the Municipal Court shall be as provided by the State Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
(Prior Code, § 9-4)
§ 31.04 COURT COSTS.
   (A)   Upon each conviction in the Municipal Court, the Municipal Court Clerk
shall levy and collect, in addition to any fine imposed, court costs as
established by statutes or rules of court, and the fine and costs so collected
shall be remitted to the Clerk/Treasurer and deposited in the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 9-5)
   (B)   All fines or forfeitures collected by the Municipal Court Clerk upon
conviction or upon forfeiture of bail of any person charged with any violation
or offense shall be paid to the Municipal Court and deposited in the Municipal
Court’s account. The Municipal Court Clerk shall issue a check or transfer
funds from the Municipal Court’s account to the Clerk/Treasurer monthly to be
deposited in the General Fund.
(Ord. 228, passed 8-3-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of fines, see Wyo. Stat. § 5-6-303
§ 31.05 WITNESS FEES.
   Witnesses appearing in the Municipal Court on behalf of the town shall be
entitled to such fees as are allowed to witnesses appearing in justice of the
peace courts of the state.
(Prior Code, § 9-6)
Statutory reference:
   Witness fees, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 1-14-102 and 1-14-103
CHAPTER 32: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Funds; revenue
   
32.03   Fire Chief/officer nominations
   
32.04   Member duties
   
32.05   Auxiliary/volunteer firefighters
   
32.06   Requirements for membership
   
32.07   Fire Chief duties
   
32.08   Authority
   
32.09   Reports and records; inventory
   
32.10   Equipment
   
32.11   Use of premises/apparatuses
   
32.12   False fire alarms
   
32.13   Obstructing fire escapes, exits, and the like
   32.14   Storing flammable/combustible materials
   
32.15   Fire hazards; dangerous conditions
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is created and established a Volunteer Fire Department that
shall prevent and extinguish fires, educate the public in all matters
pertaining to fires and fire prevention, care for all fire fighting apparatuses
and other municipal property in its charge, and perform such additional duties
as may be assigned to it by resolution or ordinance of the town.
   (B)   The Volunteer Fire Department shall be composed of nonpaid volunteers
and shall be governed by this chapter and the bylaws of the Fire Department as
developed by its members. Said bylaws shall be subject to acceptance and
approval of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 32.02 FUNDS; REVENUE.
   (A)   Monies for operating expenses and equipment acquisition may be
appropriated from the General Fund of the town annually through the town’s
budget process.
   (B)   The Volunteer Fire Department is authorized to raise funds and solicit
donations through social activities for the purpose of defraying expenses of
the Department, and only for Department purposes. Such funds shall be in the
care and custody of such officer or officers as specified by the bylaws of the
Department; and said officer or officers shall submit a financial statement
quarterly to the Mayor and Council.
   (C)   No member of the Department or any other person shall contract any
indebtedness on behalf of the town unless authorized to do so by the Mayor or
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 32.03 FIRE CHIEF/OFFICER NOMINATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be selected a nominee for the Fire Chief and nominees for
other such officers of the Department as set forth in the bylaws of the
Department by the members of the Department. Said selection of nominees rests
solely with the members of the Department. Nominees’ names shall be forwarded
to the Mayor for appointment by the Mayor and confirmation by the Town Council.
Upon the recommendation for removal by a two-thirds majority vote of the total
number of members of the Department, or as otherwise specified by law, the
Mayor may remove the Fire Chief or other officers from office.
   (B)   Selection of nominees for appointment shall occur at least annually
and, in any case, said list of nominees shall be forwarded to the Mayor prior
to June 1 in the year of nomination.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 32.04 MEMBER DUTIES.
   Duties of the officers and members shall be set forth in the bylaws of the
Department and shall be in addition to any duties specified in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 32.05 AUXILIARY/VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS.
   In addition to the Fire Chief and officers of the Fire Department, there
shall be auxiliary firefighters who may be referred to as volunteer
firefighters. There shall be such number of positions as are from time to time
authorized and approved by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 32.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Requirements for membership, selection of, and acceptance of members
of the Volunteer Fire Department shall be set forth in the bylaws of the
Department. However, no person under the age of 18 years shall be eligible for
membership.
   (B)   Each volunteer firefighter shall take a minimum number of hours of
regular training on such subjects and in such manner as may be prescribed by
the Fire Chief or the bylaws of the Department.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department, or such person as designated by the
bylaws of the Department, shall maintain in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer
an accurate list of the members of the Fire Department and shall report
promptly any additions or withdrawals from membership.
   (D)   All persons accepted as members of the Volunteer Fire Department shall
take an oath of office to obey, support, and uphold the bylaws of the
Department, the ordinances of the town, and laws of the state as pertain to the
position and duties of volunteer firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 32.07 FIRE CHIEF DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be responsible for the
discipline, good order, and proper conduct of the entire Department and for the
enforcement of all ordinances and regulations pertaining to it. The Chief shall
be responsible for the proper care of the fire houses, fire apparatuses, and
all other property of the Department or in its charge.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall have command and control over all officers and
members of the Department and all houses, fire apparatuses, and all other
property of the Department or in its charge, and he or she shall likewise have
command and control of all persons present at fires.
   (C)   The Chief shall inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
Department, at least twice annually, all fire hydrants in the town and
immediately report to the Mayor those needing attention.
   (D)   The Chief shall inspect or cause to be inspected by officers or
members of the Department, as often as necessary but not less than once each
year, all buildings, premises, and public thoroughfares (except the interiors
of private dwellings) for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be
corrected any conditions liable to cause fire, or any violation of the
provisions or intent of this code, or any ordinance of the town affecting
safety or fire prevention. However, no member of the Fire Department shall
enter on to private property without consent of the occupant or owner except in
an emergency situation, if an immediate safety hazard exists, or with proper
court order.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 32.08 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall have authority to order the immediate
discontinuance of any fire or safety hazard including but not limited to the
use of any stove, stovepipe, flue, furnace, electric wiring, or other device
which poses an imminent threat of fire.
   (B)   For the purpose of protecting persons or property, the Fire Chief or
other officer of the Department in charge of the extinguishment of any fire
shall have authority to order evacuation or abandonment of any building in
immediate danger from an imminent spreading of such fire.
   (C)   For the purpose of investigating the extent of any fire or the extent
of damage, danger, or need for evacuation, abandonment, or other action to be
taken for the protection of persons or property, the Fire Chief or other
officer in charge shall have the authority to enter any building, private
residence, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 32.09 REPORTS AND RECORDS; INVENTORY.
   (A)   The Chief shall make or cause to be made a thorough investigation and
report of each fire, giving the following information if available: cause,
location, time, date, owner, tenant, occupancy, type of building, building
loss, contents loss, how extinguished, apparatuses used, firefighters present,
adequacy of water supply and pressure, and any other information as required.
Said report shall, in addition to any other required or necessary filings, be
given to the Mayor and Town Council as its next meeting following such
incident.
   (B)   There shall be an annual inventory made by the Department of all
property or the Department or in its charge, noting the condition and
approximate value of each article. The inventory shall be submitted to the
Mayor annually by March 31.
   (C)   All recommendations for the purchase of new or additional apparatus
and equipment shall be submitted by March 31 of each year.
   (D)   Any other recommendations affecting the Fire Department shall be
submitted to the Mayor at least one week prior to any regular meeting of the
Town Council.
   (E)   There shall be kept and submitted regularly to the Town Council a
record of the activities of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 32.10 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All firefighters responding to an alarm of fire or other emergency
shall wear and use proper protective gear for the type of fire or emergency. In
no case shall any firefighter enter any burning structure without proper
protective gear.
   (B)   The insignia of the Fire Department shall be determined by a vote of
its members along with the use and wearing requirement thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 32.11 USE OF PREMISES/APPARATUSES.
   (A)   No person other than members of the Department and officials the town
shall enter or be allowed to enter the fire stations unless accompanied by a
member of the Department or authorized by a member of the Department to do so.
   (B)   No person except a member of the Department shall use any of the fire
apparatuses at fires or otherwise unless acting under orders of the Fire Chief
or officer in charge, nor shall any person interfere in any way with the
Department or any member of the Department in the performance of duty.
   (C)   Fire fighting apparatuses and other town property in the charge of the
Department shall not be loaned or rented except as may be authorized in a
mutual aid agreement or contract, and then only by authorization of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.12 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   No person shall knowingly give a false alarm of fire. Alarms for test
purposes shall be given or caused to be given only by the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.13 OBSTRUCTING FIRE ESCAPES, EXITS, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any fire escape, stair, passageway, door,
or window so as to interfere with the egress of occupants from a building in
the case of fire or with the operations of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.15 FIRE HAZARDS; DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to allow to exist any fire hazard or dangerous
condition as determined by the Fire Chief pursuant to applicable laws or
regulations.
   (B)   Upon determination that a fire hazard or dangerous condition exists,
the Fire Chief shall issue an order to abate and remedy such. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner of occupant to make such corrections as given in
the order within such time as given in the order.
   (C)   If the owner or occupant should fail or refuse to abate or remedy the
fire hazard or dangerous condition within the specified time, said owner or
occupant shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Every day the fire hazard or
dangerous condition is continued in existence beyond the date of compliance
given in the order shall constitute a separate and punishable offense.
   (D)   (1)   In such cases where the owner or occupant fails or refuses to
comply with the order to abate or remedy a fire hazard or dangerous condition,
then the Town Council may authorize said abatement or remedy to be completed.
      (2)   In such cases, in addition to any fines, the owner or occupant of
the property shall be charged an amount equal to 200% of such costs incurred to
the town to correct, abate, or remedy said fire hazard or dangerous condition.
(Prior Code, § 2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Adoption; town autonomy
   
33.02   Schedule; Mayor term
   
33.03   Poll times; locations
   
33.04   Designated Clerk to publish proclamation
   
33.05   Appointment of election employees
   
33.06   Town Canvassing Board
   
33.07   Ballots
   
33.08   Vacancies in nomination
   
33.09   Nominee application; filing fee
   
33.10   Canvassing results; tie votes
   
33.11   Certificate of election
   
33.12   Commencement of term
   
33.13   Constitutional oath
   
33.14   Expenses; cost
Editor’s note:
   All municipal elections with the town shall be conducted in accordance with
the general election laws of the state, insofar as the same may be applicable
to municipal elections, and for the purpose, the general election laws of the
state are herein adopted by reference.
§ 33.01 ADOPTION; TOWN AUTONOMY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority vested in cities and
towns of the state by:
      (1)   Article 13 § 1 of the State Constitution;
      (2)   Chapter 185 of the Sessions Laws of the State, 1975; and
      (3)   The Wyoming Statutes.
   (B)   The Town Council does elect to conduct elections pursuant to the terms
of this chapter and not in the same manner as statewide elections.
   (C)   A town ballot proposition to be voted on at an election shall be
printed on the town ballot by the designated Clerk.
   (D)   Wyo. Stat. §§ 22.320, 22.322, and 22.324 through 22.326 shall not
apply to the town.
   (E)   Except as to those sections of the Wyoming Statutes which have been
amended or modified by this chapter, all matters with respect to elections for
town office or for ballot propositions of the town shall be held in accordance
with the provisions of the State Election Code of 1973 and any amendments,
modifications, or revisions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -)
§ 33.02 SCHEDULE; MAYOR TERM.
   (A)   A municipal election shall be held in the town on the Tuesday next
following the first Monday in the month of May every two years beginning in
2026.
   (B)   (1)   Thereafter, two Council members shall be elected in May of each
even-numbered year.
      (2)   A Mayor shall be elected in May of 2008 and serve for a term of
four years with the successive election in May of 2012 and each four-year
period thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -; Ord. 214, passed 4-1-2008; Ord.
320, passed 6-26-2024)
§ 33.03 POLL TIMES; LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Polls shall be opened at 9:00 a.m. and closed at 7:00 p.m. local time.
A Judge of Election shall proclaim aloud at 9:00 a.m. at the polls that the
polls are opened.
   (B)   The designated Clerk shall designate the polling place for municipal
elections within the town and shall also be responsible for determining if a
person seeking nomination is a qualified elector of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -)
§ 33.04 DESIGNATED CLERK TO PUBLISH PROCLAMATION.
   Between 95 and 45 days before each town election, the designated Clerk shall
publish, once in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the town and post
conspicuously in not less than three public places around town, a proclamation
setting forth the date of the forthcoming election, the titles and terms of the
officers to be filled at the election, the number of persons required by law to
fill the offices, the requirements for filing statements of campaign receipts
and expenditures, and, in addition before the election, the legislative
description of each proposed ballot proposition submitted to the voters of the
town, if any.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -; Ord. 320, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 33.05 APPOINTMENT OF ELECTION EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall, by and with the advice of the Town Council, appoint
the Judges and Clerk of Election; there shall be appointed two capable and
discreet persons, possessing the qualifications of electors of the town to act
as Judges of Election, and one possessing the qualifications to act as a Clerk
of such municipal election.
   (B)   Such Judges and Clerk of Election shall take the oath of office
prescribed and governed by general election laws of the municipal election and
shall receive such salary as may be prescribed by the laws of the state for
Judges and Clerk in general elections conducted by count of state.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -; Ord. 200, passed 3-6-2004)
§ 33.06 TOWN CANVASSING BOARD.
   Wyo. Stat. § 22.1-223 is amended to read as follows:
      Section 22.1-223, Town canvassing board; compositions; compensation.
      The town canvassing board is the designated clerk, and two electors of
different political parties resident in the town appointed by the town council.
The two electors shall received the same compensation as election judges for
statewide elections.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -)
§ 33.07 BALLOTS.
   (A)   Wyo. Stat § 22.1-319 is amended to read as follows:
      Section 22.1-319, Certifications of ballot propositions.
      A town ballot proposition to be voted on at an election shall be printed
on the town ballot by the designated clerk.
   (B)   Wyo. Stat. § 22.1-328 is amended to read as follows:
      Section 22.1-328, Preparation of ballots—form; cost.
      The designated clerk shall prepare ballots which shall be in
substantially the same form as the statewide general election non-partisan
ballot. The name of every candidate legally qualified to appear on the ballot
and all town ballot propositions to be voted on at the election shall be
printed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -)
§ 33.08 VACANCIES IN NOMINATION.
   Wyo. Stat. § 22.1-327 is amended to read as follows:
      Section 22.1-327, Vacancies in nomination.
      A vacancy in nomination for a town office to be filled in a town election
occurs if at the time of the town election there are no nomination applications
for the office of mayor, or there are less than two nomination applications for
councilman. A vacancy in nomination shall be filled by the town council.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -)
§ 33.09 NOMINEE APPLICATION; FILING FEE.
   Not more than 95 days and not less than 35 days preceding the town election,
each candidate for a town office shall pay the prescribed filing fee and file
with the designated Clerk an application in the form found below:
STATE OF WYOMING
TOWN OF FORT LARAMIE
I,                                  , the undersigned, being              years
of age, a qualified elector of the Town of Fort Laramie and the State of
Wyoming, do hereby petition and request that my name be printed upon the
Official Ballot at the next town election as a candidate for the office of
                                                 .
I hereby declare that if nominated and elected I will qualify for the office.
Dated:                                      
                                                                    
Signature of candidate
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -; Ord. 320, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 33.10 CANVASSING RESULTS; TIE VOTES.
   Wyo. Stat. § 22.1-331 is amended to read as follows:
      Section 22-1-331, Canvassing results; certification; votes.
      The returns of the town election shall be canvassed by the town
canvassing board which shall certify the results in writing to the Clerk/
Treasurer. A tie vote shall be broken by lots cast by the town canvassing
board.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -)
§ 33.11 CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.
   Wyo. Stat. § 22.1-332 is amended as follows:
      Section 22.1-332, Certificate of Election.
      As soon as the official result of the town election is received from the
town canvassing board, the designated clerk shall issue certificates of
election to the persons receiving the highest number of votes for each office
to be filled at the election.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -)
§ 33.12 COMMENCEMENT OF TERM.
   Wyo. Stat. § 22.1-333 is amended to read as follows:
      Section 22.1-333, Commencement of term of office.
      The term of office of a person elected at the town election commences on
June 1st following the election.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -)
§ 33.13 CONSTITUTIONAL OATH.
   Wyo. Stat. § 22.1-334 is amended to read as follows:
      Section 22.1-334, Constitutional oath required.
      Before entering his duties, a person elected to a town office shall sign
and file with the office of the clerk the same constitutional oath of office as
county officers.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -)
§ 33.14 EXPENSES; COST.
   The town shall bear the expense of any election held pursuant to this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Charter Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 34: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Confiscated or abandoned property
   
34.02   Annual appropriations
§ 34.01 CONFISCATED OR ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED PROPERTY. Any item of personal property coming into the
possession of the town, its officers, or employees, which property remains
unclaimed by the owner for a period of 90 days.
      CONFISCATED PROPERTY. Any item of personal property taken by any police
officer of the town from any person when, under the circumstances, the
possession by such person was a violation of the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-1)
   (B)   Any abandoned property in the possession of the town shall be sold by
the Clerk/Treasurer in conformity with the laws of the state and the proceeds
therefrom placed in the General Fund.
      (1)   Any confiscated property shall be exhibited to the Law Enforcement
Officer who shall examine such property, record a description of the
confiscated items in the docket, and note the date that such property was
exhibited. Upon final disposition of the case in the event of a conviction, the
Law Enforcement Officer shall, as part of the judgment, order the confiscated
property turned over to the Clerk/Treasurer for sale or disposal.
      (2)   At least once during a calendar year, the Clerk/Treasurer shall
sell all items confiscated during the preceding year except alcoholic and malt
beverages, weapons, and controlled substances. The property shall be sold at
public auction for cash to the highest bidder after notice published by the
Clerk/Treasurer in the official newspaper of the town one time at least ten
days prior to the date of the sale. The notice shall describe the items to be
sold and the time and place of the sale. All proceeds from the sale shall be
placed in the General Fund.
      (3)   Any alcoholic and malt beverages, weapons, or controlled substances
confiscated shall, immediately after the court order becomes final, be
destroyed under the supervision of the Clerk/Treasurer and a law enforcement
representative.
(Prior Code, § 6-2)
§ 34.02 ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   The portion of Wyo. Stat. § 15-2-201(a) that reads “No further
appropriation may be made at any other time within the fiscal year, unless the
proposition to make each appropriation has been first sanctioned by a majority
of the qualified electors of such town, either by a petition signed by them or
at a general or special election duly called for that purpose”, shall not apply
to the town.
   (B)   The fiscal year for the town and its agencies shall begin July 1 and
end July 30. All claims and encumbrances allowed by the governing body at its
meeting beginning in July for the expense incurred in the preceding fiscal year
shall be charged against the budget for said preceding year.
   (C)   The governing body by resolution may amend the annual appropriation as
the need therefor may arise, but the total amount appropriated shall not exceed
the probable amount of revenue that will be collected during the fiscal year.
   (D)   The provisions of the ordinance codified herein shall apply to the
fiscal year first commencing July 1, 1977, and all subsequent years thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 5-2) (Charter Ord. 105, passed 12-7-1977)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
      
53.   ELECTRICITY
      
54.   SOLID WASTE
      
55.   NATURAL GAS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Owner responsibility
   
50.02   Water and Sewer Commissioner
   
50.03   Town authority
   
50.04   Furnishing services
   
50.05   Non-franchised purchases
   
50.06   Acquiring property of non-franchised services
Billing; Fees
   
50.20   Deposits
   
50.21   Billing procedures
   
50.22   Due dates; delinquent accounts; reconnection fees
   
50.23   Inspection fees
   
50.24   Connection fees
Editor’s note:
Case holding that a service charge imposed for paying for the construction of a
sewerage disposal plant is not a tax, see Laverents v. City of Cheyenne, 67
Who. 187, P. 2d 877 (1950)
Case holding that service charges may be imposed for three purposes, namely to
pay for the operation and maintenance of the system, to provide an adequate
depreciation fund, and to pay the principal and interest on bonds, see Antlers
Hotel, Inc. v. Town of City of Newcastle, 80 Wyo. 294.341 P. 2d 951 (1959)
Case holding that ordinances setting flat water rates for some consumers and
metered rates for others on which sewerage rates were based is not per see
illegal, arbitrary, discriminatory, or unjust, see Antlers Hotel, Inc. v. Town
of City of Newcastle and Ira Baldwin v. Town of City of Newcastle, 80 Wyo. 294,
641 P. 2d 951 (1959)
Statutory reference:
   Board of public utilities, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 15-7-401 to 15-7-412
   Contracts for public improvements generally, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-113
   Joint Powers Act, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 16-1-102 to 16-1-109
   Public improvements generally, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 15-7-101 to 15-7-490
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 50.01 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The owner of the property furnished electricity, water, sewer, and
sanitation (trash removal) by the town shall be liable for the utility charges
incurred for such property; therefore, liability shall be imposed on the owner
of the property for any charges incurred by his or her tenants or agents.
   (B)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 261, passed 6-10-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.02 WATER AND SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   There is created the office of Water and Sewer Commissioner. The
Water and Sewer Commissioner shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
consent of the Town Council.
      (2)   He or she shall have such experience as shall be necessary for the
faithful performance of the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 12-22)
   (B)   The Water and Sewer Commissioner shall be the Superintendent of
Sewers, and as such Superintendent, he or she shall have charge and management
of the sewerage system of the town, and all property belonging or pertaining
thereto, and shall see that the system is kept properly cleaned and in good
working order and repair. He or she shall perform all such duties in connection
with such system as shall be required of him or her by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-23)
§ 50.03 TOWN AUTHORITY.
   It is declared to be the public policy of the town to preempt the exclusive
power and authority to provide, furnish, and distribute unto the citizens and
occupants of the town and residing in or maintaining a place of business within
the corporate limits of the town: all electrical power, all natural gas
service, water service, television service, radio service, telephone and
telegraph service, transportation, and other utility services used by the
citizens of the town, required by the citizens or subsequently furnished to the
citizens now or in the future, except such services that shall be provided by
persons who have been granted a franchise from the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to grant utility franchises, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-103
§ 50.04 FURNISHING SERVICES.
   No person shall sell, provide, distribute, or otherwise furnish electrical
power, natural gas service, propane service, telephone service, telegraph
service, water for domestic use and service, radio service, television service,
or other public utility service within the incorporated limits of the town,
unless such person or public utility shall have first been granted a franchise
and authority therefor to so do by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 12-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 NON-FRANCHISED PURCHASES.
   No person shall purchase, obtain, receive, use, or consume any electrical
power, any natural gas, telephone service, telegraph service, water for
domestic use and service, radio service, television service, or other public
utility service within the corporate limits of the town from any source other
than the town or a person or company who shall have first been granted a
franchise and authority to so furnish such service by the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 ACQUIRING PROPERTY OF NON-FRANCHISED SERVICES.
   The town shall have the right to acquire by eminent domain all poles, lines,
fixtures, pipelines, mains, and appurtenances of whatever nature of any
electric company, telegraph company, telephone company, gas company, water
company, television distributing company, radio distributing company,
transportation company, and of any other public utility company, association,
or corporation so providing or undertaking to provide and furnish any of town
when such public utility, company, association, corporation, or otherwise is
not then and there the holder of a franchise granted by the town to so provide
such services.
(Prior Code, § 12-4)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to exercise power of eminent domain, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-
1-103
**** BILLING; FEES ****
§ 50.20 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body shall from time to time establish the dollar
amount which shall be assessed and collected by the office of the Clerk, prior
to the time any utility services are provided by the town, as a deposit for
each commercial service and for each residential service; such deposit shall be
retained by the town until such time as all charges for utilities are paid in
full.
      (2)   Each utility account shall require a deposit in the amount of $100
per utility service, excluding refuse services, to be paid in full prior to the
commencement of service by the town.
   (B)   Any established utility account without a deposit shall be deemed
grandfathered. Any change in the name of the account holder shall be required
to submit a new utility application and provide the appropriate payment of any
applicable deposit.
   (C)   All deposits shall be returned upon termination of all utility service
and payment of all charges due the town for anything whatsoever. In the event
any amounts are due and owing to the town for anything whatsoever, the charges
shall first be deducted from any deposit so held by the town and the balance
refunded to the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 12-5) (Article 1, passed 5-10-2023)
§ 50.21 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Charges for utility services provided by the town shall be as set,
from time to time, by the Town Council. A copy of each ordinance establishing
such charges shall be maintained on file in the office of the Clerk of the town
where it shall be available for inspection by the public during the normal
office hours.
   (B)   Billing and collection procedures shall be as established by the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-6)
§ 50.22 DUE DATES; DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; RECONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   (1)   All charges for water, sanitation, sewer, and electrical
services and all related charges shall be due and payable at the office of the
Clerk on the fifteenth day after the date of mailing utility bills. Any account
not paid in full by the fifteenth day after mailing shall be deemed delinquent,
assessed a $25 late fee, mailed a letter detailing timelines to pay the account
as well as offered the opportunity to enter into a payment plan with the town,
and given an additional ten days to pay the amount owing in full.
      (2)   If payment arrangements are not made or the entire amount is not
paid in full by the end of said ten-day period, the utility services shall be
shut off. Utility services will not be shut off the day before holidays or on
Fridays. In the event of termination of any services, the user shall pay a
reconnection fee of $50 plus a nonrefundable penalty fee of $300 to the town
before any services are resumed. The previous utility charges shall be paid in
full prior to services being resumed.
   (B)   For any utility user that is currently delinquent on utility bills or
that cannot pay the utility bill described in division (A) above, in an effort
to avoid utility services being terminated, can enter into a payment plan with
the town on the following terms.
      (1)   The customer must pay for all future utility bills, beginning the
next immediate month of entering the payment plan, in full for the duration of
the payment plan.
      (2)   Upon entering into a payment plan, the customer shall pay $200 or
20%, whichever is less, of the arrears in addition to the current utility bill
until paid in full.
      (3)   A payment plan is null and void if divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2)
above are not fulfilled by the due date, and all utilities will immediately be
shut off.
(Prior Code, § 12-7) (Ord. 244A, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 50.23 INSPECTION FEES.
   The governing body shall from time to time establish the fee to be charged
for electrical inspection and plumbing inspection for each domestic residence,
and for every other type of construction shall be paid to the town at the time
a building permit is secured for any construction, remodeling, or other
activity for which any electrical and plumbing inspection is required.
(Prior Code, § 12-8)
§ 50.24 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   The following fees shall be paid for each connection of the electrical
service system of the town when the connection is for single-phase service or
for connection to the sewer system of the town:
      (1)   A connection fee of $300 plus the cost of time and materials, for
any electrical or sewer system connection for any other type of usage not
otherwise specified herein; and/or
      (2)   An amount set by the governing body from time to time plus an
amount equal to the difference in total cost of construction between single-
phase electrical service systems of the town for three-phase electrical
service.
(Prior Code, § 12-9)
   (B)   All fees shall be paid prior to the time any connection is made to the
service systems, and in the event of new construction where the facilities are
not present, all fees shall be paid prior to the commencement of any
construction of the facilities which will be required to provide the services.
(Prior Code, § 12-10)
   (C)   All connection fees for electrical services to be provided for all
lots, tracts, or other parcels in subdivisions shall be paid prior to the
commencement of any construction of the facilities which will be required to
provide the service.
      (1)   In lieu of payment of all electrical service connection fees in
advance of any construction, a subdivision may provide collateral acceptable to
the Town Council, guaranteeing payment of the electrical service connection
fees for all lots, tracts, or other parcels in the entire subdivision.
      (2)   The Town Council shall have the option of demanding payment in full
in advance of construction or of accepting a guarantee in lieu thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12-11)
   (D)   Connections to the sewer service system shall include connections to
the primary sewer service system of the town and connections to all feeder
lines connected thereto, regardless of ownership of the lines.
(Prior Code, § 12-12)
   (E)   (2)   An amount set by the governing body from time to time, plus and
amount equal to the difference in total cost of construction between single-
phase electrical service for each connection to the electrical service system
of the town for three-phase electrical service.
(Ord. 186, passed 8-1-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to provide and regulate electrical power, see Wyo. Stat.
§§ 15-1-103, 15-7-101, and 15-7-201 through 15-7-209
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Responsibility for connections
   
51.02   Rates
   
51.03   Water users outside town limits
   
51.04   Permit
   
51.05   Application
   
51.06   Water line installation; fees
   
51.07   Billing; payments
   
51.08   Irrigation water
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to establish and regulate water system, see Wyo. Stat. §§
15-1-103 and 15-7-101
   Constitutional limitations on debt incurred to supply water, see Wyoming
Constitution Article 16, § 5
   Contracts to furnish water, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 15-7-460 through 15-7-465
   Storage of water for municipal uses, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 41-14-401, 41-14-102,
and 41-14-103
   Waterworks franchises, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 15-7-480 through 15-7-490 and 15-1-
103
   Waterworks generally, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 15-7-401 through 15-7-490
§ 51.01 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All connections to the main water system of the town and all shall be
made by a person duly employed by the town or under a town employee’s
supervision.
(Prior Code, § 12-30)
   (B)   (1)   Water mains shall be maintained and repaired by the town at its
cost, unless damage was caused by others.
      (2)   Service lines shall be maintained and replaced as needed by the
town at its cost from the main to the water meter, with the entity or person
served by such service line responsible for maintaining and replacing, at his
or her cost, such service line from the water meter to wherever the service
line continues thereafter.
      (3)   When leaking occurs on the customer’s service line, the service
line from the water meter to the point of use shall be replaced within 14
business days using materials that meet or exceed town standards, WDEQ, and the
International Plumbing Code. If a replacement of the service line is not made
within 14 business days, water service to the property will be terminated until
replacement of the service line has been completed.
(Ord. 331, passed 4-9-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02 RATES.
   The following rates are established for use of water with the town:
 
Commercial                               $49
Minimal water rate charge                $15
Out-of-town                              $59
Residential                              $49
Residential, commercial, and out-of-town $2 per 1,000 gallons over the base
over usage                               allotment for all users
 
(Ord. 336, passed 9-8-2025)
§ 51.03 WATER USERS OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Each water user residing outside the corporate limits of the
town using water furnished through the mains of the town or using water
supplied by the town shall pay an amount which the governing body shall
establish from time to time.
      (2)   From and after the effective date of passage of the ordinance
codified herein, as required by law, no town water or sewer services will be
extended to consumers located outside the town boundaries and not already
receiving such services.
(Prior Code, § 12-24)
   (B)   All users of water from the town residing outside the corporate limits
shall be deemed to have subscribed and agreed to all provisions of this chapter
applicable to water usage.
(Prior Code, § 12-25)
(Ord. 332, passed 5-14-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 PERMIT.
   No person shall tap or connect to any part of the water system of the town
or use any water therefrom without first obtaining a permit to do so from the
town.
(Prior Code, § 12-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to make a connection to the water system or to use water
therefrom shall make written application to the town for a permit. The
application for a permit to make any connection to the water system shall state
the name of the person to whom the permit is to be issued, the size of the tap,
the location thereof, the premises upon which the water is to be used, and the
purpose for which the water is to be used. All permits issued shall state the
name of the person to whom the permit is issued, the date of the permit, the
size of the tap, the premises upon which the water is to be used, and the
purpose for which the water is to be used.
(Prior Code, § 12-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 WATER LINE INSTALLATION; FEES.
   (A)   An installation fee of $300 for each water line connected to the main
water distribution line of the town, plus the cost of time and materials.
   (B)   For any installation larger than three-fourth’s of an inch, there
shall be assessed and collected a fee equal to the greater amount in division
(A) above or the actual cost of the materials and labor for any installation
larger than one inch connected to the main water distribution line of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-28) (Ord. 197, passed 10-7-2003)
§ 51.07 BILLING; PAYMENTS.
   A $300 connection fee is to be paid up front. Time and materials will be due
30 days after completion.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 IRRIGATION WATER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      IRRIGATION WATER. The water acquired by the town from the Pathfinder
Irrigation District and the Lingle Water Users Association.
      LATERALS. All ditches, pipes, or other conveyances of irrigation water
including headgates (head gates), diversion boxes, and other appurtenances.
      SEASON. The period of time during the calendar year that irrigation water
is available for delivery.
      SUBSCRIBER. Any person requesting delivery of irrigation water and paying
the established rate.
   (B)   The town may deliver water to lots designated by paid subscribers
where delivery is practical and available. The maximum delivery will be one and
one-half cubic foot per second of water per lot for a period of one hour. Town
employees shall be responsible for setting all headgates, diversion boxes, and
water controls for delivery. The Mayor and town employees responsible for
delivery shall establish a schedule of delivery at the beginning of each
season. The delivery schedule will be based on the number and geographic
location of subscribers.
   (C)   All costs associated with the time and labor incurred by residents
seeking to obtain irrigation water access to their property shall be paid in
full as a condition prior to irrigation water access.
   (D)   Any person desiring delivery of irrigation water shall subscribe for
such delivery with the office of the Clerk prior to each season and submit such
fees, rates, or tariffs per lot as may be set by the Town Council. Set rates
are $25 per lot. These fees or tariffs shall be paid before irrigation water is
delivered.
   (E)   Each subscriber shall be responsible for the irrigation water when it
is delivered. Each subscriber shall take all precautions and care that the
irrigation water does not flow from his or her property onto town property,
streets or alleys, or onto adjoining private property. Any subscriber not
desiring water at the scheduled delivery time shall notify the Town Office 24
hours in advance.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency or for the general health, welfare, and
safety of the town, the town reserves the right to alter or suspend the
delivery schedule or to suspend all delivery of irrigation water.
   (G)   No subscriber will be delivered irrigation water unless the subscriber
agrees to all the rules and regulations pertaining to irrigation water as set
forth in this section or by resolution.
   (H)   No person shall in any way damage, alter, change, or interfere with
any laterals, headgates, diversion boxes, or other appurtenances of the town’s
irrigation water system, nor shall any person make a connection to any lateral
without permission from the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-31) (Ord. passed 6-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
Rates and Charges; Funds
   
52.01   Rates for usage
   
52.02   Sewer service charges; discharges
Public and Private Sewers
   
52.15   Definitions
   
52.16   Required use of town system
   
52.17   Permit; types
   
52.18   Permit application
   
52.19   Responsibility of cost/expenses
   
52.20   Connection per building; old sewers
   
52.21   Materials; construction
   
52.22   Excavations
   
52.23   Unpolluted waters; stormwater
   
52.24   Prohibited wastes/substances
   
52.25   Limited wastes/substances
   
52.26   Treatment/disposal of harmful wastes
   
52.27   Interceptors; wash racks
   
52.28   Pretreatment; flow-equalization facilities
   
52.29   Industrial waste sampling; measurement
   
52.30   User-provided information
   
52.31   Method of measurement, tests, and analysis
   
52.32   Agreements and arrangements
   
52.33   Damages to facilities
   
52.34   Authorized persons; employee safety
   
52.35   Violations
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to establish and regulate, and the like, sewers, see Wyo.
Stat. § 15-1-103
   Constitutional limitation on town debt incurred for sewerage systems, see
Wyoming Constitution Article 16, § 5
   Fixing rates by Board of Public Utilities, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-7-407
   Rates to be charged for sewer generally, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 15-7-436 and 15-
7-437
   Sewerage system public improvements, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 15-7-430 through 15-
7-442
**** RATES AND CHARGES; FUNDS ****
§ 52.01 RATES FOR USAGE.
   (A)   The following rates are established for use of sewers within the town:
 
Installed sewer rate $40 per month
Unoccupied lot rate  $15 per month
Vacant lot rate      $0 per month
 
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNOCCUPIED LOT. Any parcel of real property that is not currently
occupied by tenant, owner, or person for a period of 30 or more days. For the
purpose of this section, “real property” shall be deemed to be an UNOCCUPIED
LOT for such time the tenant, owner, or real person remains absent from the
real property, and shall continue until the tenant, owner, or person returns to
the real property, at which point the real property shall no longer be deemed
unoccupied and the base rate shall apply. An UNOCCUPIED LOT does have a sewer
pit and further has sewer services available.
      VACANT LOT. Any real parcel of real property that is not improved with a
complete, permitted, and permanent structure. For the purpose of this section,
“real property” shall be deemed a VACANT LOT unless a structure with a fixed
foundation is constructed upon the real property or water, sewer, or electric
are provided to any structure, building, or portion of the real property. A
VACANT LOT does not have a sewer pit and does not have sewers available.
(Ord. 335, passed 9-8-2025)
§ 52.02 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES; DISCHARGES.
    (A)   The purpose of this section shall be to generate sufficient revenue
to pay all costs for the operation and maintenance of the complete wastewater
system. The costs shall be distributed to all users of the system in proportion
to each user’s contribution to the total loading of the treatment works.
Factors such as strength of biochemical oxygen demand and total suspended
solids (BOD and TSS), volume, and delivery flow rate characteristics shall be
considered and included as the basis for the user’s contribution to ensure a
proportional distribution of operation and maintenance costs to each user or
user class.
   (B)   The governing body of the town, or its engineer, shall determine the
total annual costs of operation and maintenance of the wastewater system which
are necessary to maintain the capacity and performance, during the service life
of the treatment works, for which such works were designed and constructed. The
total annual cost of operation and maintenance shall include, but need not be
limited to: labor, repairs, equipment replacement, maintenance, necessary
modifications, power, sampling, laboratory tests, and a reasonable contingency
fund.
   (C)   (1)   The governing body of the town, or its engineer, shall determine
for each user or user class the average daily volume of wastewater discharged
to the wastewater system, which shall then be divided by the average daily
volume of all wastewater discharged to the wastewater system to determine such
user’s volume contribution percentage. The amount used as the total average
daily volume of wastewater shall exclude infiltration and inflow. The governing
body, or its engineer, shall determine for each user or user class the average
daily poundage of five-day 68°F biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) discharged to
the wastewater system which shall then be divided by the average daily poundage
of all five-day BOD discharged to the wastewater system to determine such
user’s BOD contribution percentage.
      (2)   The governing body of the town, or its engineer, shall determine
for each user or user class the average daily total suspended solids (TSS)
poundage discharged to the wastewater system, which shall then be divided by
the average daily poundage of all TSS discharged to the wastewater system, to
determine such user’s TSS contribution percentage. The volume contribution
percentage, BOD contribution percentage, and TSS contribution percentage for
each user or user class shall be multiplied by the annual operation and
maintenance costs for wastewater treatment of the total volume flow, total
five-day 68°F BOD, and TSS, respectively.
   (D)   (1)   The governing body of the town, or its engineer, will assess a
surcharge rate for all users discharging wastes with BOD and TSS strengths
greater than the average residential user. All users exceeding the design
average per capita volume and exceeding the waste strengths (BOD and TSS) as
shown on page three of Appendix A attached to the ordinance codified herein,
shall prepare and file with the town a report that shall include pertinent data
relating to the wastewater characteristics, including the methods of sampling
and measurement to obtain this data, and this data shall be used to calculate
the user charge for that user.
      (2)   The town shall have the right to gain access to the waste stream
and take its own samples. Should the town do so, and should the results be
substantially different as determined by the town from the data submitted by
the user, the user charge for that user shall be revised for the next billing
cycle period. Such users will be assessed a surcharge sufficient to cover the
cost of treating the above-normal strength wastes.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL USER. All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings,
laundries, home businesses, and other private business and service
establishments.
      INDUSTRIAL USER. Any nongovernmental, nonresidential user of publicly
owned treatment works which is identified in the standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented, under the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B: Mining;
         (c)   Division D: Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary; and
         (e)   Division I: Services.
      INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any social, charitable, religious, governmental, and
educational activities such as schools, churches, nursing homes, and similar
institutional users.
      RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as detached, semidetached, row
houses, mobile homes, and multi-family dwellings.
   (F)   Each nonresidential user’s wastewater treatment cost contributions, as
determined in divisions (C) and (D) above, shall be added together to determine
such user’s annual wastewater service charge.
      (1)   Residential users may be considered to be one class of user, and an
equitable service charge may be determined for each user based on an estimate
of the total wastewater contribution of this class of user. The governing body
may classify industrial, institutional, commercial, and other nonresidential
establishments as a residential user, provided that the wastes from these
establishments are equivalent to the wastes from the average residential user
with respect to volume, total suspended solids, and BOD.
      (2)   Each user’s wastewater treatment cost contribution will be assessed
in accordance with the adopted rate schedule attached to the ordinance codified
herein as Appendix A.
   (G)   A reserve fund called the Wastewater Facilities Replacement Fund is
hereby established within the wastewater utility fund for the purpose of
providing sufficient funds to be expended for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories, and appurtenances during the useful life (20 years) of
the wastewater treatment facilities necessary to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such facilities are designed and constructed.
   (H)   (1)   The town shall review the total annual cost of operation and
maintenance as well as each user’s wastewater contribution percentage not less
often than every two years, and will revise the system as necessary to assure
equity of the service charge system established herein, and to assure that
sufficient funds are obtained to adequately operate and maintain the wastewater
treatment works.
      (2)   The town shall apply excess revenues collected from a class of
users to the costs of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for
the next year and adjust the rate accordingly.
      (3)   Any user who feels the user charge is unjust and inequitable may
make written application requesting a review of the user charge. Said written
request shall, where necessary, show the actual or estimated average flow and/
or strength of his or her wastewater in comparison with the values upon which
the charge is based, including how the measurements or estimates were made.
      (4)   Review of the request shall be made by the town; and if
substantiated, the user charges for that user shall be recomputed based on the
revised flow and/or strength data, and the new charges shall be applicable to
the next billing period.
(Ord. 158, passed - -1993)
**** PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS ****
§ 52.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside an inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of landowner by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approval pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and service of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as district from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of seven and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (one and twenty-seven-
hundredths centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER, as
defined herein.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration,
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface
water, or unpolluted water from any source. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of wastewater facilities, and/or
wastewater treatment works, and/or of water pollution control of the town; or
his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
removable in laboratory filtering as prescribed in “Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater” and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions; together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WATER TREATMENT PLANT, or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, or WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 52.16 REQUIRED USE OF TOWN SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   All occupied lots or parts of lots or land in the town shall be
connected by a sewer service line to the sewer main. No privy vault, septic
system, or cesspool shall be installed, maintained, or kept on any property in
the town.
      (2)   Extension of sewer mains to serve property within the town shall be
financed and paid for on such terms and conditions as the Town Council shall
provide.
(Prior Code, § 12-40)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit
to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
      (4)   The owner of any house, building, or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future by located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the town, is required, at the owners expense, to install suitable toilet
facilities herein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of the requirements of the town.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.17 PERMIT; TYPES.
   (A)   No unauthorized persons shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 12-32)
   (B)   (1)   No unauthorized persons shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
      (2)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (3)   In either case, the owners or agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A fee shall be paid as
established by the town.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.18 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to open or uncover any public sewer, or lay
or cause to be laid in any public street, alley, highway, or upon any private
property any sewer line or drainage pipes, shall make application to the town
for a permit to do so.
      (2)   Such application shall be in writing, signed by the applicant or
his or her agent, shall state the name of the individual who it is desired
shall do such work, and shall be accompanied by a plan showing the course of
the drain and the size and location of any branches, fixtures, and traps to be
connected therewith.
   (B)   (1)   If the drain is to be connected with a sewer belonging to any
person other than the town, the applicant must file a written consent of the
owner of such sewer to be connected with. Upon approval of the application, the
town shall issue a permit.
      (2)   All drainage pipes shall be laid upon line and grade required by
the Water and Sewer Commissioner. All work done under any permit shall be by a
licensed plumber and shall be under the supervision of the Water and Sewer
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 12-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.19 RESPONSIBILITY OF COST/EXPENSES.
   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 52.20 CONNECTION PER BUILDING; OLD SEWERS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway; the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building,
and the whole not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by
or resulting from any such single connection.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.21 MATERIALS; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials, or construction of all
sanitary sewers, including building sewers, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements of regulations of the town.
      (2)   In the absence of suitable code provisions or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
sewer or building drain, which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified
by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.22 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.23 UNPOLLUTED WATERS; STORMWATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, or cooling water to any sewer; except stormwater runoff from limited
areas, which stormwater may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the
sanitary sewer by permission of the Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   Stormwater, other than that exempted under division (A) above
and all other unpolluted drainage, shall be discharged to such sewer as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent.
      (2)   Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined
sewer, or natural outlet.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.24 PROHIBITED WASTES/SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described water wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or other
wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard in, or have an adverse effect on the waters receiving any discharge from
the works;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, or personnel of the wastewater works; and/or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
paunch manure, hair and fleshing, entrails; and paper dishes, cups, milk
containers, and the like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   Each user which discharges any toxic pollutants, which cause an
increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the treatment
works, shall pay for such increased costs.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.25 LIMITED WASTES/SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   (1)   The following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes
shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either the sewers, the sludge, or any municipal
system, and the wastewater treatment process or equipment will not have an
adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, or public property or constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   The Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations
established in the regulations below if, in his or her opinion, such more
severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives.
      (3)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of
subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity
of the limitations or restrictions on materials, or characteristics of waste or
wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer, which shall not be violated
without approval of the Superintendent, are as follows:
         (a)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
         (b)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils, or produce of mineral-oil
origin;
         (c)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils,
fats, or grease;
         (d)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
         (e)   Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, catering establishments, or similar places
where garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the
purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc,
and similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such
material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works
exceeds the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials;
         (g)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances
exceeding limits, which may be established by the Superintendent;
         (h)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (i)   Quantities of flow or concentrations or both, which constitute a
slug as defined herein;
         (j)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
         (k)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system: release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   (B)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (A) above, and which in the judgment
of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent
may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 52.26 TREATMENT/DISPOSAL OF HARMFUL WASTES.
   (A)   (1)   Wastes detrimental to the public sewer system or detrimental to
the functioning of the sewage treatment plant shall be treated and disposed of
as found necessary and directed by the governing body or other authority having
jurisdiction.
      (2)   Sewage or other waste from a plumbing system which may be
deleterious to surface or subsurface waters shall not be discharged into the
ground or into any waterway unless it has first been rendered innocuous through
subjection to some acceptable form of treatment.
(Prior Code, § 12-35)
   (B)   (1)   Chemical or industrial liquid wastes which are likely to damage
or increase maintenance costs of the sanitary sewer system, detrimentally
affect sewage treatment, or contaminate surface or subsurface water, shall be
pretreated to render them innocuous prior to discharge into a drainage system.
      (2)   Piping conveying industrial, chemical, or process wastes from their
point of origin to sewer- connected pretreatment facilities shall be of such
material and design as to adequately perform its intended function.
(Prior Code, § 12-36)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.27 INTERCEPTORS; WASH RACKS.
   (A)   Interceptors (including grease, oil, sand interceptors, and the like)
shall be provided when, in the judgment of the governing body or other
authority, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease, flammable wastes, sand, solids, acids, or alkaline
substances or other ingredients harmful to the building drainage system, the
public, or a private sewage disposal system.
(Prior Code, § 12-37)
   (B)   Every private or public wash rack and/or floor or slab used for
cleaning machinery or machine parts shall be adequately protected against storm
or surface water and shall drain or discharge into a sand and grease
interceptor of an approved design.
(Prior Code, § 12-38)
   (C)   When waste pretreatment is required, an approved-type grease
interceptor shall be installed in the waste line leading from sinks, drains,
and other fixtures or equipment in the following establishments: restaurants,
cafés, lunch counters, cafeterias, bars and clubs, hotel or school kitchens, or
other establishments where grease may be introduced into the drainage or
sewerage system in quantities that can effect line stoppage or hinder sewage
treatment.
(Prior Code, § 12-39)
   (D)   (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the operation of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in any flammable wastes, sand, or
other harmful ingredients, except quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captivated materials and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal, which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner must be performed
by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.28 PRETREATMENT; FLOW-EQUALIZATION FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalization facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.29 INDUSTRIAL WASTE SAMPLING; MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   When repairing by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of
the wastes.
   (B)   Such structures, when repaired, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.30 USER-PROVIDED INFORMATION.
   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this subchapter. These
requirements may include:
   (A)   Wastewater’s discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
   (B)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
   (C)   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
   (D)   Quality and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent, or
other materials important to sewer and pretreatment facility location;
   (E)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility locations;
   (F)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
   (G)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 52.31 METHOD OF MEASUREMENT, TESTS, AND ANALYSIS.
   All measurements, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods of the Examination of
Water and Wastewater” published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, locations, times, durations, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 52.32 AGREEMENTS AND ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in §§
52.23 through
52.31 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the town and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the town for treatment.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 52.33 DAMAGES TO FACILITIES.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment, which is a part of the wastewater facilities.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.34 AUTHORIZED PERSONS; EMPLOYEE SAFETY.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to discharge to the
community system in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes, which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the town shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town employees, and
the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
the town employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury
or property damage asserted against the company growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
52.29.
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the town holds
an easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the waste
water facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 52.35 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 160, passed 10-5-1993)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
53.01   Rates
   
53.02   Requirements for electrical work
   
53.03   Temporary service
   
53.04   Inspections
   
53.05   Pole/wire placement
   
53.06   Meter installations
   
53.07   Liability
   
53.08   Unlawful connections
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to provide and regulate electrical power, see Wyo. Stat.
§§ 15-1-103, 15-7-101, and 15-7-201 through 15-7-209
§ 53.01 RATES.
   (A)   The following rates are established for use of electricity within the
town:
 
Installed electrical rate $0.15 per kW in addition to a $15 base rate
Unoccupied lot rate       $15 per month
Vacant lot rate           $0 per month
 
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNOCCUPIED LOT. Any parcel of real property that is not currently
occupied by a tenant, owner, or person for a period of 30 or more days. For the
purposes of this section, “real property” shall be deemed to be an UNOCCUPIED
LOT for such time the tenant, owner, or person remains absent from the real
property and shall continue until the tenant, owner, or person returns to the
real property, at which point the real property shall not longer be deemed
unoccupied, and the base rates shall apply. An UNOCCUPIED LOT has an electrical
meter on the premises.
      VACANT LOT. Any parcel of real property that is not improved with a
complete, permitted, and permanent structure. For the purposes of this section,
“real property” shall be deemed a VACANT LOT unless a structure with a fixed
foundation is constructed upon the real property or water, sewer, or electrical
services are provided to any structure, building, or portion of the real
property. A VACANT LOT does not have an electrical meter on the premises.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-10-2023)
§ 53.02 REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL WORK.
   (A)   No person shall make any connection to the town electrical system,
construct or install any electrical wiring in any building or structure, or
conduct any electrical work in any addition to any building or structure
without first obtaining a permit to do so. No connection shall be made to the
town electrical system without prior inspection and approval by the electrical
inspector.
(Prior Code, § 12-14)
   (B)   No person, except an licensed electrician, shall construct, repair,
install, or interfere with, in any manner, any electrical wiring or apparatus
in the town except on or within property owned or controlled by the person so
doing the construction, repair, or installation.
(Prior Code, § 12-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.03 TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   Any person desiring temporary service during construction of any building
shall pay a fee equal to the cost of equipment and labor upon application for
such service. The town shall provide all material for any temporary connection.
(Prior Code, § 12-16)
§ 53.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   An agent of the town shall have reasonable access to all building and
other structures at reasonable times for the purpose of determining the amount
of electricity consumed and for the inspection of all electrical wiring,
connections, and installations.
   (B)   No person shall deny any authorized agent of the town access for any
reasonable inspection.
(Prior Code, § 12-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05 POLE/WIRE PLACEMENT.
   The town shall have the power and supervision over the placing, erecting,
and wiring of all electrical poles and wires in the town. No pole or wire shall
be placed so as to create any unsafe or hazardous condition.
(Prior Code, § 12-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 METER INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall install a meter socket furnished by the town at a
location prescribed by the town. The town shall make all connections from the
transformer to the meter socket. All multiple-family dwellings shall have all
meters located in a central area, and each meter shall be equipped with a
separate disconnect.
   (B)   (1)   All electrical service installed for buildings, except buildings
used for residential purposes or private garages, located within the fire
limits of the town shall be in conduit, equipped at outer end with approved
service head or conduit fitting, and extending, without outlet or junction box,
into service cabinets of approved steel construction.
      (2)   All cabinets shall be located inside the walls of the building in
the nearest accessible place to the point where the wires enter the building.
Cabinets shall be arranged so that the handle of any service switch is not more
than seven feet above a permanent floor. All conduit and cabinets shall be
securely and firmly bonded and grounded.
(Prior Code, § 12-19) (Ord. 184, passed 4-4-2000)
§ 53.07 LIABILITY.
   The town shall control and be responsible for all service to the outside
disconnect meter base and the consumer shall be responsible for all service
thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 12-20)
§ 53.08 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall connect or change any wire, other instrument, device,
or contrivance which transmits or supplies or is intended to transmit or supply
electricity to any house, mobile home, store or other building, without the
express knowledge and consent of the electrical inspector of the town or his or
her authorized agent.
   (B)   No person shall connect or change any wire, other instrument, device,
or contrivance with any wire transmitting or supplying or intended to transmit
or supply electricity to any house, mobile home, store or other building in
such a manner as to transmit or supply any electricity to any house, mobile
home, store, or other building around or without passing through the meter
provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity of electricity
passing through it without the knowledge or consent of the electrical inspector
or his or her authorized agent.
   (C)   No person shall willfully injure, alter, or interfere with or obstruct
the action or operation of any meter measuring electricity passing through it.
(Prior Code, § 12-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 54: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Owner responsibility
   
54.02   Collection rates
Collection Services; Regulations
   
54.15   Definitions
   
54.16   Collection by town
   
54.17   Prohibited practices
   
54.18   Garbage container design/placement
   
54.19   Preparing materials for collection
   
54.20   Billing; fees
   
54.21   Landfills
   
54.22   Amendments; future regulations
 
   
54.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate the hauling of refuse, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-
103
   Powers of town with respect to health, safety, and welfare generally, see
Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-103
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 54.01 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the property furnished trash removal by the town shall be
liable for the trash charges incurred for such property; therefore, liability
shall be imposed on the owner of the property for any charges incurred by his
or her tenants or agents.
(Prior Code, § 13-9)
§ 54.02 COLLECTION RATES.
   (A)   The following rates are established for use of trash removal with the
town:
 
Large commercial $66.15 per month
Residential      $27.75 per month
Small commercial $36.95 per month
 
   (B)   The town and contracted trash removal entity reserves the right to
reach consensus on the charges to commercial entities based solely on the
volume of trash the commercial entity is producing.
(Prior Code, § 13-6; Prior Code, § 13-10) (Ord. 321, passed 3-13-2024)
**** COLLECTION SERVICES; REGULATIONS ****
§ 54.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. All buildings or premises not included in the
definition of a residence.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, or
consumption of foods; wastes from the handling, storage, and sale of produce;
and/or any other matter whatsoever that may decompose and become foul,
offensive, unsanitary, or dangerous to health.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste or combination of wastes which are nondegradable
or persistent in nature, can be biologically magnified, or can be lethal and
which pose a substantial present or potential hazard.
   REFUSE. Combustible and noncombustible discarded materials including but not
limited to: paper, wood, glass, metal and cloth products, yard trimmings, tree
branches, furniture, bedding, building materials, leaves, ashes, and solid
wastes resulting from residential activities and industrial and manufacturing
processes.
   RESIDENCE. Any living quarters not connected to a business or commercial
establishment with kitchen facilities, including mobile homes, apartments, and
churches.
   RURAL RESIDENCES. Those residences not in the corporate limits of the town
but are within a five-mile radius of the town or within the geographic limits
of the town’s Rural Fire District.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-8-1987)
§ 54.16 COLLECTION BY TOWN.
   (A)   (1)   All garbage and refuse accumulated in the town shall be
collected, conveyed, and disposed of by the town. No person shall be collect or
convey over any of the streets or alleys of the town or dispose of any garbage
and refuse accumulated in the town.
      (2)   This subchapter shall not prohibit the actual producers of garbage
and refuse, or the owners of premises upon which garbage and refuse has
accumulated, from collecting conveying and disposing of such garbage and
refuse, providing such producers or owners comply with the provisions of this
subchapter and with any other governing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   The town will provide garbage and refuse collection in the alleys
within the corporate limits of the town and in streets where alley collection
is not practical, from approved or town-supplied containers. Frequency of
service will be determined by the Mayor and Town Council.
   (C)   The town will provide for the collection of leaves, tree branches, and
yard trimmings on a frequency determined by the seasonal needs and volume
generally along the same routes as garbage and refuse collection.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.17 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   (A)   No person shall dump, place, or bury in any lot, land, or street
within the town any garbage, refuse, hazard waste, other waste matter, or any
other deleterious or offensive substance.
   (B)   No person shall place in containers for regular collection any highly
inflammable or explosive materials, nor any burning material, hot coals, or
ashes.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.18 GARBAGE CONTAINER DESIGN/PLACEMENT.
   (A)   All garbage and refuse cans shall be constructed of galvanized iron,
metal, or other material approved by the town and shall not exceed 35 gallons
in capacity or 75 pounds in content.
   (B)   All garbage and refuse cans shall be kept at some proper and
accessible place within easy reach of the collector. Such cans shall be secured
in such a manner as to provide reasonable security against being overturned by
animals, wind, or other causes.
   (C)   Property owners or tenants of property fronting alleys will deposit
refuse in the alley in a manner that will prevent blowing and spreading.
Property owners or tenants not having access to alleys will use suitable
containers or place refuse in such a manner that will prevent blowing and
spreading, will not create a nuisance, or will not create an eyesore.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.19 PREPARING MATERIALS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Tree limbs, branches, and wood used in construction shall be cut to
lengths not exceeding six feet. Rock, stone, brick, concrete, dirt, and other
building materials shall be placed in such a manner as to make collection
practical and within easy reach of the collector.
   (B)   Appliances, furniture, and other bulky wastes or refuse will be
collected upon special request and arrangement with the town and shall be
placed near the garbage or refuse cans in such a manner as to make collection
practical and within easy reach of the collector.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.20 BILLING; FEES.
   (A)   The Town Council shall establish fees, rates, or tariffs for garbage
and refuse collection by resolution and may from time to time adjust, by
resolution, such fees, rates, or tariffs consistent with the costs of providing
such services.
   (B)   (1)   All accounts shall be considered delinquent if not paid by the
tenth of the month following the month for which the service was rendered. All
delinquent accounts are subject to stoppage of service if not paid within 30
days of notice of delinquency unless otherwise directed by the Town Council.
Service shall be resumed thereafter only on payment of the accumulated fees for
the period of collection and the period of non-collection unless the Town
Council directs otherwise.
      (2)   The stoppage of services hereinbefore authorized for non-payment of
collection charges shall be in addition to the right of the town to proceed for
collection of such unpaid charges in any manner provided by law for the
collection of a municipal claim.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-8-1987)
§ 54.21 LANDFILLS.
   (A)   (1)   There is established a municipal sanitary landfill for the
municipality to be used for the disposal of all garbage, refuse, ashes, and
other waste matter or materials.
      (2)   The sanitary landfill site shall be fenced with locked gates. Only
the town personnel and landfill attendant shall have access to keys for the
sanitary landfill.
   (B)   The sanitary landfill will be open and attended for a period of eight
hours at least two days per week, one of which shall be Saturday. The specific
hours shall be established by the Town Council according to seasonal and volume
needs.
      (1)   Use of the sanitary landfill by permit holders or other eligible
users as determined by the Town Council shall be during the time the facility
is open and attended.
      (2)   The town shall have printed and issue at no extra charge landfill-
use permits to all persons who pay collection service fees. Rural residents
shall have the opportunity to purchase landfill-use permits from the town at a
fee as may be established by the Town Council.
      (3)   Any person who has had stoppage of collection due to delinquency of
account as hereinbefore stated shall forfeit the landfill-use permit.
      (4)   Eligible users may deposit garbage, refuse, or other waste material
on a time by time basis by remitting such fees for use as may be set by the
Town Council to the attendant each time such person uses the sanitary landfill.
      (5)   Any person using the sanitary landfill shall deposit or place any
garbage and refuse in a manner and location as directed by the attendant.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place, or cause to be
deposited or placed the carcass of any animal or poultry or vehicle bodies in
the sanitary landfill operated by the town.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge firearms or
fireworks in the sanitary landfill facility operated by the town.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place, or cause to
be deposited or placed any hazardous waste in the sanitary landfill.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set a fire within the
sanitary landfill, with the exception of authorized town personnel for the
purpose of proper operation and maintenance.
      (4)   No person shall deposit, place, or cause to be deposited or placed
garbage, refuse, or waste material in unauthorized areas.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.22 AMENDMENTS; FUTURE REGULATIONS.
   The Town Council may make by resolution further rules and regulations as
deemed necessary for the provision of collection service and governing the use
and operation of the sanitary landfill.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-8-1987)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
54.15 through
54.22 shall be charged with a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof before a
Municipal Judge, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $750, plus costs of
prosecution as set forth by the laws of the state or by rules of the Supreme
Court.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-8-1987)
CHAPTER 55: NATURAL GAS
Section
   
55.01   Gas Department; Commissioner
§ 55.01 GAS DEPARTMENT; COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   There is created the town’s Department of Natural Gas and the office
of Natural Gas Commissioner. The Department shall be under the control of the
governing body. The Commissioner shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
consent of the Town Council.
   (B)   The town shall have the power to:
      (1)   Construct, purchase, or lease pipelines for the transportation and
distribution of natural gas to the inhabitants of the town;
      (2)   Purchase or lease real estate and all other property necessary for
the transportation and distribution of natural gas to the inhabitants of the
town;
      (3)   Purchase natural gas supplies or reserves for providing natural gas
to the inhabitants of the town;
      (4)   To do all other acts necessary for the purchasing, transportation,
distributing, and administering the distribution and sale of natural gas to the
inhabitants of the town; and
      (5)   Enter into any agreement with any other governmental agency which
the governing body feels is appropriate and beneficial for carrying out any of
the powers herein granted.
(Ord. 171, passed 5-7-1996)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption of Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways
   
70.02   Unnecessary engine/brake noise
   
70.03   Recreational vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM ACT REGULATING TRAFFIC ON HIGHWAYS.
   The “Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways” in Wyo. Stat. Title 31, as
amended, is adopted in its entirety as applicable, and:
   (A)   Wyo. Stat. § 24-1-110 “Exhibition of Acceleration”;
   (B)   Wyo. Stat. § 6-3-107 “Throwing Burning Substance from Vehicle:
Penalties”; and
   (C)   Wyo. Stat. § 6-3-204 “Littering”.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-5-2010)
§ 70.02 UNNECESSARY ENGINE/BRAKE NOISE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle in town limits to
race his or her engine, backfire said engine, or cause any other unnecessary
engine noise or excessive smoke to be produced as to cause a public nuisance or
disturbance.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to operate a motor vehicle in town limits
if the vehicle has a defect in the exhaust system which affects sound reduction
of the motor, is not equipped with a muffler or other noise dissipative device,
or is equipped with a cutout, bypass, amplifier, or similar device to limit
noise.
   (C)   No person shall operate or use any un-muffled vehicle compression
brake within the town limits. The use of compression brakes with straight pipes
is prohibited within town limits.
(Ord. 315, passed 9-8-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle-type unit designed for temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own
mode of power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE shall include but not be limited to the following.
         (a)   CAMPER. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis
for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and vacation uses.
         (b)   CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure mounted on wheels and
designed for travel, recreational, and vacation uses.
         (c)   MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for
travel, recreational, and vacation uses, constructed as an integral part of a
self-propelled vehicle.
         (d)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a
chassis and drawn by a motorized vehicle, and which is designed to be used as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and vacation uses.
   (B)   (1)   Any person may live in or continuously occupy a recreational
vehicle, as defined in division (A) above, within the property owner’s lot as
long as the recreational vehicle is legally connected to the town’s sewer,
water, and electricity.
      (2)   Those visiting are allowed to occupy their RV or trailer for a
period of 14 days without being hooked up to the town utilities. Any days
beyond the 14 days will require notification to the town.
   (C)   Nothing herein this section shall prevent recreational vehicles being
stored on residential properties that are in compliance with all applicable
laws or within commercial storage facilities.
(Ord. 314, passed 7-14-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The violation of §
70.02 is considered to be a misdemeanor offense that carries a fine of up to
$750, and the vehicle could be impounded.
(Ord. 315, passed 9-8-2021)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Parallel parking
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   Fifteen mph on Pioneer Court is the maximum speed, and no person shall drive
a vehicle or motorized vehicle in excess of 15 mph.
(Ord. 239, passed 5-1-2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   Parking on North Laramie Avenue, west side of the street, between
Merriam Street and Custer Street shall be designated as parallel parking only.
Vehicles must park in a southerly direction with their wheels adjacent to the
curb.
   (B)   At no time shall any vehicle be parked in a northerly direction on
North Laramie Avenue in the designated area in division (A) above.
(Ord. 240, passed 5-1-2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Filth, offal, and rubbish; junk vehicles
Refuse, Garbage, and Weeds
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Maintaining premises; responsibility
   
90.17   Notice of violation
   
90.18   Failure to comply
   
90.19   Placing garbage in containers
   
90.20   Tree trimming
   
90.21   Prohibited/restricted items in dumpsters
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.01 FILTH, OFFAL, AND RUBBISH; JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit,
leave, or cause to be deposited or left, the carcass of any dead animal in any
part of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place or
cause to be placed in or upon any street, alley, park, or public land; or in or
upon his or her own premises; or upon the premises of another person in the
town: any filth, offal, rubbish, or other accumulation which is or may become
offensive, unwholesome, or detrimental to the public health and safety.
Further, it shall be unlawful for any person to allow such matter specified
herein to remain upon any premises owned or occupied by him or her in such a
manner as to become unwholesome or offensive to any person or persons adjacent
thereto.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place or
cause to be placed any abandoned, wrecked, or junked automobile or any part
thereof in or upon any street, alley, public premises, or upon any premises
owned or occupied by him or her within the town except as provided in division
(D) below.
   (D)   (1)   The following conditions shall apply to the placement of any
wrecked or junked automobiles or any parts thereof upon premises owned or
occupied by any person, firm, or corporation within the town.
         (a)   Persons, firms, or corporations engaged in the business of
maintenance or repair of automobiles shall place any wrecked automobile or part
thereof in a place which is away from the public view.
         (b)   Persons, firms, or corporations engaged in the business of auto
body work, repair, or restoration of automobiles shall store such wrecked,
junked, or damaged automobiles or any part thereof in buildings or in an
enclosure surrounded by a fence of at least eight feet in height constructed of
such material as to block view.
         (c)   Any person restoring or repairing his or her own wrecked,
damaged, or antique automobile shall do so upon his or her own premises or upon
premises occupied by him or her, and such restoration or repair shall be
completed within a reasonable amount of time so as to prevent creation of a
nuisance or an eyesore to the public view.
         (d)   Any person storing his or her own wrecked automobile or any part
thereof upon premises owned or occupied by him or her shall place such
automobile or part thereof so as to be away from the public view and in such a
manner as not to become offensive, unwholesome, or detrimental to any person or
persons adjacent thereto.
         (e)   Any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of a
salvage yard or auto wrecking yard shall have said premises enclosed by a fence
of at least eight feet in height constructed of such material as to block view
and keep such premises in a condition which shall not be offensive,
unwholesome, or a detriment to public health and safety.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   (1)   When the Town Council shall have knowledge, upon complaint or
otherwise, that a nuisance or such offensive matter exists in violation of
divisions (A) through (D) above, or that any privy, stable, pigpen, butcher
shop, slaughterhouse, or other building, place, or thing is annoying to the
citizens of the town, or is likely to produce sickness or is a detriment to the
public health and safety, the Council shall forthwith direct the owner, agent,
or occupant of the premises on which such nuisances may exist to remove,
remedy, or abate the same within a reasonable time to be fixed by the Town
Council.
      (2)   If any owner, agent, tenant, or occupant neglects or refuses to
conform to the directions of the Town Council, the Town Council shall cause the
same to be removed or remedied at the expense of the town and such owner,
agent, tenant, or occupant convicted for violation of the provisions of this
section shall forfeit to the town double the amount of the expenses so incurred
by the town in addition to any fines and court costs which may be imposed.
(Ord. 137, passed 7-12-1988) Penalty, see §
90.99
**** REFUSE, GARBAGE, AND WEEDS ****
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A vehicle upon private property is an ABANDONED VEHICLE
when:
      (1)   Any of the four tires of the main wheels of such vehicle have been
removed or are deflated, other than for repair;
      (2)   Any of the main wheels of the vehicle have been removed, other than
for repair;
      (3)   Such vehicle is totally or partially suspended above the ground by
jacks, blocks, or any other lifting devices, other than for repair;
      (4)   Current license plates or valid temporary permits are not displayed
on such vehicle, provided that this shall not apply to vehicles in the
possession of licensed dealers for the purpose of sale at the place licensed
for such sale; and/or
      (5)   Any part of the mechanism of the vehicle has been removed so as to
render the vehicle inoperable, other than for repair.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, or
consumption of foods; wastes from the handling, storage, or sale of produce;
and any other matter whatsoever that may decompose and become foul, offensive,
unsanitary, or dangerous to health.
   REFUSE. Combustible and noncombustible discarded materials including but not
limited to: paper wood, glass, metal and cloth products, yard trimmings, tree
branches, furniture, bedding, building materials, leaves, ashes, and solid
wastes resulting from industrial and manufacturing processes.
(Prior Code, § 13-1)
§ 90.16 MAINTAINING PREMISES; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any owner, agent, tenant, purchaser,
contractor, or lessee of any premises within the town, including places of
business, dwelling houses, apartments, tenements, construction sites, or other
establishments, at all times, to maintain the premises in a clean and orderly
condition, permitting no deposit or accumulation of materials other than those
necessary or ordinarily attendant upon the use for which such premises are
legally intended.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any owner, occupant, or agent having control
of any lot or premises, as well as any portion of any alley adjoining the
premises, to:
      (1)   Mow, cut, destroy, or spray all weeds; and
      (2)   Remove all trash, garbage, junk, abandoned vehicles, unused
machinery, junk machinery, abandoned and discarded appliances, and all other
refuse.
   (C)   Any accumulation of trash, garbage, junk, abandoned vehicles, unused
vehicles, abandoned machinery, unused machinery, junk machinery, abandoned and
discarded appliances, and all other refuse is declared to constitute a nuisance
and a nonconforming use of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 13-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   Notice for violation of this section shall be a written notice
requiring the mowing, cutting, or destruction of weeds. The notice will require
the owner, occupant, or agent to comply with this violation removal within ten
days. Notice shall be deemed delivered when personally served or deposited in
the Unites States mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the owner,
occupant, or agent of the premises.
      (2)   Failure to comply will result in citation into Municipal Court for
resolution by fine and town cost for mowing, cutting, or spraying of said
property.
(Prior Code, § 13-2)
   (B)   The owner, agent, or occupant of any premises shall be liable for
compliance with this subchapter and §§
54.01 and
54.02, and if such person shall refuse to comply with the provisions of this
section, he or she shall be given written notice requiring removal of the
offending item or items within ten days. Notice shall be deemed delivered when
personally served or deposited in the United States mail, with postage prepaid,
and addressed to the owner, occupant, or agent of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 13-3)
(Ord. passed 8-2-2011)
§ 90.18 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Upon failure to comply with any written notice given pursuant to §
90.17(B), the town shall have the authority to remove any offending item and
charge the cost thereof as a special bill for refuse removal. In the event such
bill is not promptly paid for, it shall become a lien against the property and
collectible as such.
   (B)   The abatement of the nuisance by the town shall not relieve the person
in charge or control of such property of any penalty imposed for violation of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-4)
§ 90.19 PLACING GARBAGE IN CONTAINERS.
   All garbage and refuse shall be placed in the containers provided.
(Prior Code, § 13-5) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 TREE TRIMMING.
   (A)   An owner, lessee, occupant, or agent having control of any lot or
premises shall remove or trim any tree or portion thereof which creates an
unsafe condition for persons or property.
   (B)   An owner, lessee, or occupant of any property shall trim and remove
branches of any tree which interferes with any utility lines of the town.
   (C)   Any person who shall trim trees on any property within the town shall
be responsible for the removal from the streets, alleys, and other public ways
of the town, of all trash, limbs, and other debris created by such trimming.
   (D)   No person shall plant or place any tree on property belonging to the
town without prior approval of the governing body.
   (E)   The administrative officer or his or her designee shall require
compliance with this section, and the owner, lessee, agent, or occupant of any
premises shall be held liable for such compliance. If any person shall refuse
or fail to remove or trim any tree which is unsafe or interferes with any
utility lines upon any premises under his or her care and control, he or she
shall be served with written notice requiring removal or trimming of any tree
within three days from the receipt of such notice.
   (F)   (1)   Upon failure to comply with any notice give pursuant to division
(E) above, the town may have the tree or trees trimmed or removed, charging the
landowner the cost as a special bill for removal.
      (2)   Failure to pay the bill within five days of presentment to the
landowner shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code § 13-7) (Ord. 225, passed 6-11-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 PROHIBITED/RESTRICTED ITEMS IN DUMPSTERS.
   No person shall place any hazardous waters, rocks, cement, hot ashes, sod,
dirt, scrap iron, car batteries, motor oil, tires, or building materials in any
dumpster placed by the town or by any supplier of garbage disposal service for
the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-8) (Ord. 161, passed 5-7-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
90.01 shall be charged with a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof before a
Municipal Judge, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $750 plus costs of
prosecution as set forth by the laws of the state, or by imprisonment in the
town’s jail for not more than six months, or both.
(Ord. 137, passed 7-12-1988)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Trapping
   
91.03   Unlawful release of animals
   
91.04   Removing dead animals
   
91.05   Rabbits and pigeons
   
91.06   Wild animals; wolf hybrids
   
91.07   Cats
   
91.08   Stock animals
   
91.09   Fowl
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.20   Animal adoption; policy and procedure
   
91.21   Animal control officers
   
91.22   Animal control shelter
   
91.23   Violations
   
91.24   Citation; procedure
   
91.25   Enforcement; authority
   
91.26   Abatement of cruelty
   
91.27   Fees
   
91.28   Licensing requirements; fees
   
91.29   Kennels   
   
91.30   Dogs at large; impoundment
   
91.31   Impoundment release; reclamation
   
91.32   Failure to control dog; disposal of animal
   
91.33   Surrendering animals
Conditions and Regulations
   
91.45   Motor accidents; responsibility
   
91.46   Waste
   
91.47   Animals in vehicles
   
91.48   Cruelty; unlawful acts
   
91.49   Dangerous dogs
   
91.50   Disturbing the peace
   
91.51   Maintaining yards; pens
   
91.52   Proper food, shelter, and care
   
91.53   Vaccinations; rabies control
   
91.54   Vicious animals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Relinquishing, withdrawing, or failing to provide for the care,
custody, and control of an animal without provisions for adequate food, water,
shelter, or someone to check the animal’s condition, in excess of 24 hours.
   ADULT. Any animal above the age of six months.
   ALTERED. Spayed or neutered.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature except human beings, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL DISTRICT. The town limits or other contracted area.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the town as a lawful
enforcement officer who is qualified to perform such duties under the laws of
the state.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER. Any facility operated by the municipal agency or its
authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals held
under the authority of this chapter or state law.
   AT LARGE. A dog is deemed AT LARGE if it is off the premises of the owner
and the dog is not under restraint, nor is it under the control of the owner.
AT LARGE means and shall include any dog which:
      (1)   Molests people or passing vehicles (including bicycles);
      (2)   When off premises of the owner, attacks a human or other domestic
animal;
      (3)   Trespasses on school grounds;
      (4)   Damages public or private property;
      (5)   Is an unrestrained female dog in heat;
      (6)   Presents a traffic hazard; and/or
      (7)   Is on private property without the prior permission of the property
owner.
   CAT. A domesticated feline.
   CLEAN. Premises which do not have an offensive odor, do not have an
excessive number of flies or other insects, and/or do not otherwise cause an
unsanitary condition in the enclosure(s) of the surroundings where the animals
are kept.
   CONFINED. Within an enclosure designated to prevent intrusion or escape.
   CONTROL. An animal which is under verbal restraint which:
      (1)   Is physically capable of hearing normal commands and is obedient to
those commands; and
      (2)   Is, at the time under consideration, within reasonable proximity to
the controller so that shouting or excessively loud commands are not necessary.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Includes:
      (1)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack unprovoked; to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of a
human being or domestic animal without provocation on public or private
property, or which has been deemed vicious by the Municipal Court;
      (2)   Is trained for dog fighting; and/or
      (3)   Is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of dog
fighting.
   DOG. A domesticated canine.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMAL. Individual animals which are tractable or tame.
“Tractable” means easily managed, taught, docile, or complaint.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms and a single kitchen designed for or
occupied as a unit by one family or individual for living and cooking purposes.
   FOWL. Any of the larger domestic birds used as food, such as chickens.
   GOOD REPAIR. Is capable of confining the animal(s) for which the enclosure
is being used.
   HYBRID. The offspring of wild animals bred with domestic dogs and cats.
   ISOLATION FACILITY. Any place specified by an animal control officer, police
officer, or county health officer which is equipped with a pen or cage which
isolates an animal from contact with other animals.
   LEASH. A thong, cord, rope, chain, or similar device which holds an animal
in restraint and which is not more than six feet in length.
   LICENSING AUTHORITY. The Town Animal Control Facility or its designees.
   LIVE TRAP. A device designed to capture or contain an animal without causing
injury.
   OWNER/KEEPER. Any person, partnership, corporation, or his or her agents,
owning, keeping, or harboring one or more animals. In the case of dogs bearing
a license issued by the town, the OWNER of such dog shall be presumed, in the
absence of direct evidence to the contrary, to be the registered applicant for
such dog license as disclosed by the records in the office of the Clerk. An
animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three
consecutive days or more.
   PREMISES OF THE OWNER OR KEEPER OF AN ANIMAL. Only the property over which
the owner or keeper has full possession and control. The unenclosed property of
a condominium or town house or the common passageway, parking facility, or
unenclosed common yard of an apartment building or trailer court are not the
PREMISES OF ANY OWNER OR KEEPER.
   PROPER SHELTER. Natural or artificial shelter appropriate to the local
climatic conditions for the species concerned, as necessary for the health of
the animals.
   PROVOCATION. Threatening, teasing, or striking an animal, or threatening or
striking the animal’s owner either on or off the animal owner’s property.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Trespasses on public or private property;
      (2)   Is at large;
      (3)   Damages, soils, urinates, or defecates on private or public
property;
      (4)   Causes garbage which has previously been placed in a garbage or
refuse container to be strewn or deposited on private or public property;
      (5)   Habitually, constantly, or frequently disturbs the sleep, rest,
tranquility, or peace of any neighborhood or person;
      (6)   Chases pedestrians, bicyclists, or motor vehicles;
      (7)   Attacks other domestic animals;
      (8)   Any dog in heat which is not confined;
      (9)   Any animal which is tethered in such a way that either it or its
tether obstructs any part of a public road, alley, or pedestrian walkway; and/
or
      (10)   Any animal which creates offensive odors disturbing to any
neighbor or person.
   RABIES CERTIFICATE. A certificate signed by a licensed veterinarian
verifying that an animal is vaccinated against rabies, and which includes the
date of immunization and the date that the immunization expires.
   RESTRAINT. An animal shall be considered under RESTRAINT if it is under the
physical control of a responsible person by a leash or lead no longer than six
feet in length, or fixed to a stationary object not within reach of a street or
sidewalk, alley, or trail by a tether not less than 15 feet in length, but
within the real property limits of its owner.
   SURRENDER. Forfeiture by the owner of ownership and possession to the town.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. An establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for the boarding of animals or the diagnoses and treatment of
diseases and injuries of animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Includes:
      (1)   Any animal that constitutes a physical threat to human beings or
other animals, or one that bites claws, or attempts to bite or claw any person
or other animal;
      (2)   Any animal which attacks, inflicts injury, assaults, bites, or
menaces other people or other animals in any public or private place without
just provocation;
      (3)   Any animal which, unrestrained or inadequately restrained without
provocation, approaches in an endangering or terrorizing manner, any person
upon the street, sidewalk, or any public ground or place within the animal’s
control district or other contracted area, whether or not the attack was
consummated; and
      (4)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of vicious animal fighting or any animal trained for vicious animal fighting.
   WILD ANIMAL or EXOTIC PET. Any live monkey (non-human primate), raccoon,
skunk, fox, wolf, poisonous snake, leopard, panther, lion, lynx, or any other
warm-blooded animal which can normally be found in the wild state.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.010)
§ 91.02 TRAPPING.
   (A)   No traps shall be used for capture of an animal within the animal
control district, other than humane live box traps. Also, no traps shall be set
when the temperature exceeds 80°F or falls below 32°F, except in an emergency
which shall be declared upon the sole discretion of the animal control officer.
   (B)   Animals captured must be returned to the owner (if known), taken to a
local veterinary clinic (if possible), relocated to another home, or humanely
disposed of.
   (C)   Traps must be checked every four hours unless they are set in such a
manner as to provide proper shelter once the animal is confined.
   (D)   Animal control officers may go onto private property, exclusive of
buildings, to remove a trapped animal which is not provided with proper
shelter.
   (E)   The final decision for placement of a trap shall be at the discretion
of the animal control officer.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.400) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 UNLAWFUL RELEASE OF ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person who is not the owner of, or does not have
charge, care, custody, or control of, any animal to set free the animals from
any enclosed area within which the animal is properly restrained, or from any
restraining device such as a leash or chain which the animal is properly
restrained.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.350) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 REMOVING DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to remove from the
streets, alleys, and public places within the animal control district all dead
dogs, cats, and other animals, and to further keep records to include location
and description of any such dead animal, and shall notify the owner if known.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner to dispose of his or her own animals
from his or her private property.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.360) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 RABBITS AND PIGEONS.
   Rabbits and pigeons are allowed within the animal control district, provided
that they meet the following requirements.
   (A)   The animals belong to the individuals owning or renting the property
upon which they are kept.
   (B)   The enclosure, fence, or pen in which the animals are kept shall be at
least 20 feet from all neighboring residences, unless the owners of said
residences waive the requirement in writing.
   (C)   The animals shall be confined, constrained, or in the supervision and
control of their owners or keepers at all times.
   (D)   The fence, pen, or enclosure shall be kept in good repair.
   (E)   The animals are kept for only the purpose of education, science,
companionship, exhibitions, or personal consumption.
   (F)   Animals shall not be allowed to make loud or incessant noise which may
be annoying or discomforting to neighbors in close proximity.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.340) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 WILD ANIMALS; WOLF HYBRIDS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, or care for any
wild animals or exotic pets within the animal control district, except that
this section shall not apply to the keeping of small cage birds or aquatic
animals, amphibians or non-poisonous reptilian animals, or such small rodents
as hamsters guinea pigs or gerbils, solely as pets, and not to any legally
incorporated college, university, or school.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.450)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, or care for any
wolf hybrid. If a wolf hybrid, vaccinated or not, bites someone, it shall be
considered a non-vaccinate.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.460)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 CATS.
   (A)   Cats running at large; nuisance.
      (1)   Cats are not prohibited from running at large unless they are
determined to be a nuisance animal by a Town Court Judge after the signing of a
formal complaint/citation with the Town Police Department.
      (2)   If a cat is determined to be a nuisance animal, it is prohibited
from running at large, and the owner or person in control or care of the cat
shall be subject to the same provisions as set forth in §
91.30(A) and all fines related thereto.
   (B)   Animal nuisances defined. Cat owners or those persons having the
control or care of a cat shall exercise the control over their animals
necessary to prevent the animals from becoming a public nuisance by any
excessive or continuous noise caused by the animal; any chasing of vehicles,
bicycles, or people; any attacking of any other domesticated animal; any
trespassing upon public or private property; and any cat that is free roaming
and is not altered (spayed or neutered), all of which shall be considered a
public nuisance for the purposes and intent of this section.
   (C)   Unlawful conduct; stray or homeless cat.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to feed a stray or homeless cat
without taking full responsibility for the cat by providing the cat with
continued humane treatment, which shall include proper food, consumable
unfrozen water, shelter, veterinarian care, rabies vaccinations, and altering
the cat.
      (2)   It shall not be unlawful for a person to feed a stray or homeless
cat while using a humane trap or to sustain a cat for transport to a veterinary
clinic during those periods of time outside of normal business hours.
   (D)   Licensing for cats.
      (1)   (a)   It is unlawful for any person owning, keeping, harboring or
having the care, custody, and control of any animal over three months of age,
within the town, not to obtain a license as provided for in this chapter for
the animal.
         (b)   This requirement does not apply to animals whose owners are not
residents of the town if such animals are not kept in the town any longer than
30 days, and while in the town such animals are kept under restraint and
complete control.
      (2)   No license shall be issued under the provisions of this chapter
unless the applicant therefor has first provided to the licensing authority a
certificate of rabies vaccination issued by a currently licensed veterinarian
of the United States, showing that such animal sought to be licensed has,
within one year past and immediately preceding the date of application for the
license, been vaccinated for rabies.
      (3)   A license shall be issued after compliance with all provisions of
this chapter and the payment of a $5 fee for each animal.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.470) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 STOCK ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to own, harbor, or
care for any stock within the animal control district. This section shall
include but not be limited to horses, cattle, swine, goats, or sheep.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.370)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner or keeper of any stock to allow or permit
such stock to be at large within the animal control district.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.380)
   (C)   Animal control officers have the authority to take possession of and
impound any stock found to be at large within the animal control district. Any
stock captured by the animal control officer may be impounded at the town’s
Animal Control Facility or may be placed in the custody of another agency or
person for the purpose of housing and caring for such animals. The owner of
such animals shall be required to pay all costs of housing and care prior to
the release of such animals back to his or her custody.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.390)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 FOWL.
   (A)   (1)   Restrictions on domestic fowl. It is unlawful for any person,
firm, or corporation to own, keep, harbor, or care for any domestic fowl
(except chickens and ducks) within the animal control district. This division
(A)(1) prohibits fowl to include but not be limited to turkeys, geese,
peacocks, or guinea fowl.
      (2)   Keeping of chickens/ducks and the amount.
         (a)   Roosters are allowed by this chapter and are counted in the
maximum number of chickens per lot size.
         (b)   Chickens/ducks (and the number of) shall be restricted by the
following guidelines:
 
Minimum Lot Size Number of Fowl
25 ft. x 140 ft. 4 fowl maximum
50 ft. x 140 ft. 5 fowl maximum
60 ft. x 120 ft. 6 fowl maximum
 
         (c)   Chickens and ducks as pets and for egg production in the town
limits shall be for noncommercial use. The keeping of chickens and ducks for
meat production and on-site slaughtering shall not be allowed.
            1.   If the applicant is not the owner of the property, the
applicant must acquire written permission from the owner for the intended use
and submit same with the required permit for having chickens and or ducks.
            2.   The application fee is $50, submitted with the application
permit, and there is a yearly license fee of $25 due on yearly renewal and
inspection of premises.
      (3)   Coops and enclosures. Chickens and ducks shall be kept within a
coop and enclosure at all times. Coops shall provide a minimum of two square
feet per animal, shall be lined with organic bedding material (e.g., hay,
litter, sawdust, and the like), and shall provide sufficient ventilation.
Enclosures must provide a penned area space of eight square feet per animal.
         (a)   Coops and enclosures must be located a minimum of 20 feet from
any inhabited building or any portion of a habitable building. Coops must also
be ten feet from property lines. Coops and enclosures must conform to all
regulations pertaining to accessory buildings.
         (b)   The coop and enclosure and chickens/ducks therein shall not
disturb neighboring residents due to noise, order, damage, or threats to public
health. Coops and enclosures shall be constructed and maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition.
      (4)   Additional requirements.
         (a)   Feed shall be stored indoors in secured containers to prevent
the intrusion of rodents and non-household animals.
         (b)   Refuse from the chickens and or ducks (includes feces, bedding
material, and associated debris) shall be disposed of on a weekly basis. The
use of chicken feces as a fertilizing material is allowed for the applicant’s
own use but is not allowed to be stored or accumulated on the property. The use
of chicken manure as a fertilizer shall be discontinued if noxious odors are
reported and substantiated by the Chief of Police or another town official.
Upon notification by the Chief of Police via citation, or any other town
official or resident complaint having concerns pertaining to noise, noxious
odors, or any other condition affecting the health and public safety of the
residents of the neighborhood, an investigation shall be done and, if
necessary, a citation shall be issued with Court action.
         (c)   No dog or cat that kills a chicken, hen, or duck will, for that
reason alone, be considered a dangerous or aggressive animal, and therefore not
liable for criminal nor civil damages.
      (5)   Preventative action. In order to avoid complaints being filed or
difficulties during the approval process and hearing with the Town Council for
the permit, it is required that anyone filing for this chicken permit provide
written letters of support from abutting property neighbors.
      (6)   Coop or henhouse building requirements.
         (a)   The materials used in the making a henhouse/coop shall be
uniform for each element of the structure, such that the walls are made of the
same material, the roof has the same shingles or other covering, and any
windows or openings are constructed using the same materials.
         (b)   All enclosures for the keeping of chickens shall be constructed
and maintained as to prevent rodents or other pests from being harbored
underneath, inside, or within the walls of the enclosure. The coop must be
impermeable to rodents, wild birds, and predators, including dogs and cats. All
enclosed pens must be kept dry, well ventilated, and in sanitary condition at
all times, and must be cleaned on a regular basis to prevent offensive odors.
         (c)   Adequate shelter, care, and control of the chickens are
required. Any person allowed to keep chickens under this division (A) shall
comply with all the provisions and definitions of the chapter regarding care,
shelter, sanitation, health, rodent control, cruelty, neglect, noise,
reasonable control, and any other requirements pertaining to adequate care and
control of animals in the town.
      (7)   Chicken litter and dead chickens. Chicken litter and waste shall be
disposed of. Also, any dead chickens shall not be deposited in any trash
dumpster (TDS).
(Prior Code, § 6.04.230)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner or keeper of any domestic fowl, or his or
her agents, to allow or permit such fowl to be at large within the animal
control district.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.240)
   (C)   Animal control officers have the authority to take possession of any
fowl found to be at large within the animal control district. Any fowl captured
by the animal control officer may be impounded at the town’s Animal Control
Facility or may be placed in the custody of another agency or person for the
purpose of housing and care prior to the release of such animals back to his or
her custody.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.250)
Penalty, see §
91.99
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 91.20 ANIMAL ADOPTION; POLICY AND PROCEDURE.
   Adoption of any animal shall be according to the policy and procedure of the
impoundment facility, which is selected by the town.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.030)
§ 91.21 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS.
   (A)   The animal control officer shall enforce this chapter and shall
provide all impounding animals with suitable care, feed, water, and veterinary
attention while so confined.
   (B)   The animal control officer shall not entice any animal off the owner’s
premises. The animal control officer may go upon any public property to take
into custody any animal suspected of biting a person. The animal control
officer may go upon private property when in fresh pursuit of an animal if the
officer observed the violation.
   (C)   The animal control officer shall keep an accurate record of all
impounded or surrendered animals confined in the Town Animal Shelter. Such
record shall include the date of impoundment and the following (if known): sex,
breed, color, age, inoculation and neutering history, and other pertinent facts
which may assist in identification or adoption of the animal. At the time of
disposal of the animal, the animal control officer shall enter the date, method
of disposal and fee charged, name, address, and phone number of the person
receiving such animal, and other information required by the current town form.
   (D)   The animal control officer may seize and impound any animal at large
which has committed, in the presence of the animal control officer, an act
which is defined as a public nuisance. If an animal is injured and the owner
cannot be immediately located, the animal control officer shall have authority
in the owner’s absence to contact a licensed veterinarian for all necessary and
reasonable care for such injured animal.
   (E)   Upon the veterinarian’s recommendation, the animal control officer may
authorize euthanasia. All reasonable costs incurred for the treatment of the
animal shall be reimbursed to the town by the owner. No animal may be
repossessed by the owner until such costs have been reimbursed to the town.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.040) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER.
   (A)   (1)   The Animal Control Shelter which is notified, or to which an
animal is delivered, shall keep a record of each animal, giving a description,
the date of impoundment or notification, and the disposition of the animal.
      (2)   The Town Animal Control Facility is not required to release the
names of the adopters of unclaimed animals.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.050)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to break into the Animal Control Shelter
or vehicle; or turn loose or otherwise release any animal impounded therein; or
hinder, obstruct, or prevent the animal control officer from impounding any
animal liable to be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.110)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to or in lieu of impounding a dog found at large, or
in violation of any of the sections listed in this chapter, the animal control
officer or police officer may issue to the known owner, or his or her agent, of
such animal a citation or notice of ordinance violation.
      (2)   A criminal warrant may be initiated before the Municipal or County
Judge in the event the owner or his or her agent fails to appear as stated in
the citation or notice, or fails to post an appropriate bond in lieu thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.070)
   (B)   Whenever an animal control officer or any police officer observes or
has reasonable cause to believe that a person has violated the provisions of
this chapter, such officer is authorized to prepare a written citation
containing a notice to appear in Municipal Court. The citation, at a minimum,
shall be written on a form which notifies the person of the offense with which
he or she is charged and the time and place where the person must appear to
answer the charge.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.430)
§ 91.24 CITATION; PROCEDURE.
   Every animal control officer, upon issuing a citation herein authorized,
shall deposit the original of the citation within the Municipal Court, and
shall issue a copy of the same to be given to the person against whom the
violation is charged. Upon deposit of the original citation with the Court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in Court or other official action by
the Judge of the Court, including forfeiture of the bail, or by the deposit of
sufficient bail with or payment of the fine to the Municipal Court by the
person to whom the citation was sworn to, as required under the general laws of
the state in respect to a complaint charging a commission of the offense
alleged in the citation to have been committed; then the citation, when filed
with the Municipal Court, shall be deemed a lawful complaint for the purpose of
prosecution under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.120)
§ 91.25 ENFORCEMENT; AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the sworn officers of
the Town Police Department and animal control officer in the performance of his
or her duties, or to fail to obey the lawful order of any animal control
officer.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.210) Penalty, see § 31.99
§ 91.26 ABATEMENT OF CRUELTY.
   (A)   An animal control officer may lawfully interfere to prevent the
perpetration of any act of cruelty upon an animal in his or her presence.
   (B)   (1)   A law enforcement officer or animal control officer may remove,
shelter, and care for any animal(s) found to be cruelly exposed to the weather,
starved or denied water, neglected, abandoned, or otherwise treated in a cruel
manner, and may deliver the animal(s) to another person to be cared for and
given medical attention if necessary.
      (2)   In all cases, the owner (if known) shall immediately be notified,
and such officer or other person having possession of the animal(s) shall have
a lien thereon for its care, keeping, and medical attention, and expense of
notice. If the owner or custodian is unknown and cannot with reasonable effort
be ascertained, or does not within five days after notice redeem the animal by
paying the expenses incurred, it may be treated as abandoned and dealt with as
provided in §
91.32.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever in the opinion of any law enforcement officer, animal
control officer, or county health officer, any animal is suffering from
distemper, parvovirus, or other serious disease or is severely maimed and
suffering from injury, it shall be lawful for such officer to kill such animal
after consulting with a licensed veterinarian if the animal is licensed or
tattooed, and attempts to notify its owner shall be made before the animal is
killed.
      (2)   The officer or representative mentioned in division (C)(1) above
may kill an animal without consulting a licensed veterinarian or an owner if it
is considered an emergency situation to relieve the animal from suffering. The
owner thereof shall not recover damages for the killing of such animal unless
he or she shall prove that such killing was unwarranted.
   (D)   If an animal is restrained or confined without food, consumable water,
or proper attention, the town may enter into and upon any property where the
animal is restrained or confined and supply it with necessary food, water, and
attention, so long as it remains there. If necessary for the health of the
animal, the town may remove the animal and not be liable for any action for the
entry or for taking possession. If the town reasonably believed that a
violation of this section will continue, the town is authorized and empowered
to remove and impound the animal. Additionally, the town is authorized and
empowered to remove and impound any animal in plain view from immediate life
threatening, exigent circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.140)
§ 91.27 FEES.
   All licenses fees, impoundment fees, boarding fees, adoption fees, and other
revenue received by the Town Animal Control Shelter shall be deposited into the
town’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.220)
§ 91.28 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having
custody of any dog over six months of age within the animal control district,
to not obtain a license as provided for in this chapter for the dog. This
requirement does not apply to dogs whose owners are not residents of the animal
control district if such animal is not kept in town any longer than 30 days,
and while in town such animals are kept under restraint.
      (1)   No license shall be issued under the provision of this chapter
unless the applicant therefor has first exhibited to the licensing authority a
certificate of rabies vaccination issued by a licensed veterinarian of this
state or another state, showing that such dog sought to be licensed has, within
one year past and immediately preceding the date of application for license,
been vaccinated for rabies.
      (2)   Dogs must wear license tags at all times when off the premises of
the owner.
      (3)   The licensing authority shall maintain a public record of all tags
issued.
      (4)   A license shall be issued after payment of a $10 fee for all
unaltered dogs and a $5 fee for all altered dogs.
      (5)   A replacement tag may be obtained upon payment of a $1 replacement
fee after proof has been shown that a current license was purchased previously.
If there is a change in ownership of the dog during the license year, the new
owner may have the current license transferred to his or her name upon payment
of $1.
      (6)   No person shall use any license for any dog other than the dog for
which it was issued.
      (7)   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
expire on the January 1 of each odd-numbered year. The effective date of any
license issued shall be January 1 of the preceding odd- numbered year.
Notwithstanding the definite term of the license, the same may be issued at any
time of the year.
      (8)   No person other than the owner shall remove the collar or license
tag from the licensed animal.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.290)
   (B)   The license fee shall be waived under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The applicant is the owner or keeper of an authorized police dog;
and
      (2)   The applicant is totally or partially blind, totally or partially
deaf, or otherwise physically disabled and is the owner of a guide dog or
service dog.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.300)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.29 KENNELS.
   (A)   License expiration and renewal.
      (1)   Any license issued under the provisions of this section shall be
issued at any time during the year and shall expire one year after the date of
issue, or on July 1 in the year after the date of issue, whichever period is
shorter, at which time said license shall be renewed upon payment of the
required fees.
      (2)   Any person obtaining a kennel license under this provision of this
section shall pay the sum of $75 to the Town Clerk’s office.
   (B)   Enclosures.
      (1)   Any person holding or who is required to obtain a kennel license
shall provide each adult dog over the age of six months with a structurally
sound, moistureproof and windproof enclosed shelter large enough to accommodate
and keep the animal reasonably clean, dry, and comfortable, and which provides
adequate drainage such that the animal is free to walk or lie down without
coming in contact with standing water.
      (2)   The enclosure shall be constructed of materials and in a manner to
minimize the risk of injury to the animal and the risk of the animal’s escape
in accordance to §
91.52.
   (C)   Maintenance and inspection. The premises and enclosures of all persons
holding or required to obtain a kennel license shall be maintained in a
reasonably sanitary condition which shall minimize the risk of any animal
contracting diseases or parasites, or of causing unreasonable disturbance or
offense to persons within the town. The premises shall be subject to inspection
by the town at all reasonable times without prior notice.
   (D)   Revocation of license. Upon the revocation of any person’s kennel
license or kennel license privilege, the Court may order the impoundment of
such person’s dogs at such person’s expense, pending compliance with the
Court’s orders relating to removal of any one or more of said dogs from the
town.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.330) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.30 DOGS AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner of any dog, or his or her agent, to allow
or permit such dog to be at large, whether licensed or unlicensed.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.170)
   (B)   Animal control officers have the authority to take possession of and
impound any dog at large.
      (1)   When in pursuit of any dog at large, the officer may go onto
private property, exclusive of buildings, and take such animal into possession
for impoundment. Such officer may utilize a tranquilizer dart if necessary in
order to capture an animal that cannot be captured by any other means.
      (2)   No person may capture, restrain, harbor, or take possession of a
dog not owned by such person, unless the person shall notify or deliver the
animal to the Animal Control Shelter within 24 hours. This does not apply to
persons who take possession of a dog at the owner’s request.
      (3)   If a dog is impounded at the Animal Control Shelter with a valid
license attached to its collar, the animal control officer will notify the
owner by phone, by mail, or in person to the address currently listed on the
license receipt.
      (4)   Dogs impounded at the Animal Control Shelter shall be held no less
than five days from the date of impoundment, unless euthanasia prior to that
time is deemed necessary or appropriate by the shelter manager or veterinarian
advising the animal shelter personnel, before being placed for adoption, and no
less than ten days from the date of impoundment before being humanely disposed
of.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.180)
   (C)   Any impounded female, while in heat, shall be placed in a segregated
enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.280)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 IMPOUNDMENT RELEASE; RECLAMATION.
   (A)   In the event the owner does not claim a dog within ten days, the owner
will lose all rights of ownership to such dog.
      (1)   Any dog impounded and the owner being known to the Police
Department shall be billed for the impoundment and boarding fees until such dog
is reclaimed or destroyed.
      (2)   Any dog not reclaimed by the owner within the period prescribed in
this division (A) shall be deemed abandoned and shall be placed for adoption in
a suitable home or humanely destroyed. In disposing of unclaimed animals, it
shall be lawful for the town or Animal Shelter to surrender them to the
hospital or reputable institution of learning for use in education.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.260)
   (B)   (1)   The owner of an impounded animal shall pay the Town Animal
Control Facility as follows:
 
An impound fee for apprehending and impounding any dog           $5 fee
If the same dog or another dog from the same household should be -
apprehended and impounded:
Within one year of the first dog                                 $20 fee
Within one year of the second dog                                $50 fee
Notes to Table:
The owner of an impounded animal shall pay the Town Animal Control
Facility a boarding fee of $5 per day, or any portion of a day, that the
animal is impounded.
 
      (2)   The Town Animal Control Facility may release an impounded dog to
its owner or representative of the owner if:
         (a)   The owner or representative presents a valid form of
identification;
         (b)   The owner or representative presents evidence that the dog is
licensed. If the animal is not licensed, the owner must purchase a license only
after proving evidence that the dog has been vaccinated against rabies as
prescribed in §
91.53(A);
         (c)   If the owner or keeper does not have a current rabies
vaccination certificate, the owner or keeper may be required to place a cash
deposit of $50 with the Animal Control Facility to be refunded upon presenting,
within five business days thereafter, proof of current rabies vaccination and
license; and
         (d)   The owner or representative pays the boarding and impoundment
fees or fines for the animal.
      (3)   The Town Animal Control Facility may release a dog to a person
other than the owner if:
         (a)   The owner does not claim an impounded dog within five days; and/
or
         (b)   The person to whom the dog is to be released has filled out the
necessary adoption application, returned it for approval by the Town Animal
Control Facility, has been approved to adopt by the Animal Control Facility,
and abides by the Facility’s rules.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.270)
§ 91.32 FAILURE TO CONTROL DOG; DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his or her
dog(s) to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance as defined in §
91.01.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner which is the subject of three violations of §§
91.30(A) and
91.50(A) within a two-year period shall be, on the third time, declared a
habitual public nuisance, and upon determination thereof by the Court, the
owner shall be required to have the dog destroyed or relocated outside the
animal control district.
      (2)   (a)   The owner shall have ten days from the date of notification
to relocate such dog outside the animal control district and provide proof of
such relocation.
         (b)   At the end of this period, if the dog is not relocated, the dog
shall be humanely disposed of by the law enforcement authority or the animal
control officer at the owner’s or keeper’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.160) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 SURRENDERING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any dog (animal) surrendered by its owner to the town’s chosen animal
shelter shall be held no less than five days, providing the animal is healthy,
adequate cage space is available, and a surrender fee (if required) has been
paid.
   (B)   As a condition of acceptance of a surrendered animal, the animal
control officer shall require identification of the person surrendering the
animal.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.100)
**** CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS ****
§ 91.45 MOTOR ACCIDENTS; RESPONSIBILITY.
   The driver of any motor vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to a domestic animal shall immediately and safely stop and render such
assistance as may be possible and shall take reasonable steps to notify the
owner of such animal or give notice of such accident to the local Police
Department or Animal Control Department.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.46 WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of a dog to keep his or
her property free and clear of animal waste so as not to present a potential
danger to the public health, as determined by the county health officer. If the
determination is made that a situation exists which is potentially dangerous to
the public health, a notice of ordinance violation may be issued.
   (B)   The owner of every dog shall be responsible for the removal of any
excreta deposited by his or her animal on public walks, recreation areas, or
private property.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.060) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.47 ANIMALS IN VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall leave a dog unattended in the bed of a pickup
truck in a public parking area unless the dog is restrained in such a manner as
to prevent the dog from making physical contact with a pedestrian who is
passing the truck in a place where the pedestrian is legally entitled to be.
      (2)   It is considered cruel and therefore unlawful for a person to leave
a dog, cat, or any animal unattended in a motor vehicle when the temperature is
70°F or above unless, in the opinion of the officer, adequate ventilation and
water is provided.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.080)
   (B)   (1)   If a police officer or animal control officer observes a vehicle
parked within the animal control district in which domestic or wild animals are
confined with no means of ventilation or water, and circumstances are such that
the health or safety of the animal(s) are threatened, the police officer or
animal control officer shall immediately attempt to locate the vehicle owner or
person responsible to provide ventilation and water, or remove such animal from
the vehicle.
      (2)   If unable to locate the vehicle owner or person responsible within
a reasonable amount of time, the police officer or animal control officer shall
be empowered to use whatever means are reasonably necessary to enter the
vehicle to preclude serious harm to the animal. No officer or agent taking
action under this division (B) shall be liable for damage reasonably necessary
to rescue the confined animal.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.090)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.48 CRUELTY; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals shall be prohibited within the animal control
district.
   (B)   No person shall override, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork,
torture, or torment an animal or deprive an animal of necessary sustenance.
   (C)   No person shall unnecessarily or cruelly beat, mutilate, or kill an
animal unless specifically authorized by law.
   (D)   No person shall cause, instigate, be a spectator at, or permit a
dogfight, cockfight, bullfight (bloodless or otherwise), or other combat
involving animals.
   (E)   No person shall abandon any animal. All animals which are deemed
abandoned shall be considered surrendered to the town for impoundment,
adoption, or disposal.
   (F)   No person shall fail to provide his or her animal with sufficient good
and wholesome food and water that is able to be consumed and is unfrozen,
proper shelter to protect it from the weather (including sunlight), veterinary
care when needed to prevent suffering, and with humane care and treatment.
   (G)   It is unlawful to annoy, bait, harass, torment, or tease any confined
or chained animal.
   (H)   Unless specifically authorized by law, no person shall willfully:
      (1)   Maim or disfigure any domestic or wild animal; or
      (2)   Administer poison, cause to be ingested any foreign object to any
such animal, or expose a poisonous substance with the intent that it shall be
taken by any animal, except pests of public health concern.
   (I)   The provisions of this section do not and will not in any way limit
the right of a police officer or animal control officer to kill any domestic or
wild animal if such officer determines that there is a reasonable danger to the
public safety.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.130) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.49 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   Upon conviction of an owner, by a court of competent jurisdiction, of a
vicious dog violation, such dog shall be considered a “dangerous dog”. When a
dangerous dog is allowed to remain within the animal control district, the
following requirements shall be enforced.
   (A)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit such dog to go beyond the
property of the owner or keeper unless such dog is securely muzzled and
physically restrained with a chain having a minimum tensile strength of 300
pounds and not exceeding three feet in length.
   (B)   When off the premises of the owner or keeper, such dog shall be
accompanied by a competent person physically capable of handling such dog.
   (C)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or dangerous animal run
area must have all sides six-feet high and a secure top. If the pen structure
has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground
no less than one foot.
   (D)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall post warnings signs on the property
where the dog is kept that are clearly visible and that inform persons that a
dangerous dog is on the property.
   (E)   No person shall possess with the intent to sell, offer for sale,
breed, or buy or attempt to buy within the animal control district, any
dangerous dog.
   (F)   (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately seized and impounded by an
animal control officer or police officer if the owner is in violation of this
section.
      (2)   The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable cost incurred by
the town for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by the animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the town
is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section. Any such dog shall
be retained by the town pending the order of an appropriate court.
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the town to
dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
   (H)   Any dangerous dog found upon any property, public or private, not the
premises of the owner may, if such animal cannot be safely taken up and
impounded by reasonable means, be destroyed by the animal control or police
officer.
   (I)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall notify the town, within one hour of
learning of the animal’s escape or release, that the animal is loose,
unconfined, has attacked another animal or a human being, or has died or been
given away.
      (1)   If the dangerous dog has been given away, immediately upon the
conveyance, the owner or keeper shall provide the Animal Control Shelter with
the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner.
      (2)   Upon conveyance, the new owner, if he or she resides within the
animal control district, will be obligated to comply with the requirements of
this chapter and section.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.150) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.50 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for an owner or keeper of a dog to allow or permit such
dog to cause serious annoyance or disturbance to any person or persons by
frequent and habitual howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.190)
   (B)   (1)   If the owner or keeper of a dog declared to be disturbing the
peace, as provided in division (A) above, refuses to quiet the dog after being
duly notified of the same, it shall be the duty of the Police Department to
apprehend the dog and to cause such dog to be impounded in the Animal Control
Shelter.
      (2)   Upon the capture and impounding of any dog, it shall be the duty of
the officer to notify the owner thereof, if such owner can be ascertained,
which notice may be given.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.200)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.51 MAINTAINING YARDS; PENS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to keep, use, or
maintain any yard, pen, or place on his or her premises or premises under his
or her control, within or near the animal control district, in which a number
of cattle, swine, or other animals may be kept in such a manner as to become
offensive to any person residing within the vicinity or annoying to the public.
If the determination is made that a situation exists which is offensive to
someone residing within the vicinity, a notice of ordinance violation may be
issued.
   (B)   An enclosure is unclean when it contains more than one day’s
eliminations of each animal enclosed therein.
   (C)   An enclosure is unhealthy when it is likely to cause illness or injury
to the animals.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.310) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.52 PROPER FOOD, SHELTER, AND CARE.
   (A)   Each animal shall, at suitable intervals and a least once every 24
hours, receive a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species’
physical condition and age, sufficient to maintain an adequate level of
nutrition for the animal.
   (B)   Each animal shall, at suitable intervals and at least once every 24
hours, receive an adequate supply of clean, fresh, consumable water for the
species’ physical condition and age, and such water shall be provided either
free flowing or in a receptacle. If water pans or dishes are used, the pans or
dishes shall have weighted bottoms or be mounted or secured in a manner to
prevent tipping and in a manner to prevent the water from freezing and being
unable to be consumed.
   (C)   Each animal shall have convenient access to shelter throughout the
year. Any artificial shelter shall be structurally sound and maintained in good
repair to protect the animal from injury from the elements, and shall be of
sufficient size to permit the animal to enter, stand, turn around, and lie down
in a natural manner.
      (1)   Any shelter which does not protect the animal from temperature
extremes or precipitation, or which does not provide adequate ventilation or
drainage, shall not comply with this section.
      (2)   This shelter, any other spaces accessible to the animal, and all
bedding for the animal shall be maintained in a manner which minimizes the risk
to the animal for contracting disease, being injured, or becoming infested with
parasites.
   (D)   Each animal shall receive care and medical treatment for debilitating
injuries, parasites, and disease, sufficient to maintain the animal in good
health and minimize suffering.
   (E)   The living area for each animal being kept, confined, or restrained
shall have adequate drainage such that the animal shall be free to walk or lie
down without coming in contact with standing water.
   (F)   If any animal is restricted by a chain, leash, wire cable, electronic
collar, underground electronic fences, or similar restraint, such restraint
shall be designed and placed to prevent choking or strangulation or
entanglement with other objects or other animals. Such restrain shall be no
less than ten feet in length.
   (G)   (1)   If any animal is kept in an enclosure, that enclosure shall be
constructed of material and in a manner to minimize the risk of injury to the
animal, and shall encompass sufficient usable space to keep the animal in good
condition.
      (2)   When a dog is confined outside a residence, the following minimum
requirements shall be used:
 
Size of Dog Pen Size of Dog                         Measurements
Extra large     Over 25 in. at withers or over 75   6 ft. x 8 ft. (48 sq. ft.)
                lbs.
Large           Over 20 in. up to 25 in., not over  5 ft. x 8 ft. (40 sq. ft.)
                75 lbs.
Medium          Over 12 in. up to 20 in., not over  5 ft. x 7 ft. (35 sq. ft.)
                50 lbs.
Small           12 in. or less at withers, not over 5 ft. x 6 ft. (30 sq. ft.)
                20 lbs.
Notes to Table:
An additional 16 square feet shall be required for each dog sharing the pen
with another animal.
The minimum pen size excludes the shelter.
 
   (H)   The Town Animal Control Shelter shall be exempt from the pen size
requirements under this section since the intent is only to hold animals for a
maximum of ten days.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.320) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.53 VACCINATIONS; RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   The owner of any dog shall have the dog vaccinated against rabies
within 30 days after the dog reaches the age of six months.
      (1)   If the owner obtains the dog or brings the dog in to the animal
control district after the dog reaches six months of age, the owner of the dog
shall have the dog vaccinated against rabies within 30 days after the dog was
obtained or brought into the town animal control district, unless the dog has
been vaccinated as evidenced by a current certificate of rabies vaccination
from this state or another state.
      (2)   The owner of a dog shall have a dog vaccinated against rabies by a
veterinarian before the date that the immunization expires, as stated on the
certificate of vaccination, or if no date is specified, within two years after
that previous vaccination.
   (B)   The owner shall pay the cost of the rabies vaccination.
   (C)   A law enforcement officer, animal control officer, county health
officer, or his or her designee may order a dog quarantined if the officer has
reason to believe the animal bit a person, is infected with rabies, or has been
in contact with a rabid animal.
      (1)   Any dog, if not currently vaccinated against rabies, which inflicts
upon any person a wound breaking the skin, shall be impounded within 24 hours
at the isolation facility at the owner’s choosing for a period of no less than
ten days. If a quarantine cannot be imposed because the dog cannot be captured,
the officer may kill the animal. The officer may kill a dog as a last resort or
if the owner agrees. The officer shall attempt to kill the animal in a humane
manner and in a manner which avoids damage to the head. After the animal is
dead, the head is to be severed from the body and sent to the state laboratory
for examination.
      (2)   In addition, a law enforcement officer, animal control officer,
county health officer, or his or her designee may kill a dog and have it
examined for rabies if the dog has not been vaccinated as provided in division
(A) above, if he or she has reason to believe the dog has been exposed to or in
physical contact with a rabid animal, and he or she has reason to believe the
dog has been in physical contact with humans.
   (D)   An officer who orders the dog to be quarantined shall deliver the
animal or shall order the animal to be delivered to an isolation facility as
soon as possible, but no longer than 24 hours after that original order is
issued. If the animal is currently immunized against rabies and was not off the
premises of the owner at the time of the bite, the officer may order the animal
quarantined on the owner’s premises. If such animal is found outside the
owner’s residence, it shall be taken and confined at an isolation facility of
the owner’s choosing for the remainder of the confinement period.
   (E)   The custodian of an isolation facility shall keep the dog which is
ordered to be quarantined in strict isolation under the supervision of a
veterinarian. Supervision of a veterinarian for an animal ordered quarantined
on the owner’s premises shall include examination by a veterinarian within 24
hours of the bite and on the tenth day of quarantine. If the observation period
has not been extended and if the veterinarian certifies that the dog has not
exhibited any symptoms of rabies, the animal may be released from quarantine at
the end of ten-day observation period.
   (F)   If the veterinarian determines that a dog exhibits symptoms of rabies
during the original or extended observation period, the veterinarian shall
notify the county health officer and the officer who ordered the animal
quarantined, and the officer or veterinarian shall humanely destroy the animal
and have the head examined. If the dog has bitten a person, the County Health
Department shall notify the person’s physician.
   (G)   The owner of an animal is responsible for any expenses incurred in
connection with the keeping of the animal quarantined in an isolation facility,
supervision and examination of the animal by a veterinarian, preparation of the
carcass for laboratory examination, and the fee for examination. If the owner
is unknown, the town is responsible for these expenses.
   (H)   Any person having knowledge that an animal has bitten a human shall
immediately report that incident to the animal control officer or the county
health officer, together with the name and address of the person or persons
bitten (if known).
(Prior Code, § 6.04.410) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.54 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal that constitutes a physical threat to any human being or to
any other animal by biting, clawing, attacking, lunging toward, growling,
barking, baring teeth, or otherwise acts in a menacing manner toward or at any
human being or other animal, or if any of the aforementioned acts or conduct is
attempted toward or at any human being or other animal, it is a violation of
this section.
   (B)   No animal may be declared a vicious animal if the animal was
protecting or defending a human being within the immediate vicinity of the
animal from unjust attack or assault.
   (C)   No person shall own or harbor any vicious animal for the purpose of
fighting, or use any animal for the purpose of causing or encouraging
unprovoked attacks upon human beings or domestic animals.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to dogs owned by law enforcement
agencies.
   (E)   The owner of any dog deemed vicious by a court of competent
jurisdiction shall have that animal spayed or neutered, at the owners expense,
within 30 days of the determination that the dog is vicious (if such animal is
not currently spayed or neutered), and shall show proof of such to the court
within 45 days of the determination.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.420) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), a CONVICTION means a
finding of guilty by a court after trial, or a plea of guilty or no contest to
the offense charged.
      (2)   If any violation is continuing, each day’s violation shall be
deemed to constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Upon a conviction for a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, a person shall be fined not more than $750, plus any applicable court
costs.
      (4)   All previous records of the violator shall be considered by the
court in regard to determination of the penalty.
      (5)   In addition to the penalties cited above and in this chapter, the
Municipal Judge shall be empowered to order any dog destroyed after the dog has
been deemed vicious by the court. If the judge orders the specific disposition
of the animal, such order shall be carried out immediately.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.440)
   (B)   The penalty and violation for §
91.01(A)(7) shall be a misdemeanor, a fine of $750, and revocation of permit
and license to have chickens.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.230)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
91.29, or who shall attempt to evade any of the provisions of §
91.29, shall be deemed guilty, be fined any sum not to exceed the sum of $100,
and such person’s kennel license be revoked for not more than two years from
the date of conviction.
      (2)   Upon the second conviction, such person shall be fined any sum not
less than $100 and not greater than $300, and such person’s kennel license and
privilege to obtain any kennel license shall be revoked for not less than one
year and not more than two years from the date of conviction.
      (3)   Upon the third or any subsequent conviction hereof, such person
shall be fined any sum not less than $150 and not greater than $750, and such
person’s kennel license and privilege to obtain any kennel license shall be
revoked for not less than two years and not more than four years from the date
of conviction.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.330)
   (D)   (1)   An owner who refuses to have a dog vaccinated against rabies as
required in §
91.53 may, in addition to the other penalties, be required to forfeit not less
than $25 nor more than $100.
      (2)   An owner who refuses to comply with an order issued under §
91.53 to deliver an animal to an officer, isolation facility, or veterinarian,
or who does not comply with the conditions of an order that an animal be
quarantined, shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $750, plus
court costs.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.410)
   (E)   (1)   The owner or custodian of said vicious animal described in §
91.54 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined no more than $750 plus $10 in
court costs if convicted.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a person for harboring a vicious dog in
violation of §
91.54, if it shall appear to the court that the dog is living, the court may,
in addition to punishment provided for violation of §
91.54, order the animal control officer or any officer to forthwith cause the
dog to be humanely destroyed, and for this purpose any such officer charged
with such duty shall have the right to enter upon any premises within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.420)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   License required generally
   
110.02   Pawnbrokers; secondhand dealers
Utility Workers
   
110.15   Water treatment contractor; definition
   
110.16   License required
   
110.17   Application; fees and bonds
   
110.18   Term; renewal
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to license businesses, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-103
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any person or persons, partnership, corporation, or other entities
engaged in any of the following businesses named in this division (A) shall be
liable to the town for the sum of $25 per year, to-wit: general merchandise,
hardware, furniture, drugs and sundries, lumberyards, banks, hotels, feed
stores, meat markets, coal yards, telephone companies, printing offices,
garages, secondhand stores, bowling alleys, moving pictures, elevators,
taxicabs, undertakers, embalmers, and dray lines.
   (B)   Any person or persons, partnership, or corporation engaged in the
following businesses named in this division (B) shall be liable to the town for
the sum of $25 per year or part thereof as a license tax to be paid by May 1 of
each year to-wit: doctors, lawyers, dentists, real estate firms and dealers,
loan offices, abstractors or real estate titles, insurance agents, tire repair
shops, confectioners, barbers, photographers, boardinghouses, restaurants,
contractors and builders, tractors, retail ice sellers, chiropractors,
osteopaths, and all sales agencies exclusive of automobiles, motortrucks,
aircraft, motorcycles, tractors, adding machines, typewriters, farm lighting
plants, and other personal property of any kind, character, and description.
   (C)   Any person or persons, partnership, or corporation engaged in any of
the following businesses shall pay to the town, as a license tax, the amount
set forth after each respective business as follows:
 
Carnivals                             The sum of $50 per day payable in advance
Circuses and other exhibitions in the $25 per day payable in advance, provided
open air or tents                     that nothing herein contained shall apply
                                      to Chatauquas or charitable benefits
Itinerant or street peddlers          The sum of $25 per day payable in advance
Transient merchants                   The sum of $25 per day for the first day
                                      and $5 per day for each day thereafter
 
   (D)   The license tax herein provided shall be for the purpose of raising
revenue for the town.
   (E)   Where more than one business or occupation are combined in one
business, then one license tax imposed by this section shall be imposed, which
said tax shall be the highest tax levied against any of the businesses, trades,
and the like. Taxes levied by this section shall be in addition to license fees
and taxes levied heretofore and existing at the time the ordinance codified
herein took effect.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-19-1925) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 PAWNBROKERS; SECONDHAND DEALERS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PAWNBROKER. Any person who advances or loans money or other valuable
things on the deposit of personal property on the condition of selling the same
back at a stipulated price.
      SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person who buys, sells, exchanges, or deals in
personal property that has been previously used, broken, or disfigured, and is
not classed as antique; provided that merchants who deal in new furniture,
dishes, or other regular household furnishings accept such articles for credit
on the purchase price of new or used articles sold contemporaneously which are
of similar character to the goods so exchanged shall not be considered
SECONDHAND DEALERS.
   (B)   No person shall at any time carry on the business of a pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer without obtaining a license therefor.
   (C)   The license fees required by this section shall be as set by the
governing body from time to time.
   (D)   Pawnbroker’s licenses shall not be transferable.
   (E)   Persons holding a pawnbroker’s license and also engaged in business as
a secondhand dealer shall not be required to be licensed as a secondhand dealer
in addition to that of a pawnbroker.
   (F)   Any applicant for a pawnbroker’s license shall execute to the town a
bond in the penal sum of $1,000 conditioned that, in the conduct of such
business, he or she will respect and obey the provisions of this section and
other ordinances of the town applicable thereto, and will pay all damages that
may accrue to any person by reason of any fraud or misconduct in managing such
business.
   (G)   (1)   Every pawnbroker shall keep at his or her place of business an
accurate description of:
         (a)   All personal property, bonds, notes, and other securities
received on deposit or purchased;
         (b)   The time when they were received or purchased;
         (c)   Mentioning particularly any descriptive or identifying marks
that may be on such property, bonds, notes or other securities, together with
the name, residence, and accurate description of the person by whom they were
left; and
         (d)   Such other information as may be required by the governing body.
      (2)   Such entries must be made on the day such property is taken in,
using ink or indelible pencil, and no entry shall be erased or obliterated. All
such records shall be clean and legible.
   (H)   Every pawnbroker shall, upon request during the ordinary business
hours, submit and exhibit the records required by division (H) above to the
inspection of any law enforcement officer and permit any officer to make a copy
thereof. He or she shall also, upon request, exhibit for the inspection of any
law enforcement office any goods, personal property, bonds, notes, or other
securities that may be so received by him or her.
   (I)   No pawnbroker shall transact any such business with any person under
the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 7-11) Penalty, see §
110.99
**** UTILITY WORKERS ****
§ 110.15 WATER TREATMENT CONTRACTOR; DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, a WATER TREATMENT CONTRACTOR shall be
deemed to be any person engaged in the business of making any connections to
any water lines within the town for the purpose of installing water softeners,
underground lawn sprinkler systems, fire extinguishing sprinkler systems, or
any other connection made to any water line other than those made by a licensed
plumber.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)
§ 110.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in business as a gas pipe fitter, plumber,
electrician, or water treatment contractor in the town without first obtaining
a license.
(Prior Code, § 7-2) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 APPLICATION; FEES AND BONDS.
   (A)   (1)   Every person desiring to enter into business as a gas pipe
fitter, plumber, electrician, or water treatment contractor shall make
application to the Town Clerk for a license. Every application shall set forth
the name of the applicant and his or her qualifications, together with such
other information as may be required by the town.
      (2)   Each applicant shall submit to an examination as prescribed by the
town to determine the fitness to hold any license; provided however, that the
applicant will not be required to submit to an examination if the applicant can
produce a valid license from any of the following towns:
         (a)   Torrington, Wyoming;
         (b)   Douglas, Wyoming;
         (c)   Lingle, Wyoming;
         (d)   Wheatland, Wyoming;
         (e)   Cheyenne, Wyoming; and
         (f)   Casper, Wyoming.
(Prior Code, § 7-3)
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by a fee of $50 and a bond in
the penal sum of $50,000 or more, executed in favor of the town, conditioned
for the faithful performance of the duties for which the license is issued.
(Prior Code, § 7-4)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.18 TERM; RENEWAL.
   (A)   Upon meeting the requirements set forth in §
110.17, every successful applicant shall receive a license. All licenses issued
hereunder shall expire on December 31 of the year of issue.
(Prior Code, § 7-5)
   (B)   Any license may be renewed yearly by payment of an annual fee of $50
and a current bond in the penal sum of $50,000, executed in favor of the town,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties for which the license is
issued. Every licensee who desires to renew a license shall make application
for renewal to the Town Clerk within 30 days prior to the date of expiration of
the license to be renewed.
(Prior Code, § 7-6)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons, partnership, or corporation violating any of
the provisions of §
110.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in a sum of not more than $750 plus costs of prosecution as set
forth by the laws of the state or by rules of the Supreme Court.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-19-1925; Ord. 127, passed 8-4-1987)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Signs prohibiting peddlers and solicitors
   
111.03   Exemptions
   
111.04   Association with local dealers
   
111.05   Private residences
   
111.06   Required license
   
111.07   Filing; contents of applications
   
111.08   Fees
   
111.09   Exhibition
   
111.10   Transfer
   
111.11   Revocation
Editor’s note:
Appeal to United States Supreme Court dismissed, see case of J.L. Bunger v.
Town of Green River, Wyoming, 300 U.S. 638, 57 S. Ct. 510
Case holding that only undue or discriminatory burdens upon commerce are
forbidden by the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution, see Breard
v. City of Alexandria, Louisiana, 341 U.S. 622, 91 L.E. 1223, 71 S. Ct. 920
Case holding that ordinances barring nonresidents of state from selling by
sample and taking orders for goods without first procuring license is in
contravention of the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution, see
Clements v. Town of Casper, 4 Wyo. 494, 35 P. 472 (1894)
Case holding that taxation which leaves out-of-state sellers in the same
position as in-state sellers does not violate the Commerce Clause of the United
States Constitution, see Breard v. City of Alexandria, Louisiana, 341 U.S. 622,
91 L.E. 1223, 71 S. Ct. 920
Case holding that when local police regulation has a real relation to suitable
protection of the people and is reasonable in its requirement, it is not
invalid because it may incidentally affect interstate commerce, provided that
it does not conflict with federal statutes, see Town of Green River v. Bunger,
50 Wyo. 52, 58 P. 2d 456 (1936)
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR.
      (1)   Any individual, whether a resident of the town or not, traveling
either by foot or any type of conveyance from place to place, from house to
house, or from street to street, taking or attempting to take orders for sale
of goods, wares, and merchandise; personal property of any nature whatsoever
for future delivery; or for services to be furnished or performed in the
future, whether or not such individual has, carries, or exposes for sale a
sample of the subject of such sale, or whether he or she is collecting advance
payments on such sales or not.
      (2)   Such definition shall include any person who, for himself, herself,
or for another person, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building,
structure, tent, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop, or any other place
within the town for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders
for future delivery.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the town or not, traveling by
foot, wagon, automobile, vehicle, or any other type or conveyance from place to
place, from house to house, or from street to street carrying, conveying, or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden
truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale or
making sales, and delivering articles to purchasers; provided that one who
solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers as
a part of a scheme or design to evade the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed a PEDDLER subject to the provisions of this chapter. The word PEDDLER
shall include the words HAWKER and HUCKSTER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT.
      (1)   Any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee and
whether a resident of the town or not, who engages in a temporary business of
selling and delivering goods, wares, and merchandise; and who, in furtherance
of such purposes, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building, structure,
motor vehicle, tent, public rooms in hotels, lodging houses, apartments, shops,
or any streets, alleys, or other places for the exhibition and sale of such
goods, wares, and merchandise, either privately or at public auction; provided
that such definition shall not be construed to include any person who, while
occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock but exhibits
samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery.
      (2)   The term TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall include the terms ITINERANT
MERCHANT and ITINERANT VENDOR.
(Prior Code, § 15-1)
§ 111.02 SIGNS PROHIBITING PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, or canvasser to ring the
door bell or knock on the door of any residence, dwelling, or apartment whereon
a sign bearing the words “no peddlers” or other words of similar import is
painted, affixed, or exposed to public view, or to attempt to gain admittance
thereto, provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any
solicitor or canvasser who knocks at any door or rings any bell at the
invitation or with the consent of some member of the household at which he or
she so applied for admission.
(Prior Code, § 15-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any farmer or producer who
sells or disposes of his or her own agricultural products, including fruits or
vegetables or of beef, mutton, or pork; provided that such meats are produced
in accordance with all health regulations and laws if such merchandise is
produced by him or her in the state.
(Prior Code, § 15-3)
   (B)   No license shall be required of drummers, traveling salespersons, or
other persons engaged in soliciting or taking orders exclusively from the trade
or established wholesale or retail dealers for the delivery of goods, wares, or
merchandise by wholesale.
(Prior Code, § 15-4)
§ 111.04 ASSOCIATION WITH LOCAL DEALERS.
   Persons engaged in any business regulated by this chapter shall not be
relieved from complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of
associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer
or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as part of, or in
the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer.
(Prior Code, § 15-5)
§ 111.05 PRIVATE RESIDENCES.
   No person shall engage in the practice of going in and upon private
residences into the town as a solicitor, agent or representative, peddler,
hawker, itinerant merchant, and transient vendor of merchandise, not having
been requested or invited to do so by the owners or occupants of such private
residences, for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares,
and merchandise; or for the purpose of disposing of, peddling, or hawking the
same; or soliciting orders for goods or services; or for taking orders for any
type of contract for present or future completion or continuation.
(Prior Code, § 15-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor’s note:
   Case discussing the definition of peddlers, hawkers, and the like, see
Clements v. Town of Casper, 4 Wyo. 494, 35 P. 472 (1894)
   Case holding that an ordinance forbidding the going on private premises by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, and transient vendors in
the absence of an invitation by the owners or occupants does not contravene the
Due Proves Clause where reasonable bases exist for the ordinance, see Breard v.
City of Alexandria, Louisiana, 341 U.S. 622, 91 L.E. 1223, 71 S. Ct. 920
   Case holding that ordinances declaring uninvited visitation of private
residences by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, and transient
vendors a nuisance punishable as a misdemeanor is valid exercise of police
power to prevent disturbances and is not repugnant to the Commerce Clause of
the United States Constitution, see Town of Green River v. Bunger, 50 Wyo. 52,
58 P. 2d 456 (1936)
§ 111.06 REQUIRED LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, peddler, solicitor, or
canvasser to engage in any such business without first obtaining a license
therefor in compliance with the provisions of §§
111.07 through
111.11.
(Prior Code, § 15-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 FILING; CONTENTS OF APPLICATIONS.
   Applicants for a license under §§
111.07 through
111.11 shall file within the Town Clerk’s office a sworn application in writing
which shall give the following information:
   (A)   The name and description of the applicant;
   (B)   The permanent home address and full local address of the applicant,
and the phone and cell number;
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold;
   (D)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or orders
taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such goods or
products are located at the time such application is filed, and the proposed
method of delivery;
   (G)   A photograph of the applicant or photo of driver’s license filed
immediately with the filing of the application; and
   (H)   A statement as to whether the applicant has been convicted of any
crime or violation of any town law, the nature of the offense, and the
punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
(Prior Code, § 15-8)
§ 111.08 FEES.
   The license fee, which shall be paid to the town, within the office of the
Clerk, upon the issuance of a license hereunder, shall be as established from
time to time by the Town Council, provided that:
   (A)   If any person has more than one person engaged in the business of
peddling or uses more than one motortruck, wagon, or other vehicle in such
business of peddling, the license fees shall be paid for each of such persons,
motortrucks, wagons, or vehicles used in such business.
   (B)   If any person has more than one person engaged in the business of
soliciting or canvassing, the foregoing license fee shall be paid for each
person engaged in such business.
(Prior Code, § 15-9)
§ 111.09 EXHIBITION.
   Any person licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall exhibit his
or her license at the request of any citizen.
(Prior Code, § 15-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10 TRANSFER.
   No license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be transferred.
(Prior Code, § 15-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.11 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by
the Town Council, after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in the course of
carrying on the business;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
and/or
      (5)   Conducting the business in an unlawful manner, or in such a manner
as to constitute a breach of the peace, or to constitute a menace to the
health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee
at his or her last known address at least three days prior to the date set for
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 15-12)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Applications
   
112.03   Procedure upon application
   
112.04   Appeal of denials; renewal applicants
   
112.05   Term
   
112.06   Renewals
   
112.07   Hours of operation
   
112.08   Places of sale
   
112.09   Clubs
   
112.10   Restaurants
   
112.11   Fees
   
112.12   Prohibited acts
   
112.13   Open containers
   
112.14   Server training
   
112.15   Violations
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Alcoholic beverages generally, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 12-1-101 et seq.
   Authority of town to regulate, prohibit, or license the sale of alcoholic
and/or malt beverages, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 12-2-201 et seq.
   Maximum number of licenses that may be issued, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-4-101
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Any spirituous or fermented fluid intended for beverage
purposes containing more than 1% of alcohol by volume.
   BOTTLE CLUB. An operation or enterprise whereby space is given or rented to
any person upon the club premises for the keeping or storage of alcoholic or
malt beverages for consumption upon the club premises, or in other rooms nearby
used for consumption by the owner of the beverages or by the guests; the
income, profits, or fees of the operator of the BOTTLE CLUB being secured from
sales of furnishing mixes, ice, food, or glasses or from dues, charges,
contributions, membership cards, or assessments.
   CLUB. Any of the following organizations:
      (1)   A post, charter, camp, or other local unit composed only of
veterans and its duly organized auxiliary chartered by the Congress of the
United States for patriotic, fraternal, or benevolent purposes, and as the
owner, lessee, or occupant, operates an establishment for these purposes within
the town;
      (2)   A chapter, lodge, or other local unit of an American national
fraternal organization, and as the owner, lessee, or occupant, operates an
establishment for fraternal purposes within the town. As used in this
definition, an “American Fraternal Organization” means an organization actively
operating in not less than 36 states or having been in active, continuous
existence for not less than 20 years, but does not mean a college fraternity;
and
      (3)   A social club with more than 100 bona fide members who are
residents of the county; owning, maintaining, or operating club quarters;
incorporated and operating solely as a nonprofit corporation under the laws of
the state and qualified as a tax exempt organization under the Internal Revenue
Service Code; and having been continuously operating for a period of not less
than one year.
         (a)   The club shall have had during this one-year period a bona fide
membership paying dues of at least $25 per year as recorded by the secretary of
the club, quarterly meetings, and actively engaged membership carrying out the
objects of the club.
         (b)   A social club shall, upon applying for a license, file with the
Town Council and the State Liquor Commission a true copy of its bylaws and
shall further, upon applying for a renewal of its license, file with the Town
Council and the State Liquor Commission a detailed statement of its activities
during the preceding year which were undertaken or furthered in pursuit of the
objects of the club, together with an itemized statement of amounts expended
for such activities.
         (c)   Club members, at the time of application for the limited retail
liquor license, shall be in good standing by having paid at least one full year
in dues.
   LIMITED RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE. The authority under which clubs shall be
permitted to sell alcoholic and malt beverages.
   MALT BEVERAGE. Any fluid intended for beverage purposes manufactured from
malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor containing more than
1% of alcohol by volume.
   RESTAURANT. Space in a building maintained, advertised, and held out to the
public as a place where individually priced meals are prepared and served
primarily for on-premises consumption, and where the primary source of revenue
from the operation is from the sale of food and not from the sale of alcoholic
or malt beverages. The building shall have a dining room or rooms, a kitchen,
and the number and kinds of employees necessary for the preparing, cooking, and
serving of meals in order to satisfy the licensing authority that the space is
intended for use as a FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT.
      (1)   FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT means a restaurant at which waiters or
waitresses deliver food and drink offered from a printed food menu to patrons
at tables or booths.
      (2)   The service of fry-only orders or such food and victuals as
sandwiches, hamburgers, or salads shall not be deemed a RESTAURANT for the
purposes of this chapter.
   RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE. The authority under which a retailer shall be
permitted to sell alcoholic or malt beverages for use or consumption, but not
for resale.
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale any alcoholic or malt
beverage for use or consumption and not for resale.
   SELL or SALE. Offering for sale, trafficking in, bartering, delivering for
value, exchanging for goods, or acting in any way other than purely
gratuitously. Every delivery of any alcoholic or malt beverage made otherwise
than by gift shall constitute a SALE.
(Prior Code, § 3-1) (Ord. 224, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 12-1-101 and 12-4-302
§ 112.02 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Any person desiring a license under this chapter shall apply to the
Town Council for the same. Such application shall be made upon a form prepared
by the Attorney General and shall meet the requirements prescribed by
applicable state statutes.
   (B)   Each applicant shall, at the time of filing an application, make
payment within the office of the Clerk to the town in an amount sufficient to
cover the costs of publishing the required statutory notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Duty of Attorney General of state to prepare and furnish forms, see Wyo.
Stat. § 12-4-701
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-4-101
§ 112.03 PROCEDURE UPON APPLICATION.
   The procedure to be followed when an application has been filed shall be as
prescribed by applicable state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3-3)
§ 112.04 APPEAL OF DENIALS; RENEWAL APPLICANTS.
   No applicant for a license under this chapter shall have a right of appeal
from the decision of the governing body denying an application, except
applicants holding a license which is expiring and who are applying for a
renewal.
(Prior Code, § 3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Appeal procedures, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-4-104
§ 112.05 TERM.
   A license shall be a personal privilege and good for one year unless sooner
revoked.
(Prior Code, § 3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-4-106
§ 112.06 RENEWALS.
   All renewals for a license shall be controlled by applicable state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Appeal procedures, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-4-104
§ 112.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   All persons licensed under this chapter shall:
      (1)   Close the dispensing room and cease the sale of both alcoholic and
malt liquors promptly at the hour of 2:00 a.m.;
      (2)   Clear the dispensing room of all persons other than employees by 2:
30 a.m.; and
      (3)   Keep the same closed until 6:00 a.m. the same day.
   (B)   The Town Council may designate a total of four days each calendar year
when all licensees may operate without restriction as to closing hours.
(Prior Code, § 3-7) (Ord. 170, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Hours of operation, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-5-101
§ 112.08 PLACES OF SALE.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   The place in which alcoholic and malt beverages are sold under a
retail liquor license shall be located in one room at such location upon the
premises for which the retail liquor license is issued, as shall be approved by
the Town Council; except that the licensee thereof may have and maintain one
additional dispensing room in the same building, which additional dispensing
room shall be operated under the authority of the same license as authorizes
the licensee to operate a dispensing room as herein provided. The additional
dispensing room may be on any floor.
      (2)   The licensee shall pay an additional fee equal to two-thirds of the
fee paid for the retail license for authority to operate an additional
dispensing room. Alcoholic and malt beverages secured in the licensed room by a
server may be served only in the building in which the licensed room is
located.
   (B)   Items which may be sold. Only alcoholic and malt beverages,
nonalcoholic beverages, food, and tobacco may be sold and served in the
licensed room.
   (C)   Inspections. All places licensed under this chapter shall be open for
inspection by any peace officer at any time, and such officers may enter
therein without a search warrant for such purpose.
   (D)   Separation of certain facilities. The retail licensee may maintain an
area for the sale of alcoholic and malt beverages for off-premises consumption,
which shall be located adjoining the facility for making sales for on-premises
consumption. The two facilities may be separated by a glass or other suitable
partition if they are connected by a doorway to permit persons to pass freely
between the two facilities. No addition fee shall be assessed against a
licensee who separates the licensed premised in this manner.
   (E)   Additional rooms for convention facilities. If the licensee is engaged
in a business operation with convention facilities, the licensee may maintain
more than one additional dispensing room for the same fee required by §
112.11(A)(1).
(Prior Code, § 3-8) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-5-201
§ 112.09 CLUBS.
   (A)   Clubs shall be licensed under a limited retail liquor license.
   (B)   No club holding a limited retail license shall sell alcoholic or malt
beverages for consumption anywhere except in the licensed premises and for
consumption by its members and guests. It shall be the duty and obligation of
each club to check and regulate the sale to members and guests, and any and all
alcoholic or malt beverages sold by it shall be consumed in the licensed
premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-9) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-4-301
§ 112.10 RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   Restaurants may be issued restaurant liquor licenses upon application
and upon meeting all requirements prescribed by state statutes. Any restaurant
license issued shall be subject to all restrictions imposed by state statutes.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be one bar-and-grill liquor license available within
the town.
         (a)   The applicant for a bar-and-grill liquor license shall provide a
valid food-service permit with the application.
         (b)   The license shall be allowed to be transferred, assigned, or
sold by the holder pending approval of the Council.
         (c)   An applicant for a bar-and-grill liquor license shall satisfy
the town that the primary source of revenue from the operation of the
restaurant to be licensed will be derived from food services and not from the
sale of alcoholic or malt beverages.
         (d)   When renewing a bar-and-grill liquor license, the town shall
condition renewal upon a requirement that not less than 60% of gross sales from
the preceding 12 months of operation of a licensed restaurant be derived from
food services.
         (e)   Upon application for license renewal, a license holder shall
submit an annual report to the town on the sales of the licensed restaurant.
The report shall contain the annual gross sales figures of the restaurant and
shall separate the gross sales figures into two categories:
            1.   Food-service sales; and
            2.   Alcoholic and malt beverage sales.
      (2)   The bar-and-grill licensee shall satisfy the appropriate
requirements for a restaurant liquor license and all other applicable liquor
statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3-11) (Ord. 224, passed - -; Ord. 275, 8-10-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Every person licensed as a retail liquor dealer shall pay an
annual fee of $1,000.
      (2)   Every club licensed under a limited retail liquor license shall pay
an annual fee of $1,000.
      (3)   Every restaurant licensed under a restaurant license shall pay an
annual fee of $1,000.
   (B)   Every applicant for a bar-and-grill liquor license shall pay a fee of
$1,500.
(Prior Code, § 3-12) (Ord. 224, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of fees received, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-4-105
   Fee for operation of additional dispensing room, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-5-201
   Minimum and maximum license fee which municipality may charge, see Wyo.
Stat. § 12-4-201
   Refund of fees, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-4-105
§ 112.12 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (E) below, restaurant and bar-
and-grill liquor licensees shall not sell alcoholic or malt beverages for
consumption off the premises owned or leased by the licensee.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (E) below, alcoholic or
malt beverages shall be served for on-premises consumption only in dining areas
which are adequately staffed and equipped for all food services offered by the
restaurant.
   (B)   Alcoholic and malt beverages shall be dispensed and prepared for
consumption in one room upon the licensed premises separated from the dining
area in which alcoholic and malt beverages may be served or restaurant liquor
license is operational.
      (1)   No consumption of alcoholic or malt beverages shall be permitted
within the dispensing room, nor shall any person other than employees over 18
years of age be permitted to enter the dispensing room.
      (2)   If a restaurant has a dispensing room separate from the dining area
which is licensed prior to February 1, 1979 for purposes of alcoholic or malt
beverage sales and consumption, the restaurant may dispense alcoholic or malt
beverages in the separate dispensing room under a restaurant liquor license,
and any person over 18 years of age is permitted to enter the separate
dispensing room.
   (C)   All sales of alcoholic and malt beverages authorized by a restaurant
or bar-and-grill liquor license shall cease at the time food sales and services
cease, or at the hours specified by Wyo. Stat. § 12-5-101(a) if food sales and
services extend beyond the hours specified therein.
   (D)   No restaurant or bar-and-grill liquor licensee shall promote the
restaurant or bar-and-grill as a bar-and-lounge, nor shall the licensee compete
with a retail liquor licensee in activities other than dinner functions
including but not limited to dances, receptions, and other social gatherings.
   (E)   A restaurant or bar-and-grill liquor licensee may permit a patron to
remove one unsealed bottle of wine for off-premises consumption provided that
the patron has purchased a full-course meal and consumed a portion of the
bottle of wine with the meal on the restaurant premises.
      (1)   For purposes of this division (E), the term FULL-COURSE MEAL shall
mean a diversified selection of food which is ordinarily consumed with the use
of tableware and cannot conveniently be consumed while standing or walking.
      (2)   A partially consumed bottle of wine that is to be removed from the
premises pursuant to this division (E) shall be securely sealed by the licensee
or an agent of the licensee and placed in a tamper-proof transparent bag, which
shall also be securely sealed prior to removal from the premises, so that it is
visibly apparent that the resealed bottle of wine has not been tampered with.
The licensee or agent of the licensee shall provide a dated receipt for the
bottle of wine to the patron.
(Prior Code, § 3-13) (Ord. 224, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession or
automobile, any open container which contains any alcoholic beverage in any
public place including streets within the town, except those establishments
licensed to serve alcoholic beverages. The Town Council, by resolution from
time to time, can designate places and times during which this section shall
not apply.
(Prior Code, § 3-14) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 SERVER TRAINING.
   (A)   Alcohol server training required. All holders of any type of liquor
license issued by the town shall require all employees that have been employed
for at least 60 days to attend alcohol server training approved or recognized
by the State Liquor Division.
      (1)   The employees shall attend and complete said alcohol server
training within 90 days of employment.
      (2)   Alcohol server training will be renewed every three years.
(Prior Code, § 3-17)
   (B)   Interim training. All holders of any type of liquor license issued by
the town shall have new employees trained by a current employee whom has
previously attended and completed an alcohol server training class until said
new employee complies with division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 3-18)
   (C)   Record of training due with renewal. Annually, with the liquor license
holder’s application for a new license, the license holder shall provide a list
of all current employees together with the date of hire, date of alcohol server
training, or date of scheduled alcohol server training.
(Prior Code, § 3-20)
(Ord. 255, passed 6-11-2014) Penalty, see §
112.99
Editor’s note:
   Current website for tips training, see http://gettips.com
§ 112.15 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalty which may be imposed pursuant to the
provisions of this code or state law, the violation of any provision of this
chapter by any licensee may be sufficient cause for the suspension or
revocation of the license.
   (B)   An action to revoke any license or permit for the reason that the
license was unlawfully granted; or that the licensee or permittee was not
entitled to receive the same; or that the place of sale in which alcoholic or
malt liquors are sold under such license is not a proper place for sale of the
same; or that the licensee or permittee is permitting activities in such place
of sale forbidden by ordinance or which are detrimental to the welfare, health,
morals, and safety of the people of the town; or that the licensee or permittee
has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, may be brought in the name
of the town. Such action shall be civil in nature and commenced as are civil
actions.
(Prior Code, § 3-16)
Statutory reference:
   Procedures to revoke or suspend licenses, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-7-101
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-15)
   (B)   All holders of any type of liquor license issued by the town that
fails to comply with §
112.14(A) or (B) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in an amount
not to exceed $750 plus court costs.
(Prior Code, § 3-19) (Ord. 255, passed 6-11-2014)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
   
113.01   Circuses, exhibitions, and the like
   
113.02   Fireworks
   
113.03   Martial arts paraphernalia
   
113.04   Billiards; bowling; pool halls
   
113.05   Dances
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to license circuses, exhibitions, and the like, see Wyo.
Stat. § 33-6-104
§ 113.01 CIRCUSES, EXHIBITIONS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall conduct or manage any caravan, circus, street show,
merry-go-round, or other exhibition, show, or amusement; or shall exhibit any
natural or artificial curiosities, or panoramic, or other show or device of any
kind; or shall give any concert or musical entertainment without first
obtaining a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 7-7)
   (B)   (1)   Any person conducting or managing any caravan, circus, street
show, merry-go-round, or other exhibition, show, or amusement; or who shall
exhibit any natural or artificial curiosities, or panoramic, or other show or
device of any kind; or who shall give any concert or musical entertainment,
shall make application to the office of the Clerk for a license.
      (2)   Every application shall set forth the name of the applicant and
qualifications, together with such other information as may be required by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 7-8)
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a fee as established by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 7-9)
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall offer for sale, sell, or give away any fireworks
within the town without first obtaining a license therefor.
   (B)   Any person applying for a license to offer for sale, sell, or give
away fireworks shall file with the office of the Clerk an application in
writing which shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name of applicant;
      (2)   The permanent home address and local address of the applicant and
the representative thereof filing the application;
      (3)   A description of the nature of the business to be conducted; and
      (4)   The place where the sale of fireworks will take place, which place
must be approved by the governing body prior to issuance of the license.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any fireworks
without a license, or to discharge or detonate any fireworks within the town
except during the time and in a place the Town Council designates.
      (2)   Persons may discharge fireworks on July 3, 4, and 5 only.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to discharge any
fireworks south of the Burlington Northern Railroad tracks from the hours of 7:
00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. on July 4 on the years that an organized display is
presented for the general public.
   (E)   FIREWORKS shall mean any article, device, or substance prepared for
the primary purpose of producing a visual or auditory sensation by combustion,
explosion, deflagration, or detonation, including without limitation: articles
and devices commonly known and used as fireworks, toy cannons or toy canes in
which explosives are used, blank cartridges, firecrackers, torpedoes,
skyrockets, and Roman candles. FIREWORKS shall not include any item which may
be sold or offered for sale under 15 U.S.C. § 1261, 21 U.S.C. § 371, and 16
C.F.R. part 1507.
(Prior Code, § 7-10) (Ord. 167, passed 10-1-1994) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 MARTIAL ARTS PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person or legal entity to sell any type of martial
arts paraphernalia within the town.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-22-1985) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 BILLIARDS; BOWLING; POOL HALLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any firm, corporation, association, or person
to maintain or operate any public pool hall, billiard hall, or bowling alley
for pay in the town without first having procured from the town a license as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Any person desiring to open, maintain, and operate any public pool
hall, billiard hall, or bowling alley for pay in the town shall file with the
office of the Clerk a written application for a license to maintain and operate
such hall, shall designate the location by lot and block where such hall is to
be maintained and operated, and shall designate the number of tables or alleys
to be operated therein.
      (1)   The application so filed with the Town Council at its regular
meeting next ensuing, and if approved by the Council, shall direct the office
of the Clerk to issue a license to such person so applying upon the payment by
such person to the Town Treasurer of a license fee of $5 per quarter for each
table or alley to be used or operated in such hall.
      (2)   It shall be a condition of said license that it may be revoked at
any time by the Mayor and Town Council for a violation of any of the provisions
of this section; and that upon such revocation, the unearned portion of the
license fee provided in division (B)(1) above shall be deemed and held to be
forfeited to the town.
   (C)   The town, through its Mayor and Town Council, reserves the right under
the terms of the provisions of this section, in passing upon an application for
any such license, to consider the character and responsibility of the applicant
and any objections that may exist against the granting of the license at the
proposed location.
   (D)   Any license granted under the provisions of this section shall extend
for the year ending on May 1 following the date thereof, unless revoked prior
thereto as provided in division (B)(2) above; provided that the license fee of
$5 per table shall be payable quarterly in advance.
   (E)   In case the licensee desires to operate additional tables or alleys,
he or she shall present to the Mayor and Town Council in application therefor,
setting out the date of his or her license, the place of his or her location,
the number of tables or alleys operated therein, and the number of additional
tables or alleys which he or she desires to operate in said place, and the
Mayor and Town Council shall have the power to direct and authorize the
issuance of a further license, for the unexpired portion of the year, for the
operation of such additional tables or alleys upon the payment of the required
license fee as provided in division (B)(1) above.
   (F)   No license shall be issued to any firm, corporation, or to any person
as agent or manager for any other person firm or corporation, and no license
shall be transferrable by sale, assignment, or in any other manner.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person maintaining and operating any pool
hall, billiard hall, or bowling alley for pay in the town to permit any person
under 18 years age to frequent, remain in, or patronize any such hall or alley.
   (H)   Any person maintaining and operating any public pool hall, billiard
hall, or bowling alley for pay in the town may require any person suspected by
him or her to be under 18 years of age, before permitting such person to
frequent and remain in or patronize such hall or alley, to sign a statement in
writing of his or her true age and name.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to frequent
or remain in any public pool hall, billiard hall, or bowling alley maintained
and operated for pay in the town, or to play in any such hall or alley.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to permit therein any disturbance of the peace,
drunkenness, fighting, the presence of or the drinking of any intoxicating
liquor, any lewd or obscene pictures or practices, and/or gambling of any
nature or character.
(Ord. 22, passed 4-7-1930) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 DANCES.
   (A)   All public dances shall close not later than 1:00 a.m.
   (B)   Any person or persons operating a dance in the town must first obtain
from within the office of the Town Clerk a dance license (good for one night
only).
(Ord. 28, passed 5-1-1933; Ord. 41, passed 7-29-1938; Ord. 48, passed 6-5-1944)
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or legal entity violating §
113.03 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined a sum not to exceed $100.
   (C)   (1)   Any person maintaining or operating any public pool hall,
billiard hall, or bowling alley for pay in the town without first having
applied to the Mayor and Town Council for a license therefor, and without
having procured such license as provided in §
113.04, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof
before a Law Enforcement Officer of the town, shall be fined in a sum of not
more than $750 plus costs of prosecution as set forth by the laws of the state
or by rules of the Supreme Court. The operation of any such public pool hall,
billiard hall, or bowling alley upon any one day shall be deemed a separate
offense.
      (2)   Any such person violating the provisions of §
113.04(G) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction before a
Law Enforcement Officer of the town, shall be fined in a sum of not more than
$750 plus costs of prosecution as set forth by the laws of the state or by
rules of the Supreme Court.
      (3)   Any person under 18 years of age violating the provisions of §
113.04(I) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof
before a Law Enforcement Officer of the town, shall be fined a sum of not more
than $750 plus costs of prosecution as set forth by the laws of the state or by
rules of the Supreme Court.
      (4)   Any person under 18 years of age who shall, for the purpose of
securing permission to frequent, remain, in or play in any such hall or alley,
falsely represent to the manager or any employee thereof that his or her age is
18 years or more, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof before a Law Enforcement Officer of the town, shall be fined a sum of
not more than $750 plus costs of prosecution as set forth by the laws of the
state or by rules of the Supreme Court.
      (5)   Any person violating the provisions of §
113.04(J) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof
before a Law Enforcement Officer of the town, shall be fined a sum of not more
than $750 plus costs of prosecution as set forth by the laws of the state or by
rules of the Supreme Court.
   (D)   (1)   Violation of any of the provisions of §
113.05 shall constitute a misdemeanor, and any person convicted of such
violation and misdemeanor shall be punished by a fine of a sum of not more than
$750 plus costs of prosecution as set forth by the laws of the state or by
rules of the Supreme Court.
      (2)   Should there be a violation of the provisions of §
113.05 by a firm or partnership, each member or copartner of such firm or
partnership shall be deemed guilty as an individual.
(Ord. 22, passed 4-8-1930; Ord. 28, passed 5-1-1933; Ord. 120, passed 3-22-
1985; Ord. 127, passed 8-4-1987)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against Peace and Safety
   
130.01   Aiding, abetting, and attempting
   
130.02   Assault
   
130.03   Barricades; excavations
   
130.04   Battery
   
130.05   Coin machines
   
130.06   Criminal entry; trespass
   
130.07   Destruction of property
   
130.08   Disorderly conduct
   
130.09   Disturbing gatherings
   
130.10   Filing false reports of crime   
   
130.11   Discharging firearms
   
130.12   Glue sniffing and other inhalants
   
130.13   Interfering with police; resisting arrest
   
130.14   Interfering with municipal employees
   
130.15   Narcotic paraphernalia
   
130.16   Open burning
   
130.17   Failure to extinguish/contain fire
   
130.18   Throwing missiles   
   
130.19   Overnight camping
   
130.20   Refrigerators, iceboxes, and the like
   
130.21   Shoplifting
   
130.22   Unlawful acts through telephones
   
130.23   Theft of property
   
130.24   Theft of services
   
130.25   Unlawful posting
   
130.26   Noise
   
130.27   Disorderly gatherings   
Offenses Against Public Morals
   
130.40   Gambling
   
130.41   Obscenity
   
130.42   Prostitution
   
130.43   Public drunkenness
   
130.44   Window peeping   
   
130.45   Urinating/defecating in public
Offenses Concerning Minors
   
130.60   Curfew
   
130.61   Tobacco
 
   
130.99   Penalty
**** OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE AND SAFETY ****
§ 130.01 AIDING, ABETTING, AND ATTEMPTING.
   (A)   No person shall aid, abet, or assist another person in an act that is
a violation of this code.
   (B)   Any person attempting any act which is prohibited by this code shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be punished in the same manner as if the
attempted act was actually committed.
(Prior Code, § 10-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 ASSAULT.
   A person is guilty of simple assault if, having the present ability to do
so, he or she unlawfully attempts to cause bodily injury to another.
(Prior Code, § 10-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. § 6-2-501
§ 130.03 BARRICADES; EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall leave any excavation in an open or uncovered condition, or
in any such condition as may cause danger to life or property upon any premises
of which such person is the owner, agent, or other representative, unless the
ground upon which excavation is situated is enclosed by substantial barricades.
(Prior Code, § 10-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 BATTERY.
   (A)   A person is guilty of simple assault if, having the present ability to
do so, he or she unlawfully attempts to cause bodily injury to another.
   (B)   A person is guilty of battery if he or she intentionally, knowingly,
or recklessly causes bodily injury to another person by use of physical force.
   (C)   A person is guilty of unlawful contact if he or she:
      (1)   Touches another person in a rude, insolent, or angry manner without
intentionally using sufficient physical force to cause bodily injury to
another; or
      (2)   Recklessly causes bodily injury to another person.
(Wyo. Stat. § 6-2-501) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 COIN MACHINES.
   No person shall break, open, or enter a coin machine with intent to commit
larceny.
(Prior Code, § 10-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 CRIMINAL ENTRY; TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person shall, without authority, knowingly enter a building,
occupied structure, vehicle, or cargo portion of a truck or trailer, or a
separately secured or occupied portion of those enclosures.
(Prior Code, § 10-6)
   (B)   No person shall enter or remain on or in the land or premises of
another person knowing he or she is not authorized to do so or after being
notified to depart or to not trespass. For the purposes of this division (B),
notice is given by:
      (1)   Personal communication to the person by the owner or occupant, his
or her agent, or by a peace officer; or
      (2)   Posting of signs reasonably likely to come to the attention of
intruders.
(Prior Code, § 10-7)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 6-3-302 and 6-3-303
§ 130.07 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   A person is guilty of property destruction and defacement if he or she
knowingly defaces, injures, or destroys the property of another without the
owner’s consent.
(Prior Code, § 10-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. § 6-3-201
§ 130.08 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Commit an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another
whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or
damaged;
   (B)   Cause, provoke, or engage in any fight, brawl, or riotous conduct;
   (C)   Incite, attempt to incite, or be involved in attempting to incite a
riot. For the purposes of this division (C), the term RIOT shall mean a
tumultuous disturbance of the peace by persons assembled and acting with a
common intent to the terror of the people of the town, either in executing a
lawful enterprise in a violent or turbulent manner or in executing an unlawful
enterprise in a violent or turbulent manner;
   (D)   Obstruct, whether singly or together with other persons, the flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic or refuse to clear such public way when ordered
to do so by the police or other lawful authority known to be such;
   (E)   Damage, befoul, or disturb public property or the property of another
so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy, or physically offensive condition;
   (F)   Fail to obey a lawful order to disperse by a police officer, when know
to be such an official, when one or more persons are committing acts of
disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity and the public health and safety
imminently threatened;
   (G)   Resist or obstruct the performance of duties by police or any other
authorized official of the town when known to be such an official;
   (H)   Commit an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another
whereby that other is placed in danger of his or her life, limb, or health;
   (I)   Interfere with another’s pursuit of a lawful occupation by acts of
violence;
   (J)   Use abusive, profane, or obscene language or gestures in any public
place; and/or
   (K)   Interrupt or disturb the peace of the town or any of its inhabitants:
      (1)   By any loud talking;
      (2)   By threatening abusive, profane, or obscene language or violent
actions; or
      (3)   By any other rude behavior.
(Prior Code, § 10-10) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to prohibit profane, and the like, language, see Wyo.
Stat. § 15-1-103
   Authority of town to restrain, prohibit, and the like, disorderly conduct,
see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-103
   Authority of town to suppress, and the like, riots, and the like, see Wyo.
Stat. § 15-1-103
   Breach of peace, see Wyo. Stat. § 6-6-102
   Offenses against public peace generally, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 6-6-101 to 6-6-
307
§ 130.09 DISTURBING GATHERINGS.
   (A)   No person shall disturb any lawful assemblage of people by rude,
boisterous, or indecent behavior or otherwise.
   (B)   No person shall annoy or disturb any congregation or assembly,
gathered together for religious worship, by making a noise or by rude or
indecent behavior or profane discourse within the place wherein such
congregation or assembly is gathered together or so near the same as to be
heard by or tending to disturb the persons so engaged or assembled.
(Prior Code, § 10-11) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to prevent and the like, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-103
   Authority of town to suppress disorderly conduct, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-103
§ 130.10 FILING FALSE REPORTS OF CRIME.
   No person shall knowingly make or file any false, misleading, or unfounded
statement or report concerning any emergency or the commission or alleged
commission of any crime.
(Prior Code, § 10-12) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   No person shall carry a concealed deadly weapon; fire or discharge any
cannon, gun, fowling piece, pistol, or firearm of any description; or fire,
explode, or set off any squib, cracker, or other thing containing powder or
other combustible or explosive material without written permission from the
Town Council, which permission shall limit the time of such firing and shall be
subject to revocation by the Town Council at any time after being granted.
(Prior Code, § 10-13) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying weapons, see Wyo. Stat. § 6-8-104
§ 130.12 GLUE SNIFFING AND OTHER INHALANTS.
   (A)   No person shall, for the purpose of causing or so as to result in a
condition of intoxication, euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction, or
dulling of the senses or nervous system, intentionally smell or inhale the
fumes from any glue or similar toxic vapor or consume or use any otherwise
legal substance for a purpose not in accordance with its legitimate use or
purpose as in generally known, used, and advertised; provided that this section
shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   The inhalation of anesthesia for medical or dental purposes when
administered or directed by a licensed physician or dentist; or
      (2)   The use of tobaccos.
   (B)   No person shall, for the purpose of violating or aiding another to
violate any provisions of this section, intentionally possess, buy, sell,
transfer possession or receive possession of any substances herein prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 10-18) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 INTERFERING WITH POLICE; RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person shall resist any police officer or member of the Police
Department in the discharge of any duty or shall in any way interfere with or
hinder or prevent an officer from discharging the duties as such officer.
   (B)   No person shall in any manner assist any person in custody of any
police officer to escape or attempt to escape from such custody or shall rescue
or attempt to rescue any person so in custody.
(Prior Code, § 10-19) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Interference with officer, see Wyo. Stat. § 6-5-204
§ 130.14 INTERFERING WITH MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Interfere in any way with any employee of the town in the performance
of his or her work;
   (B)   Displace any stakes or landmarks deposited or installed by any
employee;
   (C)   In any way molest any tools, instruments, or equipment of any
employee; nor
   (D)   In any way molest any tools, instruments, or equipment used by such
employee in the duties assigned to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 10-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 NARCOTIC PARAPHERNALIA.
   No person shall possess any device, contrivance, instrument, or
paraphernalia designed or used for smoking a controlled substance or possess
any hypodermic needle or syringe or any other device, contrivance, instrument,
or paraphernalia designed or used for injecting a controlled substance, except
for the following persons:
   (A)   Licensed drug manufacturers, wholesale drug jobbers, pharmacists,
physicians, dentists, podiatrists, veterinarians, and nurses;
   (B)   Hospital research, teaching, and clinical laboratory personnel;
   (C)   Funeral directors and embalmers;
   (D)   Persons specifically authorized by a licensed physician, dentist, or
podiatrist to use a hypodermic needle or syringe for medical treatment
purposes, while so using the needle or syringe; and/or
   (E)   Persons using a hypodermic needle or syringe for the treatment of
livestock.
(Prior Code, § 10-22) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Narcotics generally, see Controlled Substances Act, Wyo. Stat. §§ 35-7-1001
to 35-7-1057
§ 130.16 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall, without permission of the owner and acting with
criminal negligence, set fire to any grounds or to anything on the grounds
which is the property of another, or allow a fire to pass from the owner’s
grounds to the injury or destruction of any property of another.
(Prior Code, § 10-23)
   (B)   (1)   The open burning of garbage, refuse, and rubbish is prohibited
within the town limits.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B)(1) above, the
controlled open burning of bothersome weeds and leaves may be permitted.
      (3)   A separate container will be provided upon request for stove ashes,
which will not be picked up unless cool for five days.
      (4)   Incinerators shall not be allowed except those incinerators in
place prior to January 21, 1985. Only paper, weeds, and leaves may be burned in
said incinerators.
(Ord. 119, passed 1-21-1985; Ord. 128, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 FAILURE TO EXTINGUISH/CONTAIN FIRE.
   No person shall light a fire and leave the vicinity of the fire without
extinguishing it or containing it so it does not spread and is not likely to
spread.
(Prior Code, § 10-24) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 THROWING MISSILES.
   No person shall throw any missile at or against any house, building,
vehicle, or at or toward any person or persons.
(Prior Code, § 10-25) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 OVERNIGHT CAMPING.
   (A)   No person shall remain overnight in any tent, sleeping bag, vehicle,
camper, or in any other manner whatsoever on any property belonging to the town
except in those areas specifically designated for overnight camping.
   (B)   No person shall remain in any area specifically designated for
overnight camping for a period in excess of three days in any 30-day period.
(Prior Code, § 10-29) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 REFRIGERATORS, ICEBOXES, AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall leave or permit to remain outside of any dwelling, building,
or other structure or within any unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling, or
other structure under his or her control in a place accessible to children: any
abandoned, unattended, or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other container
which has an airtight door or lid, snap lock, or other locking device which may
not be released from the inside, without first removing the door or lid, snap
lock, or other locking device from such icebox, refrigerator, or container.
(Prior Code, § 10-32) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 SHOPLIFTING.
   No person shall willfully conceal or take possession of any goods offered
for sale by wholesale or retail stores or other mercantile establishments
without the knowledge or consent of the owner thereof and with intent to
convert the goods to his or her own use without paying the purchase price.
(Prior Code, § 10-33) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. § 6-3-404
§ 130.22 UNLAWFUL ACTS THROUGH TELEPHONES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Telephone another and use obscene, lewd, or profane language or
suggest a lewd or lascivious act with intent to terrify, intimidate, threaten,
harass, annoy, or offend;
   (B)   By repeated anonymous telephone calls, disturb the peace, quiet, or
privacy of persons where the calls were received; and/or
   (C)   Telephone another and threaten to inflict injury or physical harm to
the person or property of any person.
(Prior Code, § 10-34) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 THEFT OF PROPERTY.
   No person shall steal, take and carry, or lead or drive away property of
another with intent to deprive the owner or lawful possessor of the property.
(Prior Code, § 10-35) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 THEFT OF SERVICES.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Obtain services which he or she knows are available only for
compensation without paying for the services; or
      (2)   Tamper or otherwise interfere with or connect to by any means,
whether mechanical, electrical, acoustical, or otherwise: any cables, wires, or
other devices used for distribution of service.
   (B)   As used in this section, SERVICES includes but is not limited to
electric, telephone, cable television, gas, water, or sewer services.
(Prior Code, § 10-36) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.25 UNLAWFUL POSTING.
   No person shall paint, print, paste, stencil, or otherwise mark upon or in
any manner place upon or affix to any building, fence, wall, tree, or vehicle
without the consent of the owner thereof: any word, letter, character, figure,
sentence, or device; or any handbill or notice.
(Prior Code, § 10-37) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.26 NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall act in such a loud or disorderly manner as to disturb
the general peace and order of this town regardless if the behavior is being
committed on public or private property. Nor shall any person operate or use
any item or equipment which causes the same results.
   (B)   The owner or immediate caretaker of any residence or place in which
the offense in division (A) above has been committed will be held responsible
for enforcement of this section after official warning has been given. Under
another disturbance, the owner or immediate caretaker shall be guilty of this
section regardless if he or she is participating in the illegal behavior or
not.
   (C)   No person shall keep or allow any animal upon one’s premises to in
such manner as to be offensive or annoying to others. It will be the
responsibility of the owner to control and prevent such animals from violation
of this division regardless if the owner is at home at the time of the
violation or not.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall be in effect during all hours of
the day and night.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, a person is considered to be in
violation of this section only if:
      (1)   A complaint is filed with the Police Department and the responding
officer feels such conduct is indeed unreasonable for the circumstances; or
      (2)   A police officer has not received a complaint yet feels the noise
or behavior is to an extend to disturb the peace of the town or disturb others
under the circumstances.
   (F)   Violation of any division or divisions of this section shall be
considered a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-40) (Ord. 179, passed 10-7-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.27 DISORDERLY GATHERINGS.
   (A)   No person who owns, rents, leases, subleases, occupies, possesses,
trespasses, or has control of any residence, hotel or motel room, public or
private building, premises or any portion thereof, shall: sponsor, conduct,
host, invite, or permit a social gather or party on said premises which is or
becomes a public nuisance as defined below, where such nuisance is either the
intentional result of or could be reasonably anticipated by the person or
persons have control of the premises. “Reasonably anticipated” shall be
adjudicated using a reasonable person standard.
   (B)   A NUISANCE GATHERING OR PARTY shall be defined as a social gathering
or party occurring on any premises within the town which, by reason of the
conduct of the persons in attendance, results in any one or more of the
following acts, conditions, events, or violations that occur at the premises of
said social gathering or party or on neighboring public or private property:
      (1)   Illegal open container;
      (2)   Urination outside on the premises or on the property of another;
      (3)   Unlawful sale, furnishing, dispensing, consumption, or possession
of alcohol or intoxicating liquor;
      (4)   Unlawful use of any controlled substance;
      (5)   Indecent exposure;
      (6)   Assault, battery, or fighting;
      (7)   Vandalism;
      (8)   Use of profane language or gesturing;
      (9)   Obstructing a peace officer;
      (10)   Resisting arrest;
      (11)   Unlawful parking;
      (12)   Disturbing the peace; and/or
      (13)   Any other unlawful act or action.
   (C)   All persons present at a nuisance gather or party shall cease upon the
order of a law enforcement officer and shall leave the premises immediately,
excluding the residents of said premises.
(Ord. 230, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
**** OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS ****
§ 130.40 GAMBLING.
   (A)   (1)   GAMBLING means risking any property for gain contingent in whole
or in part upon lot, chance, the operation of a gambling device, or the
happening or outcome of an event (including a sporting event) over which the
person taking a risk has no control, but does not include:
         (a)   Bona fide contests of skill, speed, strength, or endurance in
which awards are made only to entrants or the owners of entries;
         (b)   Bona fide business transactions which are valid under the law of
contracts;
         (c)   Other acts or transactions now or hereafter expressly authorized
by law;
         (d)   Raffles or bingos conducted or pull tables sold by charitable or
nonprofit organizations where the tickets for the raffle or bingo are sold only
in this state and the pull tabs are sold only on the premises owned or occupied
by the charitable or nonprofit organization;
         (e)   Any game, wager, or transaction which is incidental to a bona
fide social relationship, is participated in by natural persons only, and in
which no person is participating (directly or indirectly) in professional
gambling; or
         (f)   Calcutta wagering on contests or events conducted by bona fide
nationally chartered veterans’, religious, charitable, educational, or
fraternal organizations or nonprofit, local civic, or service clubs organized
or incorporated under the laws of this state, provided that:
            1.   The contest or event is conducted solely in this state;
            2.   Any rules affecting the contest or requirements for
participants are clearly posted;
            3.   The total prizes or prize money paid out in any one contest or
event does not exceed 90% of the total wagers;
            4.   A minimum of 10% of the total wagers of each contest or event
is donated within one year by the sponsoring organization to a bona fide
charitable or benevolent purpose;
            5.   No separate organization or professional person is employed to
conduct the contest or event or assist therein; and/or
            6.   The sponsoring organization, before conducting the contest or
event, gives 30 days’ written notice of the time and place thereof to the
governing body of the county or municipality in which it intends to conduct the
contest or event, and the governing body does not pass a resolution objecting
thereto.
         (g)   The display or private use of antique gambling devices in the
owner’s residence.
      (2)   No person shall engage in gambling.
(Prior Code, § 10-15)
   (B)   No person shall knowingly permit gambling in or upon the premises
owned, managed, or controlled by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 10-16)
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the police to seize any games, devices, cards,
tools, and implements or other articles or things designed for the purpose of
gambling, employed or used by or in the possession of parties arrested for
gambling, and upon conviction of the parties so arrested and upon order of the
judge, to confiscate and destroy the same.
(Prior Code, § 10-17)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to restrain, prohibit, and the like, gambling, see Wyo.
Stat. § 15-1-103
   Gambling generally, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 6-7-101 to 6-9-104
§ 130.41 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership-fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
      DISSEMINATE. To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
      KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
      MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written
material; or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other
pictorial representation; or any statue or other figure; or any recording,
transcription, or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction or any other
articles, equipment, or machines.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area
with less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male
genital in a discernible turgid state.
      OBSCENE. To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
         (a)   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole is to
prurient interest; i.e., a shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct,
nudity, or excretion;
         (b)   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct; and
         (c)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
      PERFORMANCE. Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance, or other
exhibition performed before an audience.
      PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel, or assist.
      SERVICE TO PATRONS. The provision of service to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages including but not limited to
hosting, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
cleaning, waitering, and entertaining.
(Prior Code, § 10-26)
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Knowingly disseminate, distribute, or make available to the public
any obscene material;
      (2)   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public;
      (3)   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or excretion
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements, and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of the prurient appeal;
      (4)   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
         (a)   His or her genitals, public hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region, or pubic hair region;
         (b)   Any device, costume, or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region, or
pubic hair region; or
         (c)   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof.
      (5)   Appear in a state of nudity in any public place; or
      (6)   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
(Prior Code, § 10-27)
   (C)   (1)   Expert affirmative evidence that the materials or activities are
obscene is not required when the materials or activities themselves are
presented as evidence.
      (2)   It shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution under
division (B) above that allegedly obscene material was disseminated or
presented for a bona fide scientific, medical, educational, governmental, or
judicial purpose of a physician, psychologist, teacher, clergyperson,
prosecutor, or judge.
(Prior Code, § 10-28)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to prohibit obscene language, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-103
   Obscenity generally, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 6-4-301 to 6-4-302
§ 130.42 PROSTITUTION.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Keep, set up, maintain, or operate any place, structure, or building
or conveyance for the purpose of prostitution; or with knowledge or reasonable
cause to know that the same is or is to be used for such purpose; or receive or
offer to agree to receive any person in any place, structure, or building or
conveyance for the purpose of prostitution; or permit any person to remain
therein for such purpose;
   (B)   Direct, take, transport, or offer or agree to take or transport any
person to any place, structure, or building or to any other person with
knowledge or reasonable cause to know that the purpose of such directing,
taking, or transporting is prostitution;
   (C)   Reside in, enter, or remain in any place, structure, or building or
conveyance for the purpose of prostitution;
   (D)   Engage in or solicit prostitution or aid or abet prostitution by
solicitation or by any means whatsoever; and/or
   (E)   (1)   Run or maintain a disorderly house within the town.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, a DISORDERLY HOUSE shall include
any place kept in such a manner as to disturb, annoy, or scandalize the public
generally or persons within the particular neighborhood; and any place kept for
the purpose of public resort with drunkards or public or private resort with
prostitutes, or other idle or vicious people, any place of public resort where
illegal practices are habitually carried on to the corruption of the public
morals or safety.
(Prior Code, § 10-30) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. § 6-4-101
§ 130.43 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   No person shall be drunk or in a state of intoxication in any public place
within the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-31) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of towns to regulate, and the like, intoxication, see Wyo. Stat. § 15-
1-103
§ 130.44 WINDOW PEEPING.
   No person shall look, peer, or peep into any residential home window which
is not his or her home.
(Prior Code, § 10-38) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.45 URINATING/DEFECATING IN PUBLIC.
   A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if he or she urinates or defecates
on public or private property in the view of the public.
(Prior Code, § 10-41) (Ord. passed 9-11-2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
**** OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS ****
§ 130.60 CURFEW.
   (A)   No minor shall remain, idle, wander, stroll, or play in any public
place either on foot or to cruise about without a set destination in any
vehicle in, about, or upon any place in the town between the hours of 9:30 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m. unless:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian, or other adult person
having custody or control of such minor or unless the minor is on an emergency
errand or specific business or activity directed or permitted by his or her
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of the
minor; or
      (2)   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession, or occupation.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, any person who has not attained the age
of 18 years is declared to be a MINOR.
(Prior Code, § 10-8) (Ord. 189, passed 12-4-2001) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.61 TOBACCO.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, give away, or deliver tobacco
products to any person under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   No person under the age of 18 years shall purchase tobacco products,
misrepresent his or her identity or age, or use any false or altered
identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to possess or
use any tobacco products.
(Prior Code, § 10-39) (Ord. 177, passed 1-7-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 14-3-301 through 14-4-305
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Simple assault is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more
than $750.
      (2)   Battery is a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more
than six months, a fine of not more than $750, or both. Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the term of probation imposed by a judge under §
130.04 may exceed the maximum term of imprisonment established for the offense
under§
130.04 provided the term of probation, together with any extension thereof,
shall in no case exceed one year.
      (3)   An unlawful contact under §
130.04(C) is a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than six
months, a fine of not more than $750 or both.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
130.16 shall be charged with a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined in an amount not less than $10 nor more than $750, plus the costs of
prosecution as set forth by the laws of the state or by the rules of the
Supreme Court.
(Prior Code, § 10-23)
   (D)   All persons identified in §
130.27(A) violating §
130.27 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined a minimum of
$350 plus court costs for the first offense. Convictions for a second offense
shall be a minimum of $500 plus court costs. Convictions for the third or
subsequent offenses shall be fined up to a maximum of $750 plus court costs.
   (E)   The penalty for §
130.45 is as follows.
      (1)   The first offense upon conviction is a fine of up to $250.
      (2)   The second offense upon conviction is a fine up to $450.
      (3)   The third offense upon conviction is a fine up to $750.
(Prior Code, § 10-41)
(Ord. 119, passed 1-21-1985; Ord. 128, passed 9-8-1987; Ord. 230, passed - -;
Ord. passed 9-11-2013)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SIDEWALKS, STREETS, AND ALLEYS
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
153.   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS
      
154.   HYDRAULIC FRACTURING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Abatement of nuisance conditions and dangerous buildings
   
150.02   Assessment of liens for abatement of dangerous buildings
   
150.03   Excavations; Wyoming One Call
   
150.04   Building permit fees
   
150.05   Demolition; state inspection
   
150.06   Establishing subdivisions; cost
Buildings and Mobile Homes; Construction and Maintenance
   
150.20   Adoption of uniform codes
   
150.21   Definitions
   
150.22   Placement restrictions
   
150.23   Application; license
   
150.24   Construction requirements
   
150.25   Placement outside mobile home parks
   
150.26   Skirting
   
150.27   Placement and storage of flammable/combustible materials and propane
tanks
   
150.28   Building placement upon lots; yard size
   
150.29   Fencing
Building Numbering
   
150.40   Building numbering
Mobile Homes for Residential Occupation
   
150.55   Jurisdiction; authority
   
150.56   Definition
   
150.57   Permit; placement factors
   
150.58   Compliance with other ordinances/codes
 
   
150.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 150.01 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE CONDITIONS AND DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any owner, agent, tenant, purchaser,
contractor, or lessee of any premises within the town, including dwelling
houses and property, to maintain the premises in a clean and orderly condition,
permitting no deposit or accumulation of materials or vehicles.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any owner, agent, tenant, purchaser,
contractor, or lessee of any premises within the town, including dwelling
houses and property, if so ordered, to repair any structure or destroy any
structure deemed dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of the town or
adjacent properties or dwellings.
   (C)   (1)   Notice of violation of division (A) above shall be a written
notice requiring the removal of accumulated material, vehicles, trailers, or
other debris located on the property. Said notice shall give the offending
party 15 days to remove such violation. Notice shall deemed delivered when
personally served or deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid and
addressed to the owner, occupant, or agent of the premises.
      (2)   Notice of violation shall be a written notice requiring the repair,
removal, or destruction of any dangerous building or enclosure that is
considered a danger to the health, safety, and welfare to the community or
adjacent properties.
         (a)   Said cost shall be born by the property owner, agent, or
occupant of the property in question.
         (b)   Said notice shall give the offending party 20 days to appeal
said notice to the Municipal Court. Based on the Court’s ruling, said party may
appeal the Court’s decision to the Town Council and Mayor within ten days of
the Court’s ruling. Based on the Town Council and Mayor’s ruling, the offending
party may appeal the ruling to the District Court of authority.
(Ord. 254, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 ASSESSMENT OF LIENS FOR ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   For any dangerous building abated by the town and for which the
town claims recovery of cost of repair or demolition pursuant to the Uniform
Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, the costs of repair or
demolition, as determined by the town as provided in the Code, shall constitute
a lien against the property repaired or demolished by the filing with the
County Clerk, a lien statement verifying the accuracy of the lien and the
allegations set forth in the lien statement, sworn to and acknowledged by the
town or its authorized representative before a notarial officer. The County
Clerk shall record and index the lien statement by date, names of the claimant
and property owner, and legal description of the property.
      (2)   The lien statement shall contain as appropriate the following
information:
         (a)   The name and address of the town;
         (b)   The amount claimed to be due and owing;
         (c)   The name and address of the record owner against whose property
the lien is filed;
         (d)   The name and address of the holder of any prior lien, security
interest, or mortgage on or against the property the lien is filed;
         (e)   The legal description of the property to which the lien applies;
and
         (f)   An itemized list setting forth the charges claimed to be
assessed.
   (B)   Notice shall be sent by the town to the last record owner or his or
her agent and any prior lienholder, security interest holder, or mortgagee
within 30 days after the lien statement is filed. Failure to send the notice
required under this division (B) shall not affect the validity of the lien.
   (C)   As a fee for recording a lien statement, the County Clerk shall
collect from the town the same fee as provided by Wyo. Stat. § 18-3-402(a)(xvi)
(P). An irregularity in the lien statement may provide a valid defense for a
party defending against the lien. The County Clerk shall nevertheless file a
lien statement at the date and time received by the County Clerk regardless of
any irregularity, illegible language, or other reason.
   (D)   The recording fee in division (C) above may be assessed as costs in
any action to foreclose or enforce the lien.
   (E)   Any lien perfected in compliance with this section attaches to the
real property and improvements made in preference to any subsequent lien,
security interest, or mortgage under any other provision of law which has been
perfected upon real or personal property, including a leasehold interest,
against which the lien is claimed.
   (F)   Any lien, security interest, or mortgage which has been perfected upon
real property or upon a leasehold interest prior to the commencement of any
abatement work or repair of the property shall have priority.
(Ord. 299, passed 5-8-2019)
§ 150.03 EXCAVATIONS; WYOMING ONE CALL.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         BUSINESS DAY. Any 24-hour period other than Saturday, Sunday, or a
legal holiday.
         EXCAVATION or EXCAVATES. Any operation in which earth, rock, or other
materials on or below the ground is moved or otherwise displaced by means of
hand or power tools, power equipment, or explosives or other means, and
includes grading, trenching, digging, ditching, drilling, augering, tunneling,
boring, plowing in, pulling in, ripping, scraping, and cable or pipe
installing, except tilling of soil and gardening or agricultural purposes.
         EXCAVATOR. Any person or entity that excavates or conducts excavation
actives.
         NOTIFICATION CENTER. Wyoming One Call that receives notice from
excavators, diggers of planned excavation, or other requests for location, and
transmits this notice to participating operators.
      (2)   Every person shall file with the notification center (Wyoming One
Call) 811. Except as hereafter provided, no person shall make or begin
excavation without first notifying the notification center of the proposed
excavation.
         (a)   Notice shall be given by telephone, email, fax, or other
electronic medium approved by the notification center at least three full
business days (but not more than 14 business days) prior to any excavation.
         (b)   Notification of the information to the notification center
(Wyoming One Call) shall include the following:
            1.   Name of person notifying the notification center;
            2.   Name and address with the telephone number of the person
digging or the excavator;
            3.   Specific location by address, street, lot, or property; and
            4.   Starting date and description of the intended dig activity.
      (3)   No digging shall begin until the locations have been flagged or
painted by respective notification groups as required by law.
      (4)   Should any person dig and disrupt any public utility (meaning the
town’s electric, sewer, or water), he or she shall be subject to all repair
costs incurred.
   (B)   The first locate will be done complimentary. The second and any
subsequent locates for the same job will be charged to the contractor/home
owner at $1 per foot.
(Ord. 257, passed 9-10-2014; Ord. 267, passed 11-27-2024) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   The building permit filing fee is changed to $25 as of the effective date of
the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 272, passed 7-13-2016) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 DEMOLITION; STATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall demolish or take down any
building or structure on any lot within the corporate limits of the town
without first obtaining a permit for such demolition from the town. The
standard fee shall apply.
   (B)   Any public building, structure, or commercial building shall require a
state inspection by the State Department of Environmental Quality Air Quality
Division, as required by state and federal law.
(Ord. passed 5-1-2012) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 ESTABLISHING SUBDIVISIONS; COST.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person or entity dividing or proposing to divide land so
as to constitute a subdivision.
      SUBDIVISION. The division or re-subdivision of any lot, tract, or parcel
of land into two or more plats, sites, or other divisions of land.
   (B)   The subdivider shall be responsible for all costs and expenses
associated with extending or connecting to the town utilities including water,
sewer, electricity, roadways, and any other utility.
   (C)   The subdivider shall be responsible for all costs and expenses
associated with installing streets, curb and gutters, sidewalks, water service,
sanitary sewer service, electrical service, drainage, landscaping, and other
development issues to each lot, plot, tract, or parcel of land.
   (D)   The subdivider shall be responsible for dedicating land for public use
for streets, alleys, walkways, drainage, and utility purposes.
   (E)   (1)   Other than for townhouse or condominium purposes, the ownership
of a portion of a duly platted lot, tract, or parcel may be transferred to the
owner of adjacent property without being deemed a subdivision.
      (2)   In such a non-subdivision transfer, the improvements upon the
resultant parcels must be in conformance with all town codes and regulations,
including zoning codes. Notwithstanding the above, chain deeding in order to
avoid or circumvent the subdivision code or regulations shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 203, passed 10-4-2005) Penalty, see §
150.99
**** BUILDINGS AND MOBILE HOMES; CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE ****
§ 150.20 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM CODES.
   (A)   (1)   There is adopted by reference, as provided by Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-
119, for the purpose of establishing rules, regulations, and standards for
construction and maintenance of buildings and premises, and other regulatory
measures, to safeguard life, health, property, and public welfare of the
citizens of the town, the following uniform codes and appendices (1992
editions), as adopted by the International Conference of Building Officials,
Whittier, California; International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical
Officials, Los Angeles, California; and Western Fire Chiefs Association,
Whittier, California; are adopted by reference and incorporated herein as fully
as if set out at length in this code of ordinances:
         (a)   Uniform Mechanical Code;
         (b)   Uniform Building Code;
         (c)   Uniform Plumbing Code;
         (d)   Uniform Fire Code;
         (e)   Uniform Building Code Standards;
         (f)   Uniform Fire Code Standards;
         (g)   Uniform Housing Code;
         (h)   Uniform Sign Code;
         (i)   Uniform Code for Dwelling Construction; and
         (j)   Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings.
      (2)   A copy of each of the codes and any ordinances providing for
amendments, modifications, additions, or deletions in such codes shall be
maintained on file in the Town Office, where they shall be available for public
inspection during normal business hours.
      (3)   No person, firm, or corporation shall build, erect, or cause to be
built or erected on any lot within the corporate limits of the town, any
building or structure without first securing a permit from the town for same.
      (4)   No person, firm, or corporation shall build, erect, or cause to
build or erect any additions to existing buildings or structures without first
securing a permit from the town for same.
      (5)   No person, firm, or corporation shall move or cause to be moved
onto any lot within the corporate limits of the town any building or buildings
or parts of buildings without first securing a permit from the town for same.
      (6)   A building permit shall become null and void if work or
construction authorized is not commenced within 180 days from the date of
issuance, or if construction or work is suspended or abandoned for a period of
180 days at any time after the work is commenced.
(Prior Code, § 11-1)
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) above shall be fully in force and effect except
that no building inspector shall be required to be furnished by the town. It
shall be the responsibility of the property owner to ensure that any building,
plumbing, mechanical, or construction work performed follows division (A)
above.
      (2)   (a)   The town assumes no duty of care by virtue of the adoption or
amendment of division (A) above. No person is justified in relying upon the
approval of a plan, the results of an inspection, or the issuance of a
certificate of inspection or occupancy; such approvals, inspections, and
certificates are not a guarantee that the plan or work so approved, inspected,
or certified in fact complies with all the requirements of this subchapter.
         (b)   It is the duty of the person owning, controlling, or
constructing any building or structure to ensure that the work is done in
accordance with this subchapter, and it is such person and not the town who is
responsible for damages caused by negligent breach or such duty.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2015; Ord. passed 8-14-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ESTABLISHED TRAILER PARK. Any land located within the town which has
obtained a permit for said trailer park as of the passage date of the ordinance
codified herein.
   LOT AREA. The total area reserved for exclusive use of the occupants of a
mobile home or trailer.
   LOT LINE. A line bounding the lots as shown on the accepted plan or plat.
   PERMIT. A written document issued by the Town Council or its designated
official, signed by the Mayor and designated Town Clerk, permitting any person
to operate and maintain a mobile home park or to locate, place, use, or
establish a mobile home within the town under the provisions of this
subchapter.
   PERSON. Any firm, individual, trust, partnership, and/or public or private
corporation.
   PLAT. Any map, town plat, lot plan, or chart indicating the location and
boundaries of properties consisting of one or more lots for mobile home or
trailers.
   MOBILE HOME or TRAILER PARK. Any land within the town upon which two or more
trailers or mobile homes shall be parked and occupied for living purposes.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land located within or without a mobile home
park for the placement of a mobile home or trailer and exclusive use of its
occupants.
   SITE. A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof
for the use, placement, or location of a mobile home or mobile homes, and which
is described by reference to a plat or by a metes and bounds description.
   TRAILER or MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   The words TRAILER or MOBILE HOME are used interchangeably in this
subchapter and shall mean any vehicle or similar portable structure mounted or
designed for mounting on wheels, used or intended for use for dwelling
purposes, including any structural additions thereto, except parked and
unoccupied camping type trailers.
      (2)   Any such vehicle or structure shall be deemed a MOBILE HOME or
TRAILER whether or not the wheels have been removed therefrom and whether or
not resting upon a temporary or permanent foundation.
(Prior Code, § 11-2) (Ord. 111, passed 10-15-1980)
§ 150.22 PLACEMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   Unless already located or established within an established mobile home park
or lot, no mobile home or trailer shall be located, parked, used, or placed
upon any site or lot within the town without the owner or occupant thereof
having first obtained a permit as provided herein this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-3) (Ord. 111, passed 10-15-1980) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 APPLICATION; LICENSE.
   Any person desiring to establish a mobile home park within the town shall
make written application therefor upon a form supplied by the office of the
Town Clerk, and said application shall include the following:
   (A)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person desiring to
establish such mobile home park;
   (B)   A site plan showing the location of the park and lot sizes for the
mobile homes and trailers and location of all streets, alleys, and parks, if
any;
   (C)   The location of all structures to be placed in the park other than
mobile homes;
   (D)   The location of all sewer, water, and public utility easements;
   (E)   Written approval from the State Department of Public Health indicating
that the water and sewer systems comply with the requirements of the State
Department of Public Health;
   (F)   Written approval indicating that all structures to be placed thereon
comply with the state and town fire and building codes; and
   (G)   An application for a permit for a mobile home park shall be
accompanied by a certified check, cash, or money order in the amount of $300,
plus the cost of labor and materials, for sewer hook up and water hook up for a
three-fourth-inch tap.
(Prior Code, § 11-4) (Ord. 111, passed 10-15-1980)
§ 150.24 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Trailer parks shall have a four-inch sewer line to each trailer, and
the mainline to the town sewer shall be of proper size to carry the sewage to
the town sewer line. The town will furnish and set electric meter posts on the
property line.
   (B)   Trailer parks must furnish off-street parking on the site plan.
   (C)   The site plan for a mobile home park must demonstrate that the
proposed location is well drained, not adjacent to any swamps or marshes, and
has an adequate supply of water under pressure and sewer facilities for each
mobile home space.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued unless the sewer system for the entire
mobile home park is discharged into a public sewer approved by the State
Department of Public Health.
   (E)   Any mobile home or trailer permitted in or outside a mobile home park
shall comply with any duly adopted and applicable building codes of the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-5) (Ord. 111, passed 10-15-1980) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25 PLACEMENT OUTSIDE MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to locate, park, use, or place any mobile home or
trailer on any lots or sites within the town which is outside an established
mobile home park shall be required to make applications therefore upon a form
supplied by the office of the Town Clerk, and said application shall set forth
the following:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person desiring to
place the mobile home or trailer;
      (2)   The exact legal description of the town lot or site upon which said
mobile home or trailer will be placed and indicating that such location is
within an area previously zoned;
      (3)   The location of the sewer, water, and public utility easements for
use by such mobile home or trailer, if any; and
      (4)   Written plans and specifications showing that said mobile home or
trailer will have no fewer than two exits consisting of doors and pop-out
windows.
   (B)   All applications for a permit to locate a mobile home shall be
accompanied by a certified check, cash, or money order in the amount of $500
for water, sewer, and electrical connections.
   (C)   No mobile home outside of a trailer park shall be located nearer than
ten feet to the property sideline or lot sideline of said town lot, and no
nearer than 20 feet back from the street line or 20 feet nearer the alley line
of the said lots.
(Prior Code, § 11-6) (Ord. 111, passed 10-15-1980) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 SKIRTING.
   Any mobile home or trailer, whether located in or outside the established
mobile home park, shall be supported by fireproof material and shall be skirted
with fire-resistant materials from the floor to grade level within 90 days
after placement, and all connections between any mobile home or trailer and the
sewer system shall be sealed airtight with a trap or vent in place. All mobile
homes or trailers shall be furnished with electrical meter posts which will be
set by the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-7) (Ord. 111, passed 10-15-1980) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.27 PLACEMENT AND STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE/COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS AND PROPANE
TANKS.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or other entity shall place, locate, or
otherwise use any propane tank for the purpose of storing or using propane gas
for home heating use within the town limits except as herein provided.
   (B)   Prohibitions herein this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Propane storage tanks of a capacity used for cooking grills, camper
trailers, or RVs which are used for cooking and heating; and
      (2)   Filling stations for propane tanks shall be exempt from this
section.
   (C)   The town shall be exempt from this section for use of propane tank
back-up for generators used for emergency purposes to supply the town with
water.
(Prior Code, § 11-8)
   (D)   Except for such tanks and installations permitted by law, installed
and operated according to applicable laws and regulations, it shall be unlawful
to store or allow any accumulation of combustible or explosive matter or
wastepaper, boxes, wood shavings, or any other flammable materials especially
susceptible to fire and so situated as to endanger life or property.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
(Ord. 284, passed 3-14-2018) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.28 BUILDING PLACEMENT UPON LOTS; YARD SIZE.
   (A)   There shall be established minimum distances for the placement of
buildings upon lots in the corporate limits of the town as set forth in
division (B) below.
   (B)   The minimum distances are set as follows:
      (1)   Residential:
Corner lots                               -
Principal building and accessory       20 feet from street lot line; 20 feet
building, front yard                   from side street lot line
Minimum front yard                        -
Principal building and detached garage 20 feet from street lot line
Minimum rear yard                         -
Principal building and detached garage 10 feet from alley line
Accessory building                     5 feet from alley line
Minimum side yard                         -
Principal building                     5 feet from lot line
Accessory building                     3 feet from lot line
 
      (2)   Business and commercial:
 
Minimum front setback 40 feet from centerline of street
Minimum side yard     None required
Notes to Table:
The business and commercial area is considered to be on Laramie Avenue from
the railroad north to Otis Street.
 
   (C)   All buildings placed or erected in the town and not located on any
dedicated avenue, street, or alley prior to the adoption of the ordinance
codified herein are exempted from the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 11-9) (Ord. passed 7-6-2010) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.29 FENCING.
   Fencing requirements for new fences are as follows.
   (A)   They shall not cross the property line of owner’s property.
   (B)   All fences shall be approved by the Town Council.
   (C)   When replacing an existing fence that is within property boundaries, a
permit is not needed.
(Prior Code, § 11-10) (Ord. 276, passed 1-11-2017)
**** BUILDING NUMBERING ****
§ 150.40 BUILDING NUMBERING.
   (A)   Every person who shall own or control a dwelling house (or other
building within the town) fronting on a street and avenue shall erect,
maintain, and display in a conspicuous place on such building the proper
numbers.
(Prior Code, § 14-7)
   (B)   Every mobile home not in a mobile home park shall be numbered as
required by division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 14-8)
   (C)   (1)   Every lot space within a mobile home park shall be numbered in
consecutive numerical order beginning with the number one.
      (2)   The owner of every mobile home park shall place numbers of each
mobile home within the park in numerals at lease four inches in height and at
least seven feet above ground level, the same to be placed on either corner of
the mobile home on the approach side as determined by the Town Fire Department.
Every mobile home within a mobile home park shall be numbered to correspond to
the lot space.
(Prior Code, § 14-9)
**** MOBILE HOMES FOR RESIDENTIAL OCCUPATION ****
§ 150.55 JURISDICTION; AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter shall govern the use and operation of all mobile homes used
for residential occupancy located within the incorporated limits of the town.
It is the intent of this subchapter to empower the town, through the Police
Department, to regulate mobile homes within the town pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §§
15-1-101 through 15-1-103.
(Ord. 260, passed 6-10-2015)
§ 150.56 DEFINITION.
   MOBILE HOME or MANUFACTURED HOME shall be defined as a structure transported
in one or more sections which, in traveling mode, is eight body feet in width
or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more
square feet, and which is built on a chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes plumbing and electrical systems.
(Ord. 260, passed 6-10-2015)
§ 150.57 PERMIT; PLACEMENT FACTORS.
   No mobile home shall be erected, set up, or brought onto property within the
town without first applying for and receiving a building permit. When issuing
the building permit, the Town Council or its designee, upon submission of
photographs or any other means portraying the condition of the mobile home,
shall consider the following factors:
   (A)   Age of manufacture;
   (B)   Condition of siding, windows, doors, roofing, and skirting;
   (C)   Condition of electrical wiring;
   (D)   Condition of plumbing;
   (E)   Condition of the interior of the mobile home;
   (F)   Whether the new mobile home is replacing a previously established
mobile home;
   (G)   Location of the lot where mobile home is to be placed; and
   (H)   Overall appearance of the mobile home.
(Ord. 260, passed 6-10-2015; Ord. 302, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.58 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES/CODES.
   (A)   The location of mobile/manufactured homes shall comply with the
applicable town provisions on setbacks in §
150.28.
   (B)   All mobile/manufactured homes shall comply with the ordinances
codified herein this subchapter as well as
Chapter 152 of this code.
(Ord. 260, passed 6-10-2015) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
150.01 will result in a citation into Municipal Court for resolution by fine
and town costs for correcting the violation.
   (C)   The penalty for not complying with §
150.03 shall be a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Any person, persons, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of
§
150.28 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense to which the costs of
prosecution shall be added.
(Ord. 254, passed - -; Ord. passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 257, passed 7-9-2014)
CHAPTER 151: SIDEWALKS, STREETS, AND ALLEYS
Section
Sidewalks and Curbs
   
151.01   Responsibility of adjoining landowners
   
151.02   Order to construct, reconstruct, or repair
   
151.03   Commencement of work
   
151.04   Failure to perform order
**** SIDEWALKS AND CURBS ****
§ 151.01 RESPONSIBILITY OF ADJOINING LANDOWNERS.
   All owners of land adjoining any streets, roads, alleys, or other public
ways in the municipality shall construct, reconstruct, or repair sidewalks and
curbs along such streets, roads, alleys, or other public ways adjoining to such
land when ordered to do so by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 14-1)
§ 151.02 ORDER TO CONSTRUCT, RECONSTRUCT, OR REPAIR.
   (A)   When an order is issued to a property owner to construct, reconstruct,
or repair sidewalks or curbs, the order shall be in writing and shall designate
the location, manner of construction, and construction material, width, and
grade of such sidewalk or curb to be constructed, reconstructed, or repaired,
provided that the specifications of the governing body shall not be such as to
require any property owner to construct a sidewalk or curb of different
material or in a different manner than is required of the owners of other land
in the same block fronting the same street, road, alley, or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 14-2)
   (B)   The construction, reconstruction, or repair of sidewalks and curbs
shall be ordered when safe and satisfactory walkways are to be provided for
children en route to or from school or when, because of existing conditions in
any area of the municipality, the public safety, convenience, and general
welfare will be served by the construction, reconstruction, or repair of such
sidewalks and curbs.
(Prior Code, § 14-3)
   (C)   The written order provided for in division (A) above shall be served
personally upon the property owner, if he or she is to be found within the
municipality, by a law enforcement representative to make such service. Service
shall be registered or certified mail if the owner lives outside the
municipality and his or her address is known; otherwise, such order shall be
published once in a newspaper of general circulation published in the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 14-4)
§ 151.03 COMMENCEMENT OF WORK.
   When an order has been served, mailed, or published, as provided for in §
151.02(C), the owner shall, within two weeks after such service, mailing, or
publication, commence the construction, reconstruction, or repair of such
sidewalk or curb and finish same without delay.
(Prior Code, § 14-5)
§ 151.04 FAILURE TO PERFORM ORDER.
   In the event an owner fails to proceed as provided in §
151.03, the municipality shall proceed without delay to cause the sidewalk or
curb to be constructed, reconstructed, or repaired, paying for the cost thereof
out of available funds of the municipality authorized by law, and shall
immediately assess and levy double the cost thereof against the lot or parcel
of land upon which such sidewalk or curb shall front and certify the amount to
the County Treasurer, where it shall be collected in the manner provided for
the collection of municipal taxes and shall, upon becoming delinquent, be
subjected to the same interest, penalty, and liens as other delinquent
municipal taxes.
(Prior Code, § 14-6)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Qualifying for federal flood insurance
   
152.07   Violation
   
152.08   Applicable lands
   
152.09   Establishing special flood hazard areas
   
152.10   Development permit
   
152.11   Abrogation; greater restrictions
   
152.12   Interpretation
   
152.13   Disclaimer; liability
   
152.14   Compliance
   
152.15   Stop work order
   
152.16   Severability
Administration
   
152.30   Floodplain Administrator
   
152.31   Requirement to submit new technical data
   
152.32   Permit procedures
   
152.33   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.45   Construction/substantial improvement requirements
   
152.46   Specific standards
   
152.47   Subdivision proposals
   
152.48   Shallow flooding areas
   
152.49   Floodways
 
   
152.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The legislature of the state has in Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-103 delegated
the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the Town Council does ordain as follows.
   (B)   The town elects to comply with the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Act of 1968 (Pub. Law No. 90-488, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., as
amended). The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is a voluntary program
administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), a component of
the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
      (1)   The town’s community officials have elected to join the program and
participate and enforce this flood damage prevention chapter and the
requirements and regulations of the NFIP.
      (2)   (a)   The NFIP, established in this division (B), provides that
areas of the town having a special flood hazard be identified by FEMA, and that
floodplain management measures be applied in such flood hazard areas.
         (b)   Furthermore, the town may elect to administer the flood damage
prevention chapter to areas not identified as special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) by FEMA on the community’s effective flood insurance rate map (FIRM) if
the community has documentation to support that there is an inherent risk of
flooding in such areas.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
by floodwaters, which results in potential loss of life and property, health,
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief; all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the town.
   (B)   These potential flood losses are caused by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains that are known
to cause increases in flood heights and velocities;
      (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by structures vulnerable to
floods because they are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages; and
      (3)   Uses deemed unsuitable for floodplain areas or that do not account
for the increased flood risk.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare of the community and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize damage to public infrastructure, including but not limited to
utilities, streets, and bridges that are susceptible to flooding;
   (C)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions caused by flooding;
   (D)   Minimize public expenditures on flood control projects;
   (E)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and are generally undertaken at the expense of the public;
   (F)   Protect and safeguard the welfare and safety of first responders
should an emergency response is needed;
   (G)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (H)   Promote that potential buyers are notified if properties are in a
flood area.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   To accomplish the purposes outlined in §
152.03, this chapter applies the following methods:
   (A)   Restricts or prohibits land uses that are dangerous to health, safety,
or property in times of flooding, or cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities;
   (B)   Requires that land uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
that serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controls the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Controls filling, grading, dredging, and other developments that may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevents or regulates the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazards to other lands.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded during any given year (1% annual chance flood). The
terms 100-YEAR FLOOD and 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD are synonymous. The term does
not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every 100 years.
Mandatory flood insurance requirements may apply.
   100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN. The area of land susceptible to being inundated due to
the occurrence of a 1% annual chance flood.
   500-YEAR FLOOD. A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD).
The term does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every 500
years, and mandatory flood insurance requirement generally does not apply.
   500-YEAR FLOODPLAIN. The area of land susceptible to being inundated due to
the occurrence of a 0.2% annual chance flood.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is on the same parcel of property as a
principal structure. Its use is incidental to the use of the principal
structure, and the ownership of the ACCESSORY STRUCTURE is the same owner as of
the principal structure. An ACCESSORY STRUCTURE is a nonresidential structure
of low value that is used solely for the parking of vehicles and storage of
tools, materials, or equipment. No human habitation is allowed within an
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
   ADDITION. Any improvement that expands the enclosed footprint or increases
the square footage of an existing structure. This includes lateral additions
added to the side, front, or rear of a structure; vertical additions added on
top of a structure; and enclosures added underneath a structure.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform that originates at the apex. It is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. See ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future-conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH Zone on a
community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the FHBM. After detailed rate making has been
completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined
into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A,
or V1-30, VE, or V. For the purposes of these regulations, the term SPECIAL
FLOOD HAZARD AREA is synonymous in meaning with the phrase AREA OF SPECIAL
FLOOD HAZARD.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD-RELATED EROSION HAZARD. The land within a community
that is most likely to be subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The
area may be designated as Zone E on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After
the detailed evaluation of the SPECIAL FLOOD-RELATED EROSION HAZARD AREA, in
preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be further refined.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the 1% annual
chance flood event. It is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to
be reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the
floodplains of coastal and riverine areas. It is also the elevation shown on
the FIRM and found in the accompanying flood insurance study (FIS) for Zones A,
AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides. A walkout basement that does not require a step up to
grade is not considered a BASEMENT.
   BEST AVAILABLE DATA. Existing flood hazard information adopted by a
community and reflected on an effective FIRM, FBFM, and/or within an FIS report
or draft of preliminary flood hazard information supplied by FEMA or from
another source. Other sources may include but are not limited to state, other
federal agencies, or local studies, the more restrictive of which would be
reasonably used by the community.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system. Any walls below the lowest
floor in a building in a V or VE Zone should give way under wind and water
loads without causing collapse, displacement, or other damage to the elevated
portion of the building of the supporting pilings or columns. BREAKAWAY WALLS
apply only to V or VE Zones.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHANNELIZATION. The artificial creation, enlargement, realignment, or
alteration of a stream channel’s slope, shape, or alignment. Streambank
restoration may be deemed as CHANNELIZATION.
   CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (C.F.R.). The codification of the general and
permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the executive departments
and agencies of the Federal Government.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). FEMA’s comment on a proposed
project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic and/or hydraulic
characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the
existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, and/or the SFHA. The letter
does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether the project, if built as
proposed, would be recognized by FEMA.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). FEMA’s comment
on a proposed structure or property. The letter does not revise an effective
map; it indicates whether the project, if built as proposed, would be removed
from the floodplain.
   CRAWLSPACE. An under-floor space that has its interior floor area (finished
or not) no more than four feet from the bottom floor joist to the next higher
floor elevation, designed with proper openings that equalize hydrostatic
pressures of floodwater, and is not used for habitation.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility or building where even a slight chance of
flooding is too great a threat. Typical CRITICAL FACILITIES include hospitals,
fire stations, police stations, schools, storage of critical records, assisted
living, and similar facilities.
   DEED RESTRICTION. A clause in a deed that limits the future use of the
property in some respect. DEED RESTRICTIONS may impose a vast variety of
limitations and conditions. For example, they may limit the density of
buildings, dictate the types of structures that can be erected, or prevent
buildings from being used for specific purposes or from being used at all.
   DETACHED GARAGE. A building that is used solely for storage of materials or
vehicle parking for up to four housing occupants. If a DETACHED GARAGE is
designed or used for habitation or conducting business, or has multiple
stories, then the building is not considered a DETACHED GARAGE under the NFIP.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, demolition, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage either temporary or permanent of equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built, in the case of a building
in Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (post and
piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water and adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of a building in
Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, an ELEVATED BUILDING also
includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter
walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
floodwaters.
   ENCLOSURE. Enclosed walled in area below the lowest floor of an elevated
building. ENCLOSURES below the BFE may only be used for building access,
vehicle parking, and storage.
   EROSION. The process of the gradual wearing away of landmasses by wind,
water, or other natural agents.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975 for
FIRMS effective before that date. It may also be referred to as EXISTING
STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXISTING STRUCTURES. See EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. The placement of materials such as dirt, sand, or rock to elevate a
structure, property, or portion of a property above the natural elevation of
the site, regardless of where the material was obtained from. The common
practice of removing unsuitable material and replacing with engineered material
is not considered FILL if the elevations are returned to the existing
conditions. Any FILL placed or used prior to the area being mapped as a flood
hazard area is not deemed as FILL.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
      (2)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) that are proximately caused by FLOODING
as defined in this section and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on
the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current
of water and deposited along the path of the current.
      (3)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water accompanied by a
severe storm or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in FLOODING as defined in this section.
   FLOOD INSURANCE MANUAL. The document FEMA produces twice a year and is used
to write flood insurance policies underwritten by the NFIP. The document
contains definitions, policy rates, coverage and limitations, and application
and insurance policy forms.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
Administrator has delineated both the SFHAs and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS) or FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination,
evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
corresponding water surface elevations; or an examination, evaluation, and
determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD OPENING. An opening in the wall of an enclosed structure that allows
floodwaters to automatically enter and exit the enclosure. Refer to FEMA
Technical Bulletin One.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended, and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to an SFHA and to reduce the depths of
associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal barriers,
dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized, flood modifying works are
those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards. FEMA only
accredits levees, both private and public, that have been certified by a
professional engineer or firm in which the certification shows that the levee
has met and continues to meet the minimum regulatory standards cited in 44
C.F.R. § 65.10.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source, whether or not identified by FEMA. See FLOODING.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A community-issued permit or document that is
used for any development that occurs within an SFHA identified by FEMA or the
community. It is used to address the proposed development to ensure compliance
with the community’s ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, mitigation plans, and
floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, and/or
structures and their contents. FLOODPROOFING can either be accomplished in the
form of dry floodproofing in which the structure is watertight below the levels
that need flood protection, or wet floodproofing in permanent or contingent
measures applied to a structure that prevent or provide resistance to damage
from flooding while allowing floodwaters to enter the structure or area.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES. The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state, and local floodplain maps.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of
the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE.
      (1)   A development that cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is
located or carried out in close proximity to water.
      (2)   The term includes docking facilities, port facilities that are
necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship
building and repair facilities. It does not include long-term storage or
related manufacturing facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. In AO
Zones, the HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE is utilized by comparing the lowest floor
elevation to that of the HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE and the depth of the AO Zone.
    HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic reservation programs that have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter, to an
effective FIRM. A LOMA establishes a property’s location in relation to the
SFHA. It is usually issued because a property or structure has been
inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain when the property or structure
is actually or natural high ground above the BFE.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). FEMA’s modification or revision to an entire
or portion of the effective FIRM, or flood boundary and floodway map, or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective BFEs, or the SFHA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA’s amendment, by letter,
to an effective FIRM where fill was brought in or used to elevate a property,
portion of property, or structure above the BFE.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee (or levees)
and associated structures such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. For an
existing structure, it means the lowest point where the structure and ground
touch including but not limited to attached garages, decks, stairs, and
basement windows.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”; however, a
MANUFACTURED HOME may be used for both residential and nonresidential use.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The FHBM or the FIRM for a community issued by FEMA.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other
datum to which BFEs shown on a community’s FIRM are referenced.
   MIXED-USE STRUCTURES. Structures with both a business and a residential
component, but where the area used for business is less than 50% of the total
floor area of the structure.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NO-RISE CERTIFICATIONS. Formal certifications signed and stamped by a
professional engineer licensed to practice in the state, demonstrating thorough
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice that a proposed development will not result in any
increase (zero feet) in flood levels within the community during the occurrence
of a base flood event.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). FEMA’s action whereby one or more map panels
are physically revised and republished.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four-hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including a
tributary) stream, brook, creek, and the like, which can be intermittent or
perennial.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., as amended, which provides for the denial of flood
insurance coverage for any property that the Administrator finds has been
declared by a duly constituted state or local authority to be in violation of
state or local floodplain management regulations. A SECTION 1316 is issued for
a property, not a property owner, and remains with the property even after a
change of ownership.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq., includes substantial improvement and means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
      (1)   The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site (such as the pouring of slab or
footings), the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation.
      (2)   “Permanent construction” does not include land preparation such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
      (3)   For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
culvert, bridge, dam, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured home.
      (1)   STRUCTURE for insurance purposes means:
         (a)   A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully
secured roof which is affixed to a permanent site;
         (b)   A manufactured home (a “manufactured home”, also known as a
“mobile home”, is a structure built on a permanent chassis, transported to its
site in one or more sections, and affixed to a permanent foundation); or
         (c)   A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed
to a permanent foundation that is regulated under the community’s floodplain
management and building ordinances or laws.
      (2)   For insurance purposes, STRUCTURE does not mean a recreational
vehicle or a park trailer or other similar vehicle, except as described in
division (1)(c) above, or a gas or liquid storage tank.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.06 QUALIFYING FOR FEDERAL FLOOD INSURANCE.
   (A)   In accordance with 44 C.F.R. § 59.2(b) of the NFIP regulation, to
qualify for the sale of federally subsidized flood insurance, a community must
adopt floodplain management regulations that meet or exceed the minimum
standards of C.F.R. part 60: “These regulations must include effective
enforcement provisions”.
   (B)   In accordance with 44 C.F.R. § 60.1(b) of the NFIP regulations: “These
regulations must be legally-enforceable, applied uniformly throughout the
community to all privately and publicly owned land within flood-prone (i.e.,
mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas, and the community must provide that
the regulations take precedence over less restrictive conflicting local laws,
ordinances, or codes”.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.07 VIOLATION.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 APPLICABLE LANDS.
   [Reserved.]
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.09 ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   [Reserved.]
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.10 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   [Reserved.]
Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.11 ABROGATION; GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   [Reserved.]
Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.12 INTERPRETATION.
   [Reserved.]
Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.13 DISCLAIMER; LIABILITY.
   [Reserved.]
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.14 COMPLIANCE.
   [Reserved.]
Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.15 STOP WORK ORDER.
   [Reserved.]
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.16 SEVERABILITY.
   [Reserved.]
Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 152.30 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer or administrative officer is hereby appointed
the Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this
chapter and other appropriate sections of the NFIP Regulations and 44 C.F.R.
pertaining to floodplain management.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Uphold the goals of the community and the NFIP to reduce risk when
possible and increase the community’s resistance to future disasters;
      (2)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter, including the actual elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement or crawlspace) of all new or substantially improved
structures, and any floodproofing certificates including the data supporting
such certificates;
      (3)   Maintain and hold open, for public inspection, maps that identify
and locate the boundaries of the SFHAs to which this chapter applies, including
but not limited to the FIRM;
      (4)   Review development proposals to determine whether a proposed
building site, including sites designed for the placement of manufactured
homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (5)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits
required by the adoption of this chapter;
      (6)   Ensure that all necessary permits have been obtained from those
federal, state, or local governmental agencies (including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334, and the
Endangered Species Act of 1973, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1531 et seq.) from which
prior approval is required;
      (7)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
      (8)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency (which is the State Office of Homeland Security), prior to
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such
notification to FEMA;
      (9)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation;
      (10)   When BFE data has not been provided by FEMA, the Floodplain
Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data and
floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source, including data
provided by the applicant, in order to administer the provisions of this
chapter;
      (11)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, no new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill)
shall be permitted within Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the community’s FIRM
unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one
foot at any point within the community unless the community has adopted higher
standard options;
      (12)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12 of the NFIP Regulations,
a community may approve certain development in Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the
community’s FIRM, which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood
by more than one foot, provided that the community first meets the requirements
of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12 for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA’s CLOMR
process; and
      (13)   If the project is determined or reasonably believed to cause an
adverse effect on the BFE(s), boundaries of the floodplain, or any insurable
structures, technical justification for the proposed development shall be
submitted, and the community may require a CLOMR or LOMR to be submitted prior
to the permit approval or as a requirement of the permit.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.31 REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT NEW TECHNICAL DATA.
   (A)   The property owner or developer shall notify FEMA by submittal of a
LOMR within six months of project completion when an applicant had obtained a
CLOMR from FEMA or when development altered a watercourse, modified floodplain
boundaries, or modified BFE.
   (B)   (1)   The property owner or developer shall be responsible for
preparing technical data to support the CLOMR or LOMR application and paying
any processing or application fees to FEMA.
      (2)   The property owner or developer is responsible for submitting the
CLOMR and LOMR to FEMA and shall provide all necessary data to FEMA if
requested during the review process to ensure the CLOMR or LOMR is issued.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the
Community Acknowledgment Form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application,
until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the
requirements of this chapter and all applicable state, federal, and local laws.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.32 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include but
not be limited to:
      (1)   Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of proposed landscape alterations;
      (2)   Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of existing and proposed structures, including the placement of
manufactured homes;
      (3)   Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHAs;
      (4)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement and crawlspace) of all new and substantially improved
structures, if applicable;
      (5)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), to which any
nonresidential structure (if applicable) shall be floodproofed;
      (6)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure (if applicable) shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of this chapter and the NFIP regulations;
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated because of proposed development, if
applicable;
      (8)   At the community’s discretion, the community may charge a fee for
issuance of floodplain development permits; and
      (9)   Copies of all floodplain development permits and the associated
documents shall become property of the community and a permanent record.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this subchapter and
the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets, bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electric, and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
or erosion damage for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.33 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Appeal and Variance Boards. The Appeal Board or Variance Board, as
established by the community, shall hear and render judgment on requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter after a floodplain development
permit has been denied.
      (1)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgement on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in
the enforcement of administration of this chapter.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to FEMA and the State
Coordinating Agency upon issuing a variance.
      (4)   (a)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in this section have been fully
considered.
         (b)   As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (5)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter.
      (6)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (7)   (a)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
         (b)   The term SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT does not include any alteration
of a structure or facility listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   (B)   Prerequisites for granting variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance considers the
need of ingress and egress during times of floods and will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, conflict with existing local laws or ordinances, and/or does not
jeopardize first responders’ health and welfare.
      (2)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the BFE and that the cost of flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
      (3)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
         (a)   The criteria outlined in this section is met; and
         (b)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
**** FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION ****
§ 152.45 CONSTRUCTION/SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required provisions for new construction/substantial improvements. In
all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements.
      (1)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
      (4)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters.
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be designed or located to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure only, unless a higher
standard option is selected, before the damage occurred.
         (a)   This term also applies to structures which have incurred any
damage that equals or exceeds 50% of the structure’s market value regardless of
the actual repair work performed.
         (b)   When a structure or building has been determined as
SUBSTANTIALLY DAMAGED, any work or repair on said structure or building will be
considered as substantial improvement and will be required to meet the
development requirements set forth in this chapter for substantial improvement.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a building or structure if the
cumulative cost of the entire project equals or exceeds 50%, unless a higher
standard option is selected below, of the market value of the structure only
(not of the structure and land value combined) before the improvement or repair
is started; then the work shall be considered as SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. If
the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENTS regardless of the actual repair work performed. For
substantial damage, refer to division (C) below. The term does not, however,
include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the Building
Official, and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions;
or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (C)   Determination of substantial improvement and substantial damage. For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, and any other improvement
of or work on such buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in
coordination with the applicable community officials and staff, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser of
the building or structure only, not of land and building, before the start of
construction of the proposed work. In the case of repair, the market value of
the building or structure shall be the market value before the damage occurred
and before any repairs are made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in division (B) above;
      (4)   Utilize FEMA’s substantial improvement/substantial desk reference
when making any determination on substantial improvement and/or substantial
damage;
      (5)   The substantial improvement regulations apply to all of the work
that is proposed as the improvement, even if multiple permits are issued.
Therefore, the determination of the cost of the improvement should consider all
costs of all phases of the work before issuance of the first permit; and
      (6)   Notify the applicant that if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with this chapter is required.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.46 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to the BFE unless a freeboard option is noted below.
      (1)   If a freeboard option is noted, new construction and substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the
freeboard elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land
surveyor shall submit certified elevations to the Floodplain Administrator that
the standards of this chapter are satisfied.
      (2)   Residential construction freeboard higher standard option: the town
has elected to adopt a freeboard option for new construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure. The freeboard option requires that
lowest floor elevation to be built above the BFE by the height selected.
      (3)   The town has elected a one and one-half feet of freeboard, meaning
the lowest floor must be built one and one-half feet above the BFE.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the base
flood level unless a freeboard option is noted below, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base
flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/
or review structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction,
and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this division (B). A record
of such certification that includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   If the use or occupancy of the building changes in the future to
residential, then the dry floodproofing of the structure cannot be used when
determining compliance of the structure to the residential construction of
division (A) above. As such, the building will not be grandfathered into
compliance and will be required to be brought into compliance with the
residential construction requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are to be used solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement and are
subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. The development and construction of the structure must conform
with the provision in FEMA/Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) Technical
Bulletins 1 and 2. Certification and documentation from a professional,
licensed engineer, or architect is required if the structure’s lowest floor is
built below the BFE.
   (D)   Crawlspace. New construction and substantial improvements built on a
crawlspace or subgrade (below-grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the
development is designed and meets or exceeds the standards found in FEMA’s
Technical Bulletins 1, 2, and 11, which include but are not limited to the
following provisions.
      (1)   The structure must be affixed to a permanent foundation designed
and adequately anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of
the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is
not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than five feet per second
unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design professional, such as a
registered architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood vent opening can be no
more than one foot above the LAG.
      (3)   The crawlspace enclosure must have proper openings that allow
equalization of hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. To achieve this, a minimum of one square inch of flood opening is
required per one square foot of the enclosed area subject to flooding.
      (4)   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, piers, or other materials that extend below the BFE. Ductwork, in
particular, must either be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters.
      (5)   Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated
above the BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within
the system components during flood conditions.
      (6)   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more
than two feet below the LAG.
      (7)   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the lowest
interior grade of the crawlspace floor to the bottom of the floor joist of the
next higher floor, cannot exceed four feet at any point.
      (8)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained
within a reasonable time after a flood event.
      (9)   Buildings with below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace
construction with the interior elevation at or above the LAG.
   (E)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Requires that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on
a community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include but are not limited to use of over-
the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Requires that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured home
park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the BFE (unless a higher standard
option was selected), and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   In A1-30, AH, AO and AE Zones, requires that manufactured homes to
be placed or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park to be
elevated so that the lowest floor is at or above the BFE unless a higher
standard option was selected; or the chassis is supported by reinforced piers
no less than 36 inches in height above grade and securely anchored.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Requires that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days (unless the
community has elected a higher standard option) and be fully licensed and ready
for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions;
or
      (2)   Meets the permit requirements of §
152.32 and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes of
this section.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.47 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (C)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   BFE data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other
proposed development, including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, or whichever is
lesser.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electric, and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 152.48 SHALLOW FLOODING AREAS.
   Located within the SFHAs established in §
152.08 are areas designated as “shallow flooding”. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified). If
the community has elected a freeboard standard, then the lowest floor elevation
must be elevated above the highest adjacent grade above the depth number
specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number
is specified), plus the freeboard height option in §
152.46(A).
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified). If
the community has elected a freeboard standard, then the lowest floor elevation
must be elevated above the highest adjacent grade above the depth number
specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number
is specified) plus the freeboard height option selected below;
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section required within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.49 FLOODWAYS.
   Floodways located within SFHAs are extremely hazardous areas due to the
velocity of floodwaters that carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion
potential. The following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Designate a regulatory floodway that will not increase the base flood
level more than one foot;
   (B)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase greater than zero feet
(unless a higher standard option is selected) in flood levels within the
community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this subchapter; and
   (D)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12 of the NFIP Regulations, a
community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that
would result in an increase in BFEs, provided that the community first applies
for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $750 for each
violation assessed daily, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-14-2022)
CHAPTER 153: WIRELESS COMMUNICATION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Access to public right-of-way
   
153.03   Contract/franchise terms
   
153.04   Exemptions
   
153.05   Indemnification
   
153.06   Court
   
153.07   Insurance
   
153.08   Independent review
   
153.09   Federal shot clocks
Permit; Application
   
153.20   Permit required
   
153.21   Application
   
153.22   Proprietary/confidential information
   
153.23   Ordinary maintenance and repair
   
153.24   Application fees; bonds
   
153.25   Effect of permit
   
153.26   Duration; extension
   
153.27   Batch permits
   
153.28   Approval process
   
153.29   Conditional/special use permit
Construction and Placement
   
153.40   ROW construction/installation requirements
   
153.41   Decorative poles; attachments and replacements
   
153.42   Compliance; safety requirements
   
153.43   Macrocell towers
   
153.44   Placement of facilities; appurtenances
   
153.45   Restoration/repair of public ROW
   
153.46   Removal, relocation, and abandonment
 
   
153.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW. Review of an application by the town relating to the
issuance of a permit to determine whether the issuance of a permit is in
conformity with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits and/or receives radio
frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services. This definition
does not apply to broadcast antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use,
or satellite dishes for residential or household purposes.
   ANTENNA ARRAY. A single or group of antenna elements and associated mounting
hardware, transmission lines, remote radio units, or other appurtenances which
share a common attachment device such as mounting frame for the sole purpose of
transmitting or receiving wireless communication signals.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization to the
extent such codes have been adopted by the town, including any amendments.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application under this chapter.
   APPLICATION. A written request, on a form provided by the town, for a
permit.
   COLLOCATION. The mounting or installing of equipment on any existing tower,
building, or structure for the purpose of transmitting or receiving radio
frequency signals for communication purposes.
   DECORATIVE POLE. A pole that is specially designed and placed for aesthetic
purposes.
   DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM. A network consisting of transceiver equipment at
a central hub site to support multiple antenna locations throughout the desired
coverage area.
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. As defined in federal regulations.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Town Council.
   LAWS. Collectively, any and all federal, state, or local laws, statutes,
common laws, codes, and rules, regulations, orders, or ordinances.
   MACROCELL. An antenna or antennas mounted on a tower, ground-based mast, or
rooftops or structures, at a height that provides coverage to the surrounding
area.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. Inspections, testing, or repair that
maintains functional capacity, aesthetic, and structural integrity of a
wireless communication facility and the associated structure, pole, or tower,
and that does not involve impeding, damaging, or disturbing any portion of the
public ROW.
   PERMIT. A written authorization (in electronic or hard copy format) to
install, at a specified location in the public ROW, a wireless communication
facility.
   PERMITTEE. An applicant that has received a permit under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   POLE. A legally constructed pole such as a utility, lighting, or similar
pole made of wood, concrete, metal, or other material, located or to be located
within the public right-of-way.
   PROVIDER. A wireless service provider or wireless infrastructure provider,
including any person that owns or operates wireless communication facilities
within the public ROW.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or PUBLIC ROW. The area on, below, or above property
that has been designated for use as, or is used for, a public roadway, highway,
street, sidewalk, alley, or similar purpose; and for the purposes of this
chapter, shall include use of the public utility easement for wireless
communication facilities.
   PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT. Unless otherwise specified or restricted by terms
of easement, the area on, below, or above a property in which the property
owner has dedicated an easement for use by utilities. PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT
does not include an easement dedicated solely for town use or where the
proposed use by the provider is inconsistent with the terms of any easement
granted to the town.
   REPLACE or REPLACEMENT. In connection with wireless communication facilities
and a corresponding pole, structure, or tower to replace (or the replacement
of) the same with something that is substantially similar in design, size,
color, and any other applicable town regulations.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES. Encompasses facilities that meet the following
conditions.
      (1)   The facilities are mounted on structures 50 feet or less in height
including their antennas, or are mounted on structures no more than 10% taller
than other adjacent structures, or do not extend existing structures on which
they are located to a height of more than 50 feet or by more than 10%,
whichever is greater.
      (2)   Each antenna associated with the deployment, excluding associated
antenna equipment, is no more than three cubic feet in volume.
      (3)   All other wireless equipment associated with the structure,
including the wireless equipment associated with the antenna and any
preexisting associated equipment on the structure, is no more than 28 cubic
feet in volume.
      (4)   The facilities do not require antenna structure registration under
federal law.
      (5)   The facilities are not located on tribal land as defined by federal
law.
      (6)   The facilities do not result in human exposure to radio frequency
radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards specified under federal
law.
      (7)   The following types of associated ancillary are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer
switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power
and other services.
   STATE. The State of Wyoming.
   STEALTH. A design that minimizes the visual impact of wireless communication
facilities by camouflaging, disguising, screening, or blending them into the
surrounding environment. Examples of STEALTH design include but are not limited
to facilities disguised as trees (monopines), flagpoles, utility and light
poles, bell towers, clock towers, ballfield lights, and architecturally
screened roof-mounted antennas or flush-mounted antennas that are either
painted to match or enclosed in an architecturally applicable box.
   SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE. As defined in federal regulations.
   TOWER. Any structure in the public ROW built for sole or primary purpose of
supporting a wireless communication facility.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the tower
structure at grade to the highest point of the structure including the antenna.
A lightning rod not to exceed ten feet in height shall not be included within
TOWER HEIGHT.
   TOWN. The Town of Fort Laramie, Wyoming.
   TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT. Equipment that facilities transmission for any FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communication service including but not limited
to radio transceivers, antennas, microwave dishes, coaxial or fiber-optic
cable, and backup power supplies. The term includes equipment associated with
wireless communication services including but not limited to private,
broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY or WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
Collectively, the equipment at a fixed location or locations within the public
ROW that enables wireless communication services, including for example: radio
transceivers, support structures, poles, antennas; coaxial, fiber-optic or
other cabling power supplies (including battery backup); and comparable
equipment, regardless of technological configuration, small wireless
facilities, and distribution antenna systems.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. A person, other than a wireless service
provider, that builds or installs towers, wireless transmission equipment,
wireless facilities poles, or wireless support structures.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any wireless service using licensed or unlicensed
spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided to the public.
   WIRELESS SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless service.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 1-2)
§ 153.02 ACCESS TO PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Prior to installing in the public ROW any wireless communication
facility, any pole built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting a
wireless communication facility, or any tower, a person shall enter into an
agreement with the town expressly authorizing use of the public ROW for the
wireless communication facility, pole, or tower proposed to be installed.
   (B)   The agreement shall provide for the attachment to town-owned poles or
structures in the public ROW in addition to poles or structures owned by
unrelated third parties, provided that the applicant secures the written
consent of the third party for such attachment.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2-1) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 CONTRACT/FRANCHISE TERMS.
   (A)   The term of an agreement shall be for up to five years. The agreement
may be renewed for an additional term of five years subject to the mutual
written agreement of the town and provider.
   (B)   (1)   The agreement authorizes the provider’s nonexclusive use of the
public ROW for the sole purpose of installing, maintaining, and operating
wireless communication facilities, including any pole built for the sole or
primary purpose of supporting the wireless communication facilities and any
tower to provide the services expressly authorized in the agreement, subject to
applicable laws, this chapter, and the terms and conditions of the agreement.
      (2)   The agreement authorizes use only of public ROW. Nothing herein
shall authorize the use of the town’s poles, towers, support structures, or
other structures in the public ROW. All use of the town’s poles, towers,
support structures, and other structures in the public ROW shall require a
separate attachment agreement or be specifically provided for in the agreement,
and shall include the payment of fees for such use.
   (C)   The provider shall, at its sole cost and expense, keep and maintain
its wireless communication facilities, poles, support structures, and towers in
the public ROW in safe condition and in good order and repair.
   (D)   In the event of an emergency regarding the provider’s small wireless
facilities or related poles, support structures, or towers, the provider shall
immediately notify the town of the nature of the emergency and planned response
to the emergency.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2-1) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   The existing structures owned by the following two providers are exempt from
this chapter: Visionary Communications and Vista Beam. Both are currently
located in the 2015 water tower, providing internet services to the area. Any
new construction by either company is subject to this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.15)
§ 153.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The applicant and provider shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless
the town, its agents, officers, officials, and employees from any and all
damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, attorneys’ fees, costs, and expenses,
whether for personal injury, death, or property damage, arising out of or in
connection with the activities or performance of the applicant or provider.
   (B)   (1)   In the event the town becomes aware of any actions or claims,
the town shall promptly notify the applicant and provider and reasonably
cooperate in the defense.
      (2)   It is expressly agreed that the town shall have the right to
approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel
providing the town’s defense; and the applicant and provider, as applicable,
shall reimburse the town for any costs, expenses, and attorneys’ fees directly
and necessarily incurred by the town in the course of the defense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.9)
§ 153.06 COURT.
   Venue for any judicial dispute between the town and provider shall be in the
District Court in Torrington, Wyoming.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.10)
§ 153.07 INSURANCE.
   No person shall own or operate a wireless communication facility within the
town without having secured, and at all times maintained in place, insurance
coverage which conforms to the following:
   (A)   Comprehensive general liability, automobile, workers’ compensation,
employer’s liability, and umbrella insurance in the amounts satisfactory to the
town;
   (B)   For a wireless communication facility in the public ROW or on town
property, the commercial general liability insurance policy shall specifically
include the town and its officers, officials, employees, and agents as
additional insureds;
   (C)   All insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or representative
of an insurance company licensed to do business in the state and with a Best’s
rating of at least AA; and
   (D)   Such policies shall not be modified or cancelled without 30 days’
prior written notice being given to the town, and the insurance must be
replaced by the owner of the wireless communication facility up to its original
amount.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.11) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 INDEPENDENT REVIEW.
   (A)   Although the town intends for the town staff to review applications to
the extent feasible, the town may retain the services of an independent
consultant and attorney of its choice to provide technical and legal
evaluations of permit applications. The consultant shall have recognized
qualifications in the field of radio frequency engineering, and the attorney in
the field of wireless communication facilities regulations and approval
process. The review may include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The accuracy and completeness of the items submitted with the
application;
      (2)   The applicability of analysis and techniques and methodologies
proposed by the applicant;
      (3)   The validity of conclusions reached by the applicant; and
      (4)   Whether the proposed small wireless facilities comply with the
applicable approval criteria set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay the cost for any independent consultant and
attorneys’ fees through a deposit, estimated by the town, within ten business
days of the town’s request. When the town requests such payment, the
application shall be deemed incomplete for purposes of application processing
time lines until the deposit is received. In the event that such costs and fees
do not exceed the deposit amount, the town shall refund any unused portion
within 30 days after the final permit is released or if no final permit is
released, within 30 days after the town receives a written request from the
applicant. If the costs and fees exceed the deposit amount, then the applicant
shall pay the difference, and related fees and costs to the town before the
permit is issued the fees shall be limited to a reasonable approximation of
costs, and the costs shall be reasonable.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.12)
§ 153.09 FEDERAL SHOT CLOCKS.
   (A)   Eligible facilities requests.
      (1)   This division (A) implements § 6409(a) of the Spectrum Act, 47
U.S.C. § 1455(a), interpreted by the FCC in its Report and Order No. 14-153,
which requires a state or local government to approve any eligible facilities
request for a modification of an existing tower or base station that does not
result in a substantial change to the physical dimensions of such tower or base
station.
      (2)   Eligible facilities requests shall be governed by the provisions of
federal law including but not limited to application review, 60-day shot clock,
tolling, and the deemed granted remedy. Eligible facilities requests are
subject to administrative review by the town.
   (B)   Small wireless facilities; collocation on existing structures.
      (1)   This division (B) implements the 60-day shot clock, which is
contained in the FCC’s Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, adopted
September 26, 2018, regarding the collocation of small wireless facilities on
existing structures.
      (2)   These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law
including but not limited to application review and incompleteness, resetting
of the 60-day shot clock once upon timely notice of incompleteness, tolling,
and available remedies.
   (C)   Small wireless facilities; construction (new structures). This
division (C) implements the 90-day shot clock, which is contained in the FCC’s
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, adopted September 26, 2018,
regarding the construction of small wireless facilities on new structure. These
requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law including but not
limited to application review and incompleteness, resetting of the 90-day shot
clock once upon timely notice of incompleteness, tolling, and available
remedies.
   (D)   Collocation for other than small wireless facilities. This division
(D) implements, in part, 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications
Act of 1934 as amended, as interpreted by the FCC regarding collocation
applications for other than small wireless facilities including but not limited
to application review, 90-day shot clock, and tolling.
   (E)   New sites or towers. This division (E) implements, in part, 47 U.S.C.
§ 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act of 1934 as amended, as
interpreted by the FCC regarding new site or tower applications including but
not limited to application review, 150-day shot clock, and tolling.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.13)
**** PERMIT; APPLICATION ****
§ 153.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person may construct, install, or maintain in the public ROW any wireless
communication facilities without first receiving a permit from the town.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of an emergency, a provider or its
duly authorized representative may work in the public ROW prior to obtaining a
permit, provided that the provider shall contact the town prior to commencing
the work and shall apply for a permit as soon as reasonably possible, but no
later than 24 hours after commencing the emergency work. For the purposes of
this section, an EMERGENCY means circumstances in which immediate repair to
damaged or malfunctioning facilities is necessary to restore lost service or
prevent immediate harm to persons or property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2-1) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.21 APPLICATION.
   The permit application requirements are as follows:
   (A)   The name, address, telephone number, and email address (including the
emergency contact information) of the applicant;
   (B)   The name, address, and telephone number of all consultants, if any,
acting on behalf of the applicant or provider with respect to the filing of the
application;
   (C)   A description of the proposed work and wireless communication facility
sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (D)   If applicable, a copy of the authorization from the owner of the pole,
tower, or support structure on or in which the wireless communication facility
will be placed or attached;
   (E)   Detailed construction drawings and photo simulations regarding the
proposed wireless communication facility;
   (F)   To the extent the proposed wireless communication facility involves
collocation on a pole, tower, or support structure, a structural report
performed by a state licensed professional engineer evidencing that the pole,
tower, or support structure will support the collocation (or that the pole,
tower, or support structure will be modified to meet structural requirements)
in accordance with applicable codes;
   (G)   For any new aboveground wireless communication facilities: accurate
visual depictions, or representations if not included in the construction
drawings or photo simulations; and
   (H)   Any other submission requirements per published town policies or
regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2-1)
§ 153.22 PROPRIETARY/CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Applications are public records that may be made available pursuant to the
state’s Public Records Act, Wyo. Stat. §§ 16-4-201 through 16-4-205.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the applicant may designate portions of its
application materials that it reasonably believes contain proprietary or
confidential information as “proprietary” or “confidential” by clearly marking
each portion of such materials accordingly, and the town shall treat the
information as proprietary and confidential, subject to the state’s Public
Records Act and the town’s determination that the applicant’s request for
confidential or proprietary treatment of the application materials is
reasonable and in compliance with such law. The town shall not be required to
incur any costs to protect the application materials from disclosure, other
than the town’s routine procedures for complying with the state’s Public
Records Act.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2-1)
§ 153.23 ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   A permit shall not be required for ordinary maintenance and repair. The
provider or other person performing the ordinary maintenance and repair shall
obtain any permits required by applicable laws and shall notify the town in
writing at least 48 hours before performing the ordinary maintenance and
repair.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2-1) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.24 APPLICATION FEES; BONDS.
   (A)   All applications pursuant to this chapter shall be accompanied by the
requisite fees required by the town as follows:
      (1)   An application fee of $500 for in or outside the town’s rights-of-
way that can include up to four small wireless facilities;
      (2)   A $100 fee for every additional small wireless facility; and
      (3)   A yearly fee of $270 per year per small wireless facility in the
town’s right-of-way.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided in an agreement or agreed to in writing by
the town, a performance or construction bond or other form of surety acceptable
to the town equal to at least 100% of the estimated cost of the work within the
public ROW shall be provided before the applicant commences work.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2-1) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.25 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit from the town authorizes an applicant to undertake only the
activities in the public ROW specified in the application and permit, and in
accordance with this chapter and any conditions included in the permit.
   (B)   (1)   A permit does not authorize attachment to or use of existing
poles, towers, support structures, or other structures in the public ROW. A
permittee or provider must obtain all necessary approvals from the owner of any
pole, tower, support structure, or other structure prior to any attachment or
use. A permit does not create a property right for the applicant.
      (2)   The applicant shall not interfere with other uses or users of the
public ROW.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2-1) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.26 DURATION; EXTENSION.
   Any permit for construction issued under the chapter shall be valid for a
period of one year, provided that the one year period may be extended for up to
an additional one year, upon approval by the Town Council or its designee, upon
a written request of the applicant (made prior to the end of the initial one-
year period) if the failure to complete construction is a result of
circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the applicant.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2-1)
§ 153.27 BATCH PERMITS.
   An applicant may simultaneously submit not more than ten applications for
wireless communication facilities or may file a single, consolidated
application covering such wireless communication facilities, provided that the
proposed wireless communication facilities are to be deployed on the same type
of structure using similar equipment within the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2-1)
§ 153.28 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Approval process. A complete application is submitted, reviewed by
staff, approved by the Town Council, all fees are paid, and a permit is
obtained by the applicant or provider.
      (1)   Each new, modified, or replacement pole, tower, or structure
installed in the public ROW shall not exceed the height limits of the
respective to current heights. If a height limit is exceeded, then either a
conditional use permit or special use permit is required with an additional fee
of $50 each.
      (2)   The applicant complies with all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Design standards. Subject to division (A)(1) above, all poles for the
sole or primary purpose of supporting wireless communication facilities may be
approved through administrative review if the following design guidelines are
also acceptable to the town:
      (1)   Height, shape, design, and color for poles and related equipment;
      (2)   Number, location, and styles of poles that may be installed or
used;
      (3)   Aesthetic approach for different types of poles related to
equipment;
      (4)   Construction approach per wireless communication facility,
including powering and metering;
      (5)   Structural integrity;
      (6)   Setbacks or poles and ground-mounted equipment;
      (7)   Ground-mounted equipment for small wireless facilities may be only
used to house equipment in support of the operation of the facilities;
      (8)   Lighting, marking, and noise requirements;
      (9)   Fencing, landscaping, screening, and signage requirements;
      (10)   Collocation analysis; and
      (11)   Use of decorative poles, where necessary.
   (C)   Written reports. A written report will be prepared, signed, and sealed
by a state licensed professional engineer or qualified employee of the
applicant, which assesses whether the proposed small wireless facility
demonstrates compliance with the radio frequency emissions limits established
by the FCC. The qualified employee of the applicant shall submit his or her
qualifications with the report.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.2) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.29 CONDITIONAL/SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   All other proposed installations within the public ROW involving wireless
communication facilities (for example, where the facilities do not qualify as a
small wireless facilities), shall require the issuance of a conditional use
permit or special use permit under the town’s ordinances.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.14) Penalty, see §
153.99
**** CONSTRUCTION AND PLACEMENT ****
§ 153.40 ROW CONSTRUCTION/INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lighting. Towers may not be artificially lighted unless required by
public safety, the FAA, or applicable town ordinances.
   (B)   State or federal requirements. All towers and antennas must meet
current standards and regulations of the FAA, FCC, and any other agency of the
local, state, or federal government with authority to regulate towers and
antennas.
   (C)   Building codes. To ensure the structural integrity of poles and
towers, the owner of a pole or tower shall ensure that the pole or tower is
maintained in compliance with industry standards and applicable state and local
building code standards.
   (D)   Public notice. For the purpose of this chapter, any application for a
wireless communication facility, including small wireless facilities,
variances, exceptions, or appeals of a request for a permit, requires public
notice to all adjoining property owners and all owners of surrounding
properties as may be required by town ordinances.
   (E)   Equipments cabinets. The equipment cabinets shall comply with all
applicable building codes and ordinances. A site plan is also required.
   (F)   Inventory of existing sites. Not more than one time per year, each
applicant for a macrocell tower shall provide to the town an inventory of the
provider’s existing towers, antennas, or sites approved for towers or antennas,
that are either within the jurisdiction of the town or within one mile of the
border thereof, including specific information about the location and tower
height. The town may share such information with other applicants applying for
administrative review or other permits under this chapter or other
organizations seeking to locate antennas within the jurisdiction of the town;
provided however, that the town is not, by sharing such information, in any way
representing or warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
   (G)   Color. To the extent feasible, the antennas shall be placed and
colored to blend into the architectural detail and coloring of the host
structure. Towers shall be painted a color that best allows them to blend into
the surroundings. The use of grays, blues, greens, dark bronze, browns, or
other site- specific colors may be appropriate; however, each case shall be
evaluated individually.
   (H)   Signs. No facilities may bear any signage other than that required by
law or expressly permitted or required by the town.
   (I)   Visual impact. All wireless communication facilities in residential
districts and historic and downtown areas shall be sited and designed with
stealth features to minimize adverse visual impacts on surrounding properties
and traveling public to the greatest extent reasonably possible, consistent
with the proper functioning of the wireless communication facilities.
      (1)   Such wireless communication facilities and equipment enclosures
shall be integrated through location and design to blend in with the existing
characteristics of the site. Stealth and concealment techniques must be
appropriate given the proposed location, design, visual environment, and nearby
uses, structures, and natural features.
      (2)   Such wireless communication facilities shall also be designed to
either resemble the surrounding landscape and other natural features where
located in proximity to natural surroundings, or be compatible with the built
environment, or be consistent with other uses and improvements permitted in the
relevant area.
   (J)   Building-mounted WCFs.
      (1)   All transmission equipment shall be concealed within existing
architectural features to the extent feasible. Any new architectural features
proposed to conceal the transmission equipment shall be designed to mimic the
existing underlying structure or conform to the underlying use, and shall use
materials in similar quality, finish, color, and texture as the existing
underlying structure.
      (2)   All roof-mounted transmission equipment shall be set back from all
roof edges to the extent feasible, consistent with the need for line-of-sight
transmission and reception of signals.
      (3)   Antenna arrays and supporting transmission equipment shall be
installed so as to camouflage, disguise, or conceal them to make them closely
compatible with and blend into the setting or host structure.
   (K)   Placement and notice.
      (1)   All pole-mounted transmission equipment shall be mounted as close
as technically possible to the pole so as to reduce the overall visual profile
to the extent feasible, subject to applicable safety codes.
      (2)   Prior to the installation or construction of a wireless
communication facility within the public ROW or utility easement, the provider
must notify all utilities located within such public ROW or utility easement
regarding its proposed use of the public ROW or utility easement.
   (L)   Accessory equipment. All accessory equipment located at the base of a
pole or tower shall be placed (at the provider’s choice) in an existing
building, underground, or in an equipment shelter or cabinet that is:
      (1)   Designed to blend in with existing surroundings, using
architecturally compatible construction and colors; and
      (2)   Located so as to be unobtrusive as possible consistent with the
proper functioning of the wireless communication facilities.
   (M)   Site design flexibility. Individual sites vary in the location of
adjacent buildings, existing trees, topography, and other local variables.
Therefore, the wireless communication facilities and supporting equipment may
be installed so as to best camouflage, disguise, or conceal them to make
wireless communication facilities more closely compatible with and blend into
the setting or host structure, upon approval of the town.
   (N)   Landscaping, screening, and fencing.
      (1)   Equipment shelters and cabinets and other on-the-ground ancillary
equipment shall be screened with landscaping (except for those in the public
ROW) as required for the location in which they are located or with another
design acceptable to the town. Alternatively, where technically feasible, the
applicant may incorporate the cabinet and other equipment into the base of a
new pole (for example, for a small wireless facility) provided there is
adequate space in the public ROW and that Americans with Disabilities Act
sidewalk accessibility requirements can be met. All provisions of the Americans
with Disabilities Act (including but not limited to clear space requirements)
shall be met by the provider.
      (2)   Except for locations in the public right-of-way, a site-obscuring
fence (for example, wrought iron as opposed to barbed wire) shall be
constructed around each tower and around related support or guy anchors at the
height specified for the particular area. Access shall only be through a locked
gate. Any fence shall comply with the other design guidelines of the town’s
ordinances.
   (O)   New poles. To the extent technically feasible, new poles must be
designed to match the existing light fixtures and other poles, and they shall
serve a dual purpose (for example, new light fixtures, flag pole, or banner
clips).
   (P)   As-builts and maps. The provider shall furnish to the town paper and
electronic maps showing the location of its equipment in the public ROW and as-
built after construction is completed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.3) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.41 DECORATIVE POLES; ATTACHMENTS AND REPLACEMENTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, an applicant
may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative pole or replace a
decorative pole with a new decorative pole unless the town has determined, in
its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has been met.
      (1)   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit.
      (2)   The attachments and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics of the decorative pole.
   (B)   An applicant may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative
pole, replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, or install new
aboveground facilities in the Historic District unless the town has determined,
in its sole description, that each of the following conditions has been met.
      (1)   The applicant qualifies for issuance of a permit.
      (2)   The attachment and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics and character of the decorative pole and historic site.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.4) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.42 COMPLIANCE; SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General safety and compliance with laws. The permittee shall employ
due care during the installation, maintenance, or any other work in the public
ROW, and shall comply with all safety and construction requirements of
applicable laws, town guidelines, standards and practices, and any additional
commonly accepted safety standards.
   (B)   Traffic control. Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the
permittee shall erect a barrier around the perimeter of any excavation and
provide appropriate traffic control devices, signs, and lights to protect,
warn, and guide the public (vehicular and pedestrian) through the work zone.
The manner and use of these devices shall be as described within a traffic
control plan. The permittee shall maintain all barriers and other traffic
control devices and safety devices related to an open excavation until the
excavation is restored to a safe condition or as otherwise directed by the
town.
   (C)   Interference. The permittee shall not interfere with any existing
facilities or structures in the public ROW and shall locate its lines and
equipment in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual traffic patterns
(vehicular or pedestrian), or with the rights or reasonable convenience of
owners of property that abut any public ROW.
   (D)   Utility locates. Before beginning any excavation in the public ROW,
the permittee shall comply with One Call Wyoming.
   (E)   Compliance with permit.
      (1)   (a)   All construction practices and activities shall be in
accordance with the permit and approved final plans and specifications. The
town and its representatives shall be provided access to the work site and such
further information as they may require, ensuring compliance with such
requirements.
         (b)   All work that does not comply with the permit, the approved
plans, and specifications for the work shall be removed at the sole expense of
the permittee. The town may stop work in order to assure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition to obtaining a permit for installation of a wireless
communication facility, an applicant must obtain all other required approvals
as required by the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.5) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.43 MACROCELL TOWERS.
   (A)   Noise study. A noise study shall be conducted if requested by the
town.
   (B)   Site plan. A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type,
height, and width of the proposed tower, on-site land uses and location,
adjacent land uses and location, separation and distances, adjacent roadways,
alleys, photo simulations, a depiction of all proposed transmission equipment,
proposed means of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings or
renderings of the proposed tower, and any other structures, topography,
parking, utility runs, and other information deemed necessary to assure
compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.6) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.44 PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES; APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   The provider shall not locate or maintain its wireless communication
facilities so as to interfere with the use of the public ROW by the town, by
the general public, or by other persons authorized to use or be present in or
upon the public ROW.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever any existing electric utilities, natural gas, water, or
sewer underground line (or other public improvements) and communications
facilities are located underground within a public ROW, the provider with
permission to occupy the same portion of the public ROW shall locate its
wireless communication facilities underground at its own expense.
      (2)   The town may, in its sole discretion, approve aboveground placement
of equipment cabinets, pedestals, and similar equipment. For facilities or
equipment such as wireless communication facilities that cannot, by their
nature, operate unless located above ground, the provider and the town shall
work to find a suitable location for such facilities or equipment, which may be
outside of the public ROW.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.7) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.45 RESTORATION/REPAIR OF PUBLIC ROW.
   (A)   In performing any work in or affecting the public ROW, the provider
and any agent or contractor of the provider shall comply with the provisions of
this chapter and all other applicable laws.
   (B)   (1)   The provider (or it agent or contractor) shall restore, repair,
and replace any portion of the public ROW that is damaged or disturbed by the
provider’s wireless communication facilities or work in or adjacent to the
public ROW as required in this chapter and all other applicable laws.
      (2)   If the provider fails to timely restore, repair, or replace the
public ROW as required in division (B)(1) above, the town or its contractor may
do so, and the provider shall pay the town’s costs and expenses in completing
the restoration, repair, or replacement, including attorneys’ fees and
expenses.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.7) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.46 REMOVAL, RELOCATION, AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Within 30 days following written notice from the town, the provider
shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change, or alter the position of any of its
wireless communication facilities within the public ROW, including relocation
of aboveground wireless communication facilities underground (consistent with
the provisions of this chapter), whenever the town has determined, in its sole
discretion, that such removal, relocation, change, or alteration is necessary
for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any damages the
town may incur as a result of the provider’s failure to remove or relocate its
wireless communication facilities.
   (B)   The town retains the right and privilege to cut or remove any wireless
communication facility located within the public ROW of the town as the town
may determine, in its sole discretion, to be necessary, appropriate, or useful
in response to any public emergency. If circumstances permit, the town shall
notify the provider and give the provider an opportunity to remove its own
facilities prior to cutting or removing the wireless communication facilities.
In all cases, the town shall notify the provider after cutting or removing the
wireless communication facility as promptly as reasonably possible.
   (C)   A provider shall notify the town of abandonment of any wireless
communication facility at the time the decision to abandon is made; however, in
no case shall such notification be made later than 30 days prior to
abandonment. Following receipt of such notice, the provider shall remove its
wireless communication facility at the provider’s own expense unless the town
determines, in its sole discretion, that the wireless communication facility
may be abandoned in place. The provider shall remain solely responsible and
liable for all of its wireless communication facilities until they are removed
from the public ROW unless the town agrees in writing to take ownership of the
abandoned wireless communication facilities.
   (D)   If the provider fails to timely protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change, or alter any of its wireless
communication facilities or remove any of its abandoned wireless communication
facilities as required in this section, the town or its contractor may do so,
and the provider shall pay all costs and expenses related to such work,
including any damages the town incurs arising from the delay and attorneys’
fees and expenses.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.8)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable with
a fine of up to $750 for each violation. Each day that a violation occurs or is
allowed to exist by the applicant or provider constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16 § 2.16)
CHAPTER 154: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING
Section
   
154.01   Declaration and findings
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Hydraulic fracturing prohibited
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 DECLARATION AND FINDINGS.
   It is found and determined that hydraulic fracturing creates the potential
for adverse impacts on the environment, interferes with the rights of citizens
in the enjoyment of their property, and has the potential for adversely
affecting the health, well-being, and safety of persons living and working in
the town. It is also found and determined that the process known as hydraulic
fracturing or fracking creates an increased level of potential harm, which
includes but may not be limited to contamination of ground water. These
potential harms associated with fracking may impact the citizens of the town.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HYDRAULIC FRACTURING or FRACKING. Any method used to increase the inherent
productivity of an oil or gas well by injecting, shooting, or pumping water,
chemicals, or any other liquid into a well.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, firm, partnership, association, or
other business entity that owns, manages, operates, controls, or possesses a
well as principal or as a lessee, contractor, employee, or agent of such
principal.
   WELL. Any shaft or hole drilled, sunk, bored, or dug into the earth or into
underground strata for the extraction or injection of placement of any oil,
liquid, or gas; or any shaft or hole sunk or used in conjunction with such
extraction or injection. The term WELL does not include any shaft or hole sunk,
drilled, bored, or dug into the earth for the sole purpose of testing for, or
pumping or extracting therefrom, potable, fresh, or usable water for household,
domestic, industrial, agricultural, or public use.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-13-2015)
§ 154.03 HYDRAULIC FRACTURING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Hydraulic fracturing or fracking a well is prohibited within the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   No oil or gas lying within or under lands within the corporate limits
of the town shall be extracted by hydraulic fracturing or fracking. This
prohibition shall extend to and include wellheads located outside the corporate
limits of the town.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-13-2015) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be fined up to the sum of
$500. Each day that such person continues to violate this chapter after being
advised by the Mayor or any law enforcement officer of the town that the law
has been violated shall be considered a new offense.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the authority to direct to the Town Attorney or
such other legal counsel as may be employed to institute a civil action seeking
an injunction to prevent the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-13-2015)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Wyoming Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WYOMING STATUTES
Wyo. Stat. Cite Code Section
Wyo. Stat. Cite     Code Section
1-14-102            31.06
1-14-103            31.06
5-6-103             31.01
5-6-210             31.02
5-6-303             31.05
6-2-501             130.02;
                    130.04
6-3-107             70.01
6-3-201             130.07
6-3-204             70.01
6-3-302             130.06
6-3-303             130.06
6-3-404             130.21
6-4-101             130.42
6-4-301—6-4-302   130.41
6-5-204             130.13
6-6-102             130.08
6-6-101—6-6-307   130.08
6-7-101—6-9-104   130.40
6-8-104             130.11
8-1-102             10.05
8-1-103             10.05
8-4-101             10.05
8-4-104             10.05
12-1-101            112.01
12-1-101 et seq.    Ch. 112
12-2-201 et seq.    Ch. 112
12-4-101            Ch. 112;
                    112.02
12-4-104            112.04;
                    112.06
12-4-105            112.11
12-4-106            112.05
12-4-201            112.11
12-4-301            112.09
12-4-302            112.01
12-4-701            112.02
12-5-101            112.07
12-5-101(a)         112.12
12-5-201            112.08;
                    112.11
12-7-101            112.15
14-3-301—14-4-305 130.61
15-1-101            10.05
                    10.01;
                    10.99;
                    50.03;
                    50.06;
                    50.24;
                    Ch. 51;
                    Ch. 52;
15-1-103            Ch. 53;
                    Ch. 54;
                    Ch. 110;
                    130.08;
                    130.09;
                    130.40;
                    130.41;
                    130.43;
                    152.01
15-1-113            Ch. 50
15-1-115            10.01
15-1-116            10.01
15-1-119            10.01;
                    150.20
15-1-127            30.32
15-1-101—15-1-103 150.55
15-2-201(a)         34.02
                    50.24;
15-7-101            Ch. 51;
                    Ch. 53
15-7-407            Ch. 52
15-7-436            Ch. 52
15-7-437            Ch. 52
15-7-101—15-7-490 Ch. 50
15-7-201—15-7-209 50.24;
                    Ch. 53
15-7-401—15-7-412 Ch. 50
15-7-401—15-7-490 Ch. 51
15-7-430—15-7-442 Ch. 52
15-7-460—15-7-465 Ch. 51
15-7-480—15-7-490 Ch. 51
16-1-102—16-1-109 Ch. 50
16-4-403            30.20
16-4-404            30.24
16-4-405            30.22
16-4-406            30.21
16-4-201—16-4-205 153.22
18-3-402(a)(xvi)(P) 150.02
22.1-223            33.06
22.1-327            33.08
22.1-328            33.07
22.1-331            33.10
22.1-332            33.11
22.1-333            33.12
22.1-334            33.13
22.320              33.01
22.322              33.01
22.324—22.326     33.01
24-1-110            70.01
Title 31            70.01
33-6-104            Ch. 113
35-7-1001—35-7-105130.15
41-14-102           Ch. 51
41-14-103           Ch. 51
41-14-401           Ch. 51
                    
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-5                10.05
1-8                10.99
1-9                11.02
2-1                30.20
2-2                30.21
2-3                30.22
2-4                30.23
2-5                30.24
2-6                30.25
2-7                30.01 -
                   30.05
2-8                32.01 -
                   32.15
3-1                112.01
3-2                112.02
3-3                112.03
3-4                112.04
3-5                112.05
3-6                112.06
3-7                112.07
3-8                112.08
3-9                112.09
3-11               112.10
3-12               112.11
3-13               112.12
3-14               112.13
3-15               112.99
3-16               112.15
3-17               112.14
3-18               112.14
3-19               112.99
3-20               112.14
5-1                33.01 -
                   33.14
5-2                34.02
6-1                34.01
6-2                34.01
6.04.010           91.01
6.04.020           91.45
6.04.030           91.20
6.04.040           91.21
6.04.050           91.22
6.04.060           91.46
6.04.070           91.23
6.04.080           91.47
6.04.090           91.47
6.04.100           91.33
6.04.110           91.22
6.04.120           91.24
6.04.130           91.48
6.04.140           91.26
6.04.150           91.49
6.04.160           91.32
6.04.170           91.30
6.04.180           91.30
6.04.190           91.50
6.04.200           91.50
6.04.210           91.25
6.04.220           91.27
6.04.230           91.09;
                   91.99
6.04.240           91.09
6.04.250           91.09
6.04.260           91.31
6.04.270           91.31
6.04.280           91.30
6.04.290           91.28
6.04.300           91.28
6.04.310           91.51
6.04.320           91.52
6.04.330           91.29;
                   91.99
6.04.340           91.05
6.04.350           91.03
6.04.360           91.04
6.04.370           91.08
6.04.380           91.08
6.04.390           91.08
6.04.400           91.02
6.04.410           91.53;
                   91.99
6.04.420           91.54;
                   91.99
6.04.430           91.23
6.04.440           91.99
6.04.450           91.06
6.04.460           91.06
6.04.470           91.07
7-1                110.15
7-2                110.16
7-3                110.17
7-4                110.17
7-5                110.18
7-6                110.18
7-7                113.01
7-8                113.01
7-9                113.01
7-10               113.02
7-11               110.02
9-1                31.01
9-2                31.02
9-4                31.03
9-5                31.04
9-6                31.05
10-1               130.01
10-2               130.02
10-3               130.03
10-4               130.04
10-5               130.05
10-6               130.06
10-7               130.06
10-8               130.60
10-9               130.07
10-10              130.08
10-11              130.09
10-12              130.10
10-13              130.11
10-15              130.40
10-16              130.40
10-17              130.40
10-18              130.12
10-19              130.13
10-21              130.14
10-22              130.15
10-23              130.16;
                   130.99
10-24              130.17
10-25              130.18
10-26              130.40
10-27              130.40
10-28              130.41
10-29              130.19
10-30              130.42
10-31              130.43
10-32              130.20
10-33              130.21
10-34              130.22
10-35              130.23
10-36              130.24
10-37              130.25
10-38              130.44
10-39              130.61
10-40              130.26
10-41              130.45;
                   130.99
11-1               150.20
11-2               150.21
11-3               150.22
11-4               150.23
11-5               150.24
11-6               150.25
11-7               150.26
11-8               150.27
11-9               150.28
11-10              150.29
12-1               50.03
12-2               50.04
12-3               50.05
12-4               50.06
12-5               50.20
12-6               50.21
12-7               50.22
12-8               50.23
12-9               50.24
12-10              50.24
12-11              50.24
12-12              50.24
12-14              53.02
12-15              53.02
12-16              53.03
12-17              53.04
12-18              53.05
12-19              53.06
12-20              53.07
12-21              53.08
12-22              50.02
12-23              50.02
12-24              51.03
12-25              51.03
12-26              51.04
12-27              51.05
12-28              51.06
12-30              51.01
12-31              51.08
12-32              52.17
12-33              52.18
12-35              52.26
12-36              52.26
12-37              52.27
12-38              52.27
12-39              52.27
12-40              52.16
13-1               90.15
13-2               90.16;
                   90.17
13-3               90.17
13-4               90.18
13-5               90.19
13-6               54.02
13-7               90.20
13-8               90.21
13-9               54.01
13-10              54.02
14-1               151.01
14-2               151.02
14-3               151.02
14-4               151.02
14-5               151.03
14-6               151.04
14-7               150.40
14-8               150.40
14-9               150.40
15-1               111.01
15-2               111.02
15-3               111.03
15-4               111.03
15-5               111.04
15-6               111.05
15-7               111.06
15-8               111.07
15-9               111.08
15-10              111.09
15-11              111.10
15-12              111.11
Ch. 161-2          153.01
                   153.02;
Ch. 162-1          153.03;
                   153.20 -
                   153.27
Ch. 162.2          153.28
Ch. 162.3          153.40
Ch. 162.4          153.41
Ch. 162.5          153.42
Ch. 162.6          153.43
Ch. 162.7          153.44;
                   153.45
Ch. 162.8          153.46
Ch. 162.9          153.05
Ch. 162.10         153.06
Ch. 162.11         153.07
Ch. 162.12         153.08
Ch. 162.13         153.09
Ch. 162.14         153.29
Ch. 162.15         153.04
Ch. 162.16         153.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         33.01 -
                     33.14
                     112.01;
224      - -         112.10 -
                     112.12
230      - -         130.27;
                     130.99
254      - -         150.01;
                     150.99
1        5-19-1925   11.01
5        5-19-1925   11.02
8        5-19-1925   110.01;
                     110.99
22       4-7-1930    113.04;
                     113.99
28       5-1-1933    113.05;
                     113.99
41       7-29-1938   113.05
48       6-4-1944    113.05
10       5-13-1960   10.15
15       1-1-1970    10.15
105      12-7-1977   34.02
20       1-1-1980    10.15
111      10-15-1980  150.21 -
                     150.26
25       1-1-1985    10.15
119      1-21-1985   130.16;
                     130.99
120      3-22-1985   113.03;
                     113.99
127      8-4-1987    110.99;
                     113.99
128      9-8-1987    130.16;
                     130.99
                     54.15 -
129      9-8-1987    54.22;
                     54.99
136      7-12-1988   30.01 -
                     30.05
137      7-12-1988   90.01;
                     90.99
139      9-6-1988    30.20 -
                     30.33
158      - -1993     52.02
                     52.15 -
                     52.17;
160      10-5-1993   52.19 -
                     52.25;
                     52.27 -
                     52.35
167      10-1-1994   113.02
161      5-7-1996    90.21
171      5-7-1996    55.01
173      6-4-1996    30.03;
                     30.05
177      1-7-1997    130.61
179      10-7-1997   130.26
184      4-4-2000    53.06
186      8-1-2000    50.24
189      12-4-2001   130.60
170      - -2002     112.07
197      10-7-2003   51.06
200      3-6-2004    33.05
203      10-4-2005   150.06
214      4-1-2008    33.02
        7-6-2010    150.28;
                     150.99
228      8-3-2010    31.05
9        9-7-2010    31.01;
                     31.02
229      10-5-2010   70.01
-        8-2-2011    90.17
-        5-1-2012    150.05
239      5-1-2012    70.99
240      5-1-2012    70.99
248      2-13-2013   30.26
-        9-11-2013   130.45;
                     130.99
225      6-11-2014   90.20
255      6-11-2014   112.14;
                     112.99
257      9-10-2014   150.03;
                     150.99
-        1-14-2015   150.20
259      5-13-2015   154.01 -
                     154.03
260      6-10-2015   150.55 -
                     150.58
261      6-10-2015   50.01
269      7-13-2016   30.04
270      7-13-2016   30.04
272      7-13-2016   150.04
275      8-10-2016   112.10
276      1-11-2017   150.29
-        6-14-2017   51.08
284      3-14-2018   150.27
299      5-8-2019    150.02
302      1-8-2020    150.57
314      7-14-2021   70.03
315      9-8-2021    70.02;
                     70.99
-        8-14-2022   150.20
                     152.01 -
                     150.16;
                     152.30 -
316      12-14-2022  152.33;
                     152.45 -
                     152.49;
                     152.99
305      5-10-2023   53.01
244A     8-9-2023    50.22
320      2-28-2024   33.04;
                     33.09
321      3-13-2024   54.02
320      6-26-2024   33.02
330      8-14-2024   30.23
276      11-27-2024  150.03
331      5-14-2025   51.01
332      5-14-2025   51.03
335      9-8-2025    52.01
336      9-8-2025    51.02
337      3-11-2026   30.04
                    
 
