SHERIDAN, MONTANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code; citation
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE; CITATION.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the “Municipal
Code of the Town of Sheridan, Madison County, Montana”, for which designation
“code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted. Code
title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part of the law as
contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted, amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; and the use of a verb in
the present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
      CODE. Unless otherwise specifically stated, shall mean this code.
      COUNTY. Madison County, Montana.
      EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words of the
town.
      FEE. A sum of money charged by the town for the carrying on of a
business, profession, or occupation.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the
act or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
      LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession, or occupation.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive. See SHALL.
      M.C.A. Abbreviation for Montana Code Annotated.
      MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this
code which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL. The Town of Sheridan.
      NEGLECT, NEGLIGENT, NEGLIGENCE, or NEGLIGENTLY. A want of such attention
to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a prudent
person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
      NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of
the inhabitants of the town; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of, another person or
to the community.
      OATH. Includes affirmation.
      OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
      OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission
of any act required by the provisions of this code.
      OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a town officer by
title only, shall be construed as though followed by the words of the town.
      OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business, or
profession.
      OWNER. As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, or joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
      PERSON. Includes the singular and the plural and shall also mean and
include any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership, or any other
form of association or organization.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action, and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right, or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged, or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur unless some other section is designated.
      PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE. Shall include streets, alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, public ways, public squares, public places, and sidewalks.
      RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. See MAY.
      STATE. The State of Montana.
      STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, and sidewalks.
      TENANT. As applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
      TOWN. The Town of Sheridan, Montana.
      TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of Sheridan, Montana.
      WHOLESALER or WHOLESALE DEALER. As used in this code unless otherwise
specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles, or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
      WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or
omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the
omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to
injure another, or to acquire an advantage.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended, or
its application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
   (C)   If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (D)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (E)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
         (M.C.A. § 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This town shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see M.C.A. § 11-1102
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the previous code section
number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §      )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; and punishments, penalties,
or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been
enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in any provision of this town code or other ordinance of the
town, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, a
misdemeanor, or an offense, or whenever in any such provision or ordinance the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise provided therefor, any person,
upon conviction for the violation of any such provision of this town code or
ordinances, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment
not to exceed six months, or both such fine and imprisonment for each such
offense. Each day any violation of any provision of this town code or any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In the construction and interpretation of this section, the revocation
of a license or permit shall not be considered as a recovery or penalty so as
to bar any other penalty being enforced.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Plan of town government
Town Officers
   
30.15   Clerk-Treasurer
Organizations
   
30.30   Tree Board
   
30.31   Zoning Commission; Planning Board
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 30.01 PLAN OF TOWN GOVERNMENT.
   The municipal government of the town shall be organized under the provisions
of M.C.A. § 7-3-113, which authorizes the municipal council-mayor form of
government.
(Prior Code, Certificate of the Plan of Town Government)
**** TOWN OFFICERS ****
§ 30.15 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The offices of Town Clerk and Town Treasurer are hereby consolidated
into the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2.01.01)
   (B)   The office of the Clerk-Treasurer is a department head position which
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority of the Council
pursuant to the provisions of M.C.A. § 7-3-113(1)(e) and, by reference, M.C.A.
§ 7-3-213(3).
(Prior Code, § 2.01.02)
(Ord. 120, passed 8-27-2007)
**** ORGANIZATIONS ****
§ 30.30 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   The Town Council, in recognizing the importance of trees to quality of
life, has created a tree ordinance. In the creation of this ordinance, the Town
Council has also created a Tree Board and selected three members to serve on
this Board.
      (1)   Eligibility. A Board member shall be a property owner of the town
and shall be genuinely interested in the development and improvement of the
town’s tree program.
      (2)   Appointment. The Board shall consist of three members appointed by
the Town Council.
      (3)   Term. Each member shall serve a three-year term following the
initial term of one, two, and three years, respectively.
      (4)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall receive no compensation.
   (B)   The Tree Board, hereinafter called “the Board”, will concern itself
primarily with the following:
      (1)   Planting, maintaining, and removing. Planting, maintaining, and
removing trees and other vegetation on public and municipal property within the
town limits;
      (2)   Distance from curb, sidewalks, street corners, and fire hydrants.
The distance trees may be planted from curbs and curblines and sidewalks will
be two feet for bushes/shrubs and three feet for trees. No trees or large
shrubs shall be planted within 35 feet of any street corner measured from the
point of the nearest intersecting curbs and curblines. No trees or large shrubs
shall be planted within ten feet of any fire hydrant;
      (3)   Educational materials. Providing educational materials to anyone
requesting assistance in choosing tree species for planting in the area,
methods of trimming, and general care;
      (4)   Planting assistance. Requesting planting assistance from state and
federal agencies as well as independent professionals in the field of urban
forestry;
      (5)   Appreciation of trees. Promoting appreciation of trees through
annual Arbor Day observances as well as other activities; and
      (6)   Maintenance plans. Recommending and approving plans for the
maintenance of trees on town property.
   (C)   The Town Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and
decisions of the Town Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the Town Tree Board to the Town Council, who may hear the matter and
make decisions.
   (D)   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in this section. Those offenses
shall not require proof of the mental status described in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Ord. 123, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 30.31 ZONING COMMISSION; PLANNING BOARD.
   The town has established the Zoning Commission per M.C.A. § 76-1-221. A Town
Planning Board shall consist of not less than seven members to be appointed as
follows:
   (A)   One member to be appointed by the Town Council from its membership;
   (B)   One member to be appointed by the Town Council who may, in the
discretion of the Town Council, be an employee or hold public office in the
town or county in which the town is located;
   (C)   One member to be appointed by the Mayor upon the designation by the
County Commissioners in which the town is located; and
   (D)   Four citizen members to be appointed by the Mayor: two of whom shall
be resident freeholders within the urban area, if any, outside of the town
limits over which the Planning Board has jurisdiction under this section; and
two of whom shall be resident freeholders within the town limits.
(Res. 2024-5, passed 9-9-2024)
CHAPTER 31: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
31.01   Capital improvement fund
§ 31.01 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a capital improvement fund, which may
receive money from any source, including from other town funds that have been
allocated in any budget year but not expended or encumbered by the end of the
fiscal year. Money in the capital improvement fund must be invested pursuant to
law, and all interest and income from the investment must be deposited in the
capital improvement fund.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.01)
   (B)   There is also established a capital improvement program (CIP) for the
town, which shall designate and list in priority order, along with the
estimated cost, those capital facilities and items of capital equipment
proposed for replacement or refurbishing by means of the capital improvement
fund for approval by the Town Council during the annual budget process.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.02)
(Ord. 119, passed 8-27-2007)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Title/designation of municipal systems
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Public Works Department; Director
   
50.04   Clerk-Treasurer duties
   
50.05   Water and Sewer Enterprise Funds
Rules and Regulations
   
50.20   Jurisdiction
   
50.21   Terms of service
   
50.22   Owner responsibility
   
50.23   Installing or changing service line
   
50.24   Irrigation; sprinkling
   
50.25   System maintenance
   
50.26   Excavations; repair
   
50.27   Authority to turn on service
   
50.28   Service line materials
   
50.29   Water wells prohibited
   
50.30   Pressure spikes
   
50.31   Leaks; high meter readings
   
50.32   Requirements for new construction
   
50.33   Nonconforming properties
   
50.34   Appeal; considerations
Rates and Fees; Billing
   
50.45   Responsibility for charges
   
50.46   Water rates; fees
   
50.47   Sewer rates; fees
   
50.48   Delinquent accounts; shut off
   
50.49   Discontinuing service
 
   
50.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 50.01 TITLE/DESIGNATION OF MUNICIPAL SYSTEMS.
   The town has a Public Works Department that provides for the maintenance and
operation of the municipal water and sewer systems.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE RATE. The minimum rate charged to each user per EDU for water and sewer
service.
   CONNECTION. The procedure in which a service line is connected to the main
water and sewer lines.
   DELINQUENT TURN-OFF/TURN-ON FEE. A fee based on three times the base rate.
   DISINFECT. To clean, especially with a chemical, in order to destroy
bacteria.
   EDU. Equivalent dwelling unit, and it is established by water-service line
size as follows:
Service Line Size (inches) EDU Multiplier
Service Line Size (inches) EDU Multiplier
3/4                        1
1                          1.79
1-1/4                      2.78
1-1/2                      4
2                          7.14
3                          16
4                          28.57
 
   INFRASTRUCTURE BUY-IN FEE. The initial cost due to the town from the user
for providing water and sewer utilities to the user’s property that reflects a
portion of the current audited value (0.1%) of the entire water and sewer
systems.
   MAIN SEWER LINE. The primary sewer line to which the service lines are
connected.
   MAIN WATER LINE. The primary water line to which the service lines are
connected.
   MULTI-USER. Properties where water is supplied through one service line to
multiple units, buildings, dwellings, or structures.
   NONCONFORMING. Properties with a water and/or sewer system connection which
supplies more than one unit, house, building, dwelling, or structure from a
single water and/or sewer service line (e.g., a multi-user) and/or a unit,
house, building, dwelling, or structure that currently has a domestic water
well and/or septic system.
   SERVICE LINE. The water line which carries water from the main line to the
user’s premises, or the sewer line which carries sewage from the user’s
premises to the main.
   SHUTOFF. The valve placed at the property line or curbline will be closed,
which effectively shuts off the water service going to a user’s premises.
   SPRINKLING. The watering of any outside garden or lawn by means of
sprinklers or other devices.
   USER. Any property owner supplied by the town’s water and/or sewer system.
   WATER METER PIT. The vessel located at the property line containing the
water meter that also defines the boundary of responsibilities for water
service between the town and the user.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.03 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT; DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The water and sewer system for the town is designated as the Sheridan
Municipal Water and Sewer Systems.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint, with consent of the Town Council, a person
who shall be designated the Public Works Director, whose duties it shall be to
have charge of the operation and maintenance of the said systems under the
direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.04 CLERK-TREASURER DUTIES.
   (A)   It is the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer, under the direction of the
Mayor, to collect all water and sewer fees when due and payable and to keep
correct and true the book of accounts showing a true and complete status of
each individual user’s account.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to have charge of the
clerical work of the Public Works Department. The Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare
and forward bills of water and sewer fees due to all users, along with other
notices that may from time-to-time be required in the interest of the water and
sewer systems.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.05 WATER AND SEWER ENTERPRISE FUNDS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit and keep such fees so received in
funds to be known as the Water Enterprise Fund and Sewer Enterprise Fund, and
such funds shall be kept entirely separate and apart from all other funds of
the town, and no money shall be paid out of the same except upon warrants or
checks duly and regularly approved by the Mayor and Town Council.
   (B)   There shall be an accounting entity kept by the Clerk-Treasurer and
designated as the Water Enterprise Fund, and all receipts arising from the
collection of water fees or any appropriations made by the Town Council for the
purpose of maintenance, construction, or extension of the water works, shall be
recorded in this fund.
   (C)   There shall be an accounting entity kept by the Clerk-Treasurer and
designated as the Sewer Enterprise Fund, and all receipts arising from the
collection of sewer fees; or the sale of such property or material connected
with the management or operation of the sewer works; or any appropriations made
by the Town Council for the purpose of maintenance, construction, or extension
of the sewer, shall be recorded in this fund.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
**** RULES AND REGULATIONS ****
§ 50.20 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The town has jurisdiction over the town water and sewer systems
including the intake, pipeline, reservoir, conduits, rights-of-way, and
appurtenances.
   (B)   The rules and regulations governing the use and operation of the town
water and sewer systems are as follows in this chapter.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 TERMS OF SERVICE.
   The rules, regulations, and water and sewer rates of this chapter shall be
considered a part of the contract with each user supplied water and sewer
service. The town and such users of the service shall be considered to express
their consent to be bound by these rules and regulations. When in violation,
the service shall be shut off to the user and shall not again be turned on
except by the order of the Mayor and/or upon payment of the sum of past due
amounts and, potentially, the delinquent turn-off/turn-on fee.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.22 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   All persons connected to the town’s water and/or sewer system shall
keep their own service lines and household plumbing in good repair and
protected from frost at their own risk and expense, and it is stipulated by the
town that no claims or demands shall be made by any user against the town by
reason of broken or plugged service lines on the user’s property.
   (B)   All persons taking water shall keep their service lines and apparatus
in good repair and protected from frost at their own expense and risk, and it
is stipulated by the town that no claims or demands shall be made by the user
against it by reason of the breaking of any service line or service cock, or if
the supply of water shall fail, or from any damage arising from the shutting
off of water.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 INSTALLING OR CHANGING SERVICE LINE.
   (A)   The process for installing a new service line or to upgrade or change
the existing service line size is established by the following methods.
      (1)   Only town personnel or an authorized agent can excavate to the
water main and perform the connection to the water main.
      (2)   All service line repairs or replacements must be disinfected prior
to connection to the town water supply.
      (3)   If frost is present, then additional costs for excavating the frost
will be charged for the new service or upgraded service. The town reserves the
right to delay excavation until frost is no longer present.
      (4)   A fee shall be charged to the user for sampling water from an
individual service line at the request of the user. If it is found that
sampling results show contamination, and if that contamination is found within
the town’s water mains, the town will incur the costs of analysis. If the
contamination is in the owner’s service line, then the owner will take the
necessary steps to rectify the situation.
      (5)   The town will tap the water main and furnish the necessary material
and labor for tapping the water main. All expense of laying and maintaining the
service line from the water meter pit to the user’s premises must be borne by
the consumer. All expenses of laying and maintaining the sewer service line,
including tapping the main, will be borne by the user.
      (6)   The service line must be laid below street grade and on the user’s
premises at a standard depth designated by the town to prevent freezing.
      (7)   New connections to the water and sewer system will be required to
pay an infrastructure buy-in fee.
   (B)   Every person desiring a connection to the water and/or sewer main must
make application to the Public Works Director upon a town permit form furnished
by the Public Works Department for that purpose.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.24 IRRIGATION; SPRINKLING.
   (A)   No person shall use any water for irrigation or sprinkling during the
progress of any fire in the town, and all irrigation or sprinkling shall be
immediately stopped when the fire alarm is sounded and shall not be activated
again until the fire has been extinguished.
   (B)   Sprinkling hours by users of the town’s water supply shall be set by
the town and subject to change as the Town Council deems necessary.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 SYSTEM MAINTENANCE.
   The town reserves the right at any time, without notice, to shut off the
water in the mains for the purpose of making repairs or extensions or for any
other purpose. The Public Works Department shall have access at all reasonable
times to all parts or any buildings or premises for the purpose of inspecting
the size and condition of the pipes and fixtures, and the manner in which the
water is used, and the inspection of cross-connections and sump pump discharge.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.26 EXCAVATIONS; REPAIR.
   (A)   A town permit (§
150.01) shall be obtained prior to making any excavation in the public right-
of-way for purposes of installing or repairing any water or sewer service
lines. After service lines have been laid, the backfill must be laid in layers
of not more than nine inches in depth and each layer compacted to prevent
further settlement.
   (B)   No opening of the streets for the tapping of mains will be permitted
when the ground is frozen without written permission of the Public Works
Director and/or the Town Council.
   (C)   All excavation done in the town’s rights-of-way must be completed by a
licensed and bonded contractor approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 AUTHORITY TO TURN ON SERVICE.
   The water shall not be turned on to any house or service line except by
written permit (§
150.01) of the Public Works Director, and then not until the applicant has
fully complied with every requirement contained in the permit and in this
chapter. Plumbers are strictly forbidden from turning water into any service
line except by order or permission in writing from the Public Works Director,
but this rule shall not be construed to prohibit plumbers from turning water
into pipes for the purpose of testing them, and for that purpose only.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.28 SERVICE LINE MATERIALS.
   Any material installed in service lines on town property shall be of the
style, type, and kind approved by the Public Works Director, and must be
installed under the direction of the Public Works Director, and approved by him
or her.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 WATER WELLS PROHIBITED.
   No water well shall be drilled or developed within the town limits. In no
case shall any existing well be connected directly or indirectly in any manner
whatsoever to the town’s water system.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.30 PRESSURE SPIKES.
   (A)   The town’s water system is known to have significant pressure spikes
at times. It is recommended to the property owners to take such precautions to
prevent damage from high water- pressure issues.
   (B)   The installation of a pressure reduction device is recommended.
   (C)   The town is not responsible for damages.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.31 LEAKS; HIGH METER READINGS.
   Property owners with wintertime water or sewer leaks and/or unusually high
meter readings will be required to appear before the Town Council to discuss
possible needed repairs, which are to be performed in a time frame determined
by the Town Council.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.32 REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   The following requirements apply to the new construction of residential
units, houses, buildings, dwellings, or structures:
Building Type with Service No. of Meters Service Line Size No. of Base Rates
Building Type with Service No. of Meters Service Line Size No. of Base Rates
Single-family home with    1             3/4 in.           1
attached garage
Single-family home with    1             3/4 in.           2
detached garage
Duplex                     1             1 in.             2*
Triplex                    1             1-1/4 in.         3*
Fourplex                   1             1-1/2 in.         4*
Townhouses (2)             2             3/4 in.           2
Townhouses (3)             3             3/4 in.           3
Notes to Table:
*The base rates for water and sewer are calculated by multiplying the
applicable EDU times the standard base rate and dividing by the number of
units (e.g., 2, 3, or 4).
 
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.33 NONCONFORMING PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Nonconforming properties that transfer ownership must connect to the
town’s water and/or sewer system at their own expense at the time of the
transfer.
   (B)   Each existing property that is nonconforming due to a multi-user
configuration shall pay a separate base rate for both water and sewer based on
the corresponding number of units, buildings, dwellings, or structures using
the single water- or sewer-main tap. This requirement is applicable if the
location of the secondary water and/or sewer uses are in residential units,
houses, buildings, dwellings, or structures used as a permanent or
semipermanent residence and/or from which an income is generated by the
property owner.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.34 APPEAL; CONSIDERATIONS.
   Any situations that arise outside of the parameters of this chapter must be
presented to the Town Council in person for consideration of action.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
**** RATES AND FEES; BILLING ****
§ 50.45 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CHARGES.
   (A)   Owners of property served by the town water and sewer system shall be
held liable for all water and sewer service charges.
   (B)   All bills will be in the property owner’s name. Payments will be
accepted from the tenants, but that will not relieve the owner from liability
if the tenant becomes delinquent.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.46 WATER RATES; FEES.
   (A)   Water users are charged a base rate plus gallons used as the basis for
their water service. The water fees for each user shall be the base rate times
the applicable EDU plus a minimum rate per each 1,000 gallons consumed per
month. The base rate is the minimum charge, and this charge will continue even
though service is turned off.
   (B)   Each user of a multi-user service line will be charged the water and
sewer base rate. The property owner will determine the distribution of the
water usage charges. If one of the multi-users discontinues service, then the
charges will remain unchanged.
   (C)   A fee of $20 per trip by Public Works Department employees may be
charged to turn off or turn on water service for user convenience.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.47 SEWER RATES; FEES.
   Sewer fees are based on a base rate times the applicable EDU plus a minimum
usage rate based on the average monthly water use from the previous six-month
period of October through March. The usage rate is recalculated at the end of
each fiscal year (June 30) and applied at the start of each fiscal year (July
1). If the water service is unmetered, sewer fees will be based on the base
rate plus an assumed usage of 4,000 gallons of water per month. If there is no
water usage in the six-month period of October through March, a minimum usage
fee of $2 will be charged each month.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.48 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; SHUT OFF.
   (A)   All users whose accounts are three billing cycles past due will be
served with a shut-off notice. Payment in full must be received by the due date
of the notice. If payment is not received by the due date of the shut-off
notice, the service will be suspended by order of the Town Council. A lien may
be levied against the property if not paid in full.
   (B)   The town reserves the right to charge a late fee of $5 per billing
cycle.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to levy a delinquent turn-off/turn-on fee
for turning on water that was previously turned off for nonpayment.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.49 DISCONTINUING SERVICE.
   Should a user desire to discontinue the use of the water and sewer system
permanently, the town is to be notified by him or her in writing at the time
the service is no longer needed. The base rates will be discontinued upon the
next billing cycle at such time when the Public Works Director terminates the
service. Reconnecting to the town system will be considered a new service
subject to the current infrastructure buy-in fees.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found guilty of trespassing thereon the town’s water and
sewer systems with the intent to deface or defraud, or any tampering or
interfering with any of the appliances, fixtures, valves or property, or any
person found guilty of interfering with the water supply shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined a sum not exceeding $500 or punishment by imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days, or both fine and imprisonment, and shall be liable for
damages in an amount equal to the loss occasioned by the town together with the
costs in any legal action, including attorney’s fees, in addition to the fine
and imprisonment.
   (B)   Any person tapping the mains, or opening and closing any valves, or
opening or closing any fire hydrant, or opening any sewer manhole without the
authority from the town to do so shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (C)   Nonadherence to the policy in §
50.27 shall be considered a violation subject to a fine of $100 and/or
disqualification to do work in the town.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-12-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption of State Uniform Motor Vehicle Code
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE UNIFORM MOTOR VEHICLE CODE.
   (A)   The State Uniform Vehicle Code set forth in law at M.C.A. Title 61,
Chapter 8, Traffic Regulations, is hereby adopted by reference as the traffic
regulations applying to the operation of any motor vehicle upon the streets and
alleys of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.01)
   (B)   A copy of M.C.A. Title 61, Chapter 8, is maintained in the Town Hall
for public inspection and examination.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.02)
   (C)   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
70.99. Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described in
M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.04)
(Ord. 115, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this traffic code is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more
than $500.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.03) (Ord. 115, passed 8-27-2007)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Parallel parking required
   
71.03   Prohibited parking
   
71.04   Absolute liability
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for any purpose
other than when actually engaged temporarily in the loading or unloading of the
vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, street, alley, or roadway, except
devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or
tracks.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.01) (Ord. 116, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 71.02 PARALLEL PARKING REQUIRED.
   Vehicles shall, on all streets within the town, be parked parallel with the
edge of said street and within two feet of the edge of said street, except as
otherwise herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.02) (Ord. 116, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   No motor vehicle shall be parked or double parked:
   (A)   Upon a marked crosswalk designated by white painted stripes;
   (B)   Within 20 feet of an intersection between two streets;
   (C)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
   (D)   Within or upon a sidewalk;
   (E)   In such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less
than ten feet of the street or alley for the free movement of vehicular
traffic;
   (F)   In front of the Town Fire Station;
   (G)   Any place where official signs prohibit parking; and/or
   (H)   For a period longer than 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.04) (Ord. 116, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 ABSOLUTE LIABILITY.
   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
71.99. Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described in
M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.06) (Ord. 116, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §§
71.02 and
71.03 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $10 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.05) (Ord. 116, passed 8-27-2007)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
   Schedule
      
I.   Main Street parking
SCHEDULE I. MAIN STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Vehicles parking on Main Street, Highway 287, shall be diagonally
parked at an acute angle of not less than 30 degrees nor greater than 60
degrees with the edge of the street.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.03)
   (B)   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in division (C) below. Those
offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described in M.C.A. § 45-
2-101.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.06)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) above is guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more
than $100.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.05)
(Ord. 116, passed 8-27-2007)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Abandoned refrigerators
Snow Removal
   
90.15   Property owner responsibility
   
90.16   Sidewalks abutting businesses
   
90.17   Removal from all other sidewalks
   
90.18   Alternate methods; sand
   
90.19   Abatement
   
90.20   Absolute liability
Littering; Waste Disposal
   
90.35   Littering on public property or waters
   
90.36   Disposal of certain materials and substances
   
90.37   Absolute liability
Abandoned/Junk Vehicles
   
90.50   Unenclosed parking
   
90.51   Multiple vehicles on property
   
90.52   Notice to remove
   
90.53   Public notice
   
90.54   Abatement; recovery of costs
   
90.55   Contracting removal/wrecking services
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.01 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to leave, abandon, discard, or permit to
remain outside any building or within any unoccupied or abandoned building,
structure, or dwelling, in a place accessible to children, any abandoned,
unattended, or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other container which has a
door or lid and snaplock, or other locking device, which may not be released
from inside the container, without first removing such door, lid, or snaplock
or other locking device.
(Prior Code, § 4.05.01)
   (B)   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
90.99(B). Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described
in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 4.05.03)
(Ord. 104, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
**** SNOW REMOVAL ****
§ 90.15 PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   Every owner, occupant, tenant, lessee, or any other person in control of any
building, residence, or lot of land within the town front on or abutting a
paved sidewalk shall remove and clear away, or cause to be removed and cleared
away, snow and ice from so much of said sidewalk as abuts the front, sides, or
rear of said building, residence, or lot of land.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.01) (Ord. 107, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 90.16 SIDEWALKS ABUTTING BUSINESSES.
   Snow and ice shall be removed from sidewalks abutting any business within
four business hours of the cessation of snow, sleet, or freezing rain, or by 9:
00 a.m. of the next business day or by 12:00 p.m. (noon) of the next
nonbusiness day, whichever period is earlier.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.02) (Ord. 107, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 90.17 REMOVAL FROM ALL OTHER SIDEWALKS.
   Snow and ice shall be removed from all other sidewalks in the town within 24
hours after the cessation of snowfall, sleet, or freezing rain.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.03) (Ord. 107, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 90.18 ALTERNATE METHODS; SAND.
   (A)   In the event that the snow and ice on a sidewalk has become so hard
that it cannot reasonably be removed, the person herein charged with its
removal shall cause sand or other suitable substance to be put on the sidewalk
to make travel thereon reasonably safe.
   (B)   Said person shall comply within the times set forth in §
90.16 hereof and shall then, as soon thereafter as weather permits, cause said
sidewalk to be thoroughly cleared of snow and ice.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.04) (Ord. 107, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 90.19 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   In the event that the property owner fails to remove or cause to be
removed snow and ice from abutting sidewalks or to apply sand or other suitable
substance and subsequently clear away snow and ice within the time limits
provided in §
90.16, the Mayor of the town may order the abatement of the hazard by removal
of snow and ice by employees of the town or by contract for private services.
   (B)   The cost of such removal and abatement of hazard shall be payable to
the town by the property owner or owners and, if unpaid after 60 days from the
date of billing, the cost shall be included with interest on the property tax
bill of the owner or owners, pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.05) (Ord. 107, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 90.20 ABSOLUTE LIABILITY.
   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
90.99(C). Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described
in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.07) (Ord. 107, passed 8-27-2007)
**** LITTERING; WASTE DISPOSAL ****
§ 90.35 LITTERING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY OR WATERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to litter by dumping, throwing, placing,
depositing, or leaving or causing to be dumped, thrown, deposited, or left any
refuse of any kind or any object or substance which tends to pollute, mar, or
deface into, upon, or about any:
   (A)   Public street, highway, alley, right-of-way, park, or other public
place or any stream, watercourse, or other body of water, except by direction
of an official of the town authorized to direct such acts; or
   (B)   Any private property without the consent of the owner or occupant of
such property.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.01) (Ord. 105, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 DISPOSAL OF CERTAIN MATERIALS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to dump or deposit solid waste matter or
hazardous materials of any kind upon any public property, or upon the premises
or property of another, without the express permission and consent of the owner
or occupant of such property or premises.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.02)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to dump or deposit any manure, offal,
garbage, or other noxious substance on any street, alley, or public or private
place; or to deposit or place any combustible materials, including hay or
straw, in or on any street, alley, or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.03)
(Ord. 105, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 ABSOLUTE LIABILITY.
   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
90.99(D). Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described
in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.05) (Ord. 105, passed 8-27-2007)
**** ABANDONED/JUNK VEHICLES ****
§ 90.50 UNENCLOSED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park, store, or leave, or permit the parking or
storing of, any licensed or unlicensed motor vehicle, trailer, or any kind of
part(s) thereof, for a period of time in excess of 72 hours, which is wrecked,
junked, partially dismantled or inoperative, or abandoned condition, whether
attended or not, upon any private property within the town limits unless the
same is completely enclosed within a building or unless it is in connection
with an established farming or ranching operation or business enterprise
lawfully situated and licensed for same.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.01) (Ord. 106, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.51 MULTIPLE VEHICLES ON PROPERTY.
   The accumulation and storage of two or more of such vehicles or part(s)
thereof, as hereinbefore defined in §
90.50, on private property shall constitute a nuisance detrimental to the
health, safety, and welfare of inhabitants of the town, and it shall be the
duty of the registered owner of such vehicle or part(s) thereof, and it shall
also be the duty of the owner of the private property, or lessee or other
person in possession of private property upon which such vehicle or part(s)
thereof is located, to remove the same from the town limits or to have the same
housed in a building where it will not be visible from the street.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.02) (Ord. 106, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.52 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor of the town to give written notice
to the registered owner of any motor vehicle or part(s) thereof which is in
violation of this subchapter as described in §§ 91.50 and 91.51, or to give
such notice to the owner or lessee of private land upon which said motor
vehicle or part(s) thereof is situated, giving notice that said vehicle or part
(s) thereof violates this subchapter, and demanding that said motor vehicle or
part(s) thereof be removed from the town limits within 72 hours from the time
of service of notice or that within 72 hours the same may be housed in a
building where it will not be visible from the street. Said notice may be given
by personal service or by certified mail with a return receipt requested.
   (B)   Written notice required by division (A) above shall be deemed to have
been given (i.e., constructive notice) when the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or part(s) thereof, or the owner, lessee, or other person in possession
of private property concerned herein either:
      (1)   Refuses to accept the prepaid United States mail certified letter
from the town, and the same is returned from the post office marked “refused”;
or
      (2)   The said person to be notified is present in the town but the
notification letter is returned “unclaimed” by the post office, in which event
notice by the town may be made by affixing the letter in a conspicuous place at
the main entrance or to the front door of the residence of such person.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.03) (Ord. 106, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 90.53 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   After diligent search and inquiry by the Mayor, no written notice as
above in §
90.52 shall be required where the registered owner of such vehicle or part(s)
thereof, or the owner of the private property or lessee, or other person in
possession of private property, upon which such vehicle or part(s) thereof is
located, cannot be found or determined, but instead a public notice shall be
posted by the Town Clerk-Treasurer on the town’s posting board for five
consecutive days.
   (B)   Such public notice shall include, among other information:
      (1)   “Public Notice: To Whom it May Concern”;
      (2)   The date;
      (3)   A legal description of the situs and address of the same;
      (4)   A full description of the motor vehicle or part(s) thereof;
      (5)   When available, the last known owner of the vehicle and/or owner of
the realty or last known person in possession of the situs; and
      (6)   The date from or approximate period of time during which said
nuisance has existed.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.04) (Ord. 106, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 90.54 ABATEMENT; RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   In the event that any of the aforesaid persons (whether an individual,
firm, or corporation) fails, neglects, or refuses to remove the abandoned,
wrecked, or junked vehicle or part(s) thereof or house the same in the building
as provided in §
90.50 and abate said nuisance after the required notice, the town, its agent,
or contractor may remove the vehicle or part(s) thereof at a cost not to exceed
$300 and a minimum of $100, as determined by the town; which cost shall, if in
the best interests of the town as determined by the Mayor, be collected from
the registered owner of such vehicle or part(s) thereof, or the owner of the
private property or lessee, or other person in possession of private property
upon which such vehicle or part(s) thereof is located.
   (B)   Ownership of any vehicles or part(s) thereof removed by the town, its
agent, or contractor shall upon such removal be vested in the town, its agent,
or contractor as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.05) (Ord. 106, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 90.55 CONTRACTING REMOVAL/WRECKING SERVICES.
   The Mayor, with the prior consent of the Town Council, is authorized to
enter into a written agreement with an auto wrecking service for the removal of
abandoned, wrecked, or junked vehicles or part(s) thereof under this section
wherein the consideration for the services of said service shall be the
vehicles or part(s) thereof at no expense to the town. In the event a qualified
and suitable wrecking service is not available to contract with or act as the
town’s agent or contractor as provided for herein, the Mayor is authorized to
contract with the lowest responsible bidder to provide for the removal from
private property of abandoned, wrecked, or junked vehicles or part(s) thereof
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.06) (Ord. 106, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 4.05.02)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
90.15 through
90.18 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall, in addition to
paying the cost of abating the hazard, be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$500.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.06)
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
90.35 and
90.36 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.04)
(Ord. 104, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 105, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 107, passed 8-27-
2007)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
91.01   Fireworks
   
91.02   Burning trash and garbage
   
91.03   Open fires
   
91.04   Weeds and noxious vegetation
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The discharge or detonation of any manner of fireworks, other than
sparklers, composed of combustible, incendiary, or explosive materials
(including but not limited to firecrackers, sky rockets, bombs, or pyrotechnic
displays) within the jurisdictional limits of the town is prohibited except on
July 4 during the period from 12:00 p.m. (noon) until 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and
as provided in division (C) below.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.01)
   (B)   The sale of any manner of fireworks composed of combustible,
incendiary, or explosive materials (including but not limited to firecrackers,
sky rockets, bombs, or pyrotechnic displays) is prohibited within the
jurisdictional limits of the town except as provided in division (B)(1) below.
      (1)   A not-for-profit organization may apply for a town permit
authorizing the organization to sell ordinary Class C “common fireworks” during
the period beginning at 8:00 a.m. on July 1 and ending at 8:00 p.m. on July 4.
      (2)   Prior to issuing a town permit to sell fireworks within town
limits, the applicant must provide proof of general liability insurance in an
amount acceptable to the town and which includes the town as an additional
insured. Additionally, the facility to be used for storing and selling
fireworks must be inspected by a town official to ensure that the facility is a
reasonably safe structure to store or sell fireworks, including an adequate on-
site fire suppression capability. A permit shall not be issued until this
inspection has been completed to the satisfaction of the inspecting official.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.02)
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor may issue a town permit to a qualified representative
of any organization or association for the supervised public display of
ordinary Class C “common fireworks” between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 12:00
a.m. (midnight) on July 4 for the purpose of recognizing and celebrating
Independence Day.
      (2)   Any person, organization, or association seeking a town permit for
the public display of fireworks shall comply with the provisions of M.C.A. §
50-37-107 and shall provide proof of general liability insurance in an amount
acceptable to the town and which includes the town as an additional insured.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.03)
   (D)   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
91.99(B). Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described
in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.05)
(Ord. 100, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 BURNING TRASH AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   The burning of trash, garbage, construction materials, refuse, or
other waste matter of any kind or description that generates noxious odors when
burned (including but not limited to asbestos, tires, Styrofoam, or animal
parts) is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.01)
   (B)   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
91.99(C). Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described
in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.03)
(Ord. 101, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 OPEN FIRES.
   (A)   Starting a bonfire, open-pit fire, grass fire, or any other type of
fire outside of an appropriate containment device such as an incinerator,
barbecue cooker, or barrel burner within the jurisdictional limits of the town
is prohibited except as provided in division (B) below.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.01)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or Fire Chief of the town may issue a town permit for
open fires larger than three feet in diameter when it is deemed safe to do so,
except when the state or county government has imposed seasonal fire
restrictions prohibiting all burning.
      (2)   Such permitted fires shall at all times be controlled directly by
the permittee who shall have immediately available the means for effective
containment of the fire or its complete suppression at any time the fire
becomes a threat to property.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.02)
   (C)   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
91.99(D). Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described
in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.04)
(Ord. 102, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 WEEDS AND NOXIOUS VEGETATION.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or owners of any private
property within the jurisdictional limits of the town to remove, from any
occupied or unoccupied land, noxious weeds or other vegetation deemed by the
Town Fire Chief to be a fire hazard. The owner or owners of the property shall
remove such vegetation to the extent necessary to eliminate the fire hazard
that otherwise may result from the uncontrolled growth of such vegetation.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.01)
   (B)   In the event that the property owner or owners fail to remove within
ten days, from the property, such vegetation to the extent necessary to abate
the fire hazard, the Mayor of the town may order the abatement of the fire
hazard by ordering the removal of the vegetation by employees of the town or by
contract for private services. The cost of such removal and abatement shall be
payable to the town by the property owner or owners and, if unpaid after 60
days from the date of billing, the cost shall be included with interest on the
property tax bill of the owner or owners, pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.02)
   (C)   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
91.99(E). Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described
in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.04)
(Ord. 103, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any individual or organization violating the provisions of §
91.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500. In the case of a violation by an
organization, the officers of the organization shall be deemed to be
responsible individually and subject to the penalty provided.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.04)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of § 90.02 is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$25 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.02)
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of § 90.03 is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $25
nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.03)
   (E)   Failure by the property owner or owners to remove from the premises
noxious weeds or other vegetation within ten days of written notice given by
the Town Fire Chief that the uncontrolled growth of such vegetation on the
property is a fire hazard, as stated in §
91.04, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, in addition to the costs of abatement of
the hazard, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.03)
(Ord. 100, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 101, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 102, passed 8-27-
2007; Ord. 103, passed 8-27-2007)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
   
92.01   Animals at large
   
92.02   Securing dogs in heat
   
92.03   Mistreatment; neglect
   
92.04   Animal waste
   
92.05   Species restrictions
   
92.06   Absolute liability
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall permit any animal to run at large at any time
within the jurisdictional limits of the town, and any person, having in his or
her possession or under his or her control any animal, who shall suffer or
permit the same to run at large in said town, shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this section.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ANIMAL. Includes dogs, cats, and livestock.
         AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner or keeper of said animal and
not under the leash control of a competent person.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.01)
   (B)   Each act of permitting any such animal to run at large shall be deemed
a separate offense, and each day or portion of a day that said act of
permission or suffering an animal to run at large shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.02)
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to livestock when passing through the
town under the direct control of a herder or herders, provided that such
herders be of sufficient number to control said animals effectively.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.03)
(Ord. 117, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 SECURING DOGS IN HEAT.
   All female dogs, while in heat, shall be kept in a secure enclosed shelter
or area in such manner so as not to come in contact with male dogs, except for
planned breeding.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.04) (Ord. 117, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 MISTREATMENT; NEGLECT.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Subject an animal to mistreatment or neglect by overworking, beating,
tormenting, or injuring any animal;
   (B)   Fail to provide an animal in his or her custody with proper drink,
food, or shelter;
   (C)   Abandon a helpless animal or abandon any animal on any public street
or highway, or in any other place where it may suffer injury, hunger, or
exposure, or become a public charge; or
   (D)   Promote, conduct, or participate in any fight between animals.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.05) (Ord. 117, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ANIMAL WASTE.
   Any person owning, keeping, possessing, or harboring any dog, cat, or other
animal shall promptly remove and dispose of all feces left by the dog, cat, or
animal on any public property and on any private property not owned by such
person or lawfully occupied by such person.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.06) (Ord. 117, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 SPECIES RESTRICTIONS.
   No horses, cows, goats, pigs, sheep, llamas, or other bovine or equine
livestock may be kept within the limits of the town except on land parcels
larger than two acres.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.07) (Ord. 117, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 ABSOLUTE LIABILITY.
   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
92.99. Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described in
M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.09) (Ord. 117, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.06 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $50.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.08) (Ord. 117, passed 8-27-2007)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
110.01   Applicability
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Enforcement; authority
   
110.04   Location restrictions
   
110.05   Exceptions to location restrictions
   
110.06   Property requirements
   
110.07   Sanitation
   
110.08   Public safety and security
   
110.09   Water usage; monitoring
   
110.10   Liability
   
110.11   Notice of violation
   
110.12   Suspension
   
110.13   Dispute/appeal
   
110.14   Authority of incorporated towns and municipalities
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 APPLICABILITY.
   It is hereby resolved that the following chapter is hereby adopted and shall
apply to all areas of the county on the effective date below.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them below. The general definitional rules of M.C.A. § 1-2-105 apply to this
chapter. All terms not specifically defined herein are to be defined according
to their common usage at the time of the passage of the ordinance codified
herein.
      COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA PREMISES. Any marijuana dispensary, marijuana
manufacturer, marijuana testing laboratory, or other premises at which a
substantial amount of commercial activity related to the sale, production,
promotion, or consumption of THC products occurs.
      MARIJUANA. All plant material from the genus Cannabis containing
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) or seeds of the genus capable of germination. The
term does not include hemp, including any part of that plant and including the
seeds and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and
salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of not more than 0.3% on a dry-weight basis, or commodities or
products manufactured with hemp, or any other ingredient combined with
marijuana to prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink, or other
products.
      MARIJUANA DERIVATIVE. Any mixture or preparation of the dried leaves,
flowers, resins, or byproducts of the marijuana plant including but not limited
to marijuana concentrates and marijuana-infused products.
      MARIJUANA DISPENSARY or DISPENSARY. Any premises from which THC products
are available for commercial sale to general consumers and/or to medical
marijuana cardholders. A hospital, clinic, pharmacy, or doctor’s office shall
not be considered a MARIJUANA DISPENSARY merely because they may prescribe or
dispense medical marijuana unless prescribing or dispensing medical marijuana
is the location’s primary source of revenue.
      MARIJUANA-INFUSED PRODUCT. A product that contains marijuana and is
intended for use by a means other than smoking. The term includes but is not
limited to edible products, ointments, and tinctures.
      MARIJUANA MANUFACTURER. Includes any agricultural facility engaged in
growing medical and/or recreational marijuana for commercial purposes as well
as any location at which THC products are manufactured for commercial purposes,
regardless of whether the commercial product is intended to be available for
recreational use, medical use, or both.
      MARIJUANA PROVIDER. A person licensed by the Department of Revenue to
manufacture and provide marijuana-infused products for consumers and/or
licensed by the Department of Health and Human Services to manufacture and
provide medical marijuana to cardholders.
      MARIJUANA TESTING LABORATORY. A location which provides testing of
representative samples of THC products and/or provides information regarding
the chemical composition, the potency of a sample, and the presence of molds,
pesticides, or other contaminants in a sample.
      OPERATING or OPERATIONS.
         (a)   As applied to a marijuana dispensary. The dispensary is open to
the general public and/or medical marijuana cardholders for the purchase of THC
products for a minimum of eight hours per week.
         (b)   As applied to a marijuana manufacturer. Active production and/or
preparation for the production of marijuana or other THC products is occurring
at the premises; or, in cases where seasonal weather conditions prevent the
chosen method of production from being viable, that production was occurring at
the last time that conditions were viable and is intended to resume.
         (c)   As applied to a marijuana testing laboratory. Testing of
marijuana or THC products is occurring and/or is available.
      PUBLIC PARK. Includes the County Fairgrounds and any playground or
outdoor sports facility that is open for free to the general public during most
or all daylight hours without an advance reservation. The term does not include
fishing accesses, state or national forests, campgrounds, or BLM land.
      RESIDENCE. Includes any private premises where a person lives such as a
private dwelling, a place of habitation, a house, a multi-dwelling unit for
residential occupants, or an apartment unit, regardless of whether said
premises is occupied seasonally or year round, as well as any building which is
publicly available for sale for residential purposes.
      RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. Any platted subdivision that is primarily
residential in character, includes ten or more residences, and is not within a
town site.
      THC PRODUCTS. Includes marijuana, marijuana concentrate, marijuana
derivatives, and marijuana-infused products, and any other naturally occurring
or synthetic product which contains THC and which is advertised or intended for
the medicinal and/or recreational uses commonly associated with marijuana. The
term does not include CBD or hemp products with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of not more than 0.3% on a dry-weight basis.
   (B)   (1)   When computing the distance between a commercial marijuana
premises and a school, library, daycare facility, public park, or public pool,
distance shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest legal parcel line of the land used for the school, library, daycare
facility, public park, or public pool to the nearest external portion of the
building including the commercial marijuana premises.
      (2)   When computing the distance between a commercial marijuana premises
and a residence, distance shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight
line from the nearest external portion of the residential building to the
nearest external portion of the building including the commercial marijuana
premises.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 110.03 ENFORCEMENT; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The County Sheriff, Undersheriff, deputies, or other designated
Sheriff representatives are hereby vested with the power and authority to
enforce all portions of this chapter. Such authority includes but is not
limited to:
      (1)   The authority to investigate alleged or suspected violations of
this chapter;
      (2)   To issue complaints;
      (3)   To issue notices of violations;
      (4)   To post notices of violations at a commercial marijuana premises
found to be in violation; and
      (5)   Where necessary to obtain compliance with a suspension under §
110.12, to lock or otherwise physically block access to a commercial marijuana
facility.
   (B)   The County Sanitarian’s office and its designated representatives are
also hereby vested with authority to enforce §
110.07. Such authority includes but is not limited to:
      (1)   The authority to investigate alleged or suspected violations of
this chapter;
      (2)   To issue complaints;
      (3)   To issue notices of violations; and
      (4)   To post notices of violations at a commercial marijuana premises
found to be in violation.
   (C)   Owners or operators of commercial marijuana premises are responsible
to make the premises available for inspection by the County Sanitarian and/or
County Sheriff’s office at any time during their regular business hours (and at
other times if reasonable advance notice is given) for the purposes of
confirming that they are complying with this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to limit the authority of the
Department of Revenue, Department of Public Health and Human Service, or any
other state or federal agency to enforce relevant laws and regulations in the
county.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No commercial marijuana premises may be located within 500 feet of a
school or daycare facility.
   (B)   No commercial marijuana premises may be located within 250 feet of a
library, public park, or public pool.
   (C)   No marijuana manufacturer may be located within 1,000 feet of a
school, daycare facility, library, public park, or public pool, or within 250
feet of a residence.
   (D)   No commercial marijuana premises or marijuana provider may advertise
or promote itself, marijuana use, or a specific marijuana product within 500
feet of a school, daycare facility, library, public park, or public pool, with
the exception of signage which is at the property of the commercial marijuana
premises and which is fully compliant with any applicable rules created by the
Department of Revenue and/or Department of Public Health and Human Services.
   (E)   No commercial marijuana premises may be located within a residential
subdivision.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 EXCEPTIONS TO LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The location restrictions of §
110.04(A) and (B) shall not apply to any commercial marijuana premises which
can show that it has been in continuous operations at the same location since
November 2, 2021.
   (B)   The location restrictions of §
110.04(A), (B), and (C) shall not apply to any commercial marijuana premises
which can show that it was already in continuous operations at its current
location at the time that any school, daycare facility, library, public park,
and/or public pool which would otherwise cause a violation of this chapter
began operations.
   (C)   The location restrictions of §§
110.04(C) and
110.06(C) shall not consider any residence which is constructed after the
commercial marijuana premises in question began continuous operations in the
same location.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners may grant an exception to the location
restriction in §
110.04(E) upon receipt of a petition signed by at least 50% of the real
property owners within the subdivision stating that they wish a commercial
marijuana premises to be permitted and following a public hearing. If the
petition is signed by all real property owners within the subdivision, then the
exception must be granted.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 110.06 PROPERTY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Commercial marijuana premises are responsible to ensure that THC
products are not plainly visible from any residence, public property, or public
roadway.
   (B)   Marijuana providers who use grow lights are required to ensure that
grow lighting is not plainly visible from any residence, public property, or
public roadway during night hours.
   (C)   Commercial marijuana premises which are located within 500 feet of any
residence may not be open to the public or require employees to be present
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. and may not have more than seven
employees working at the premises at any single time.
   (D)   Commercial marijuana premises must ensure that they do not generate
any marijuana odors which are clearly discernable within the interior of any
residence, other business, or public building, or at any outdoor location more
than 100 feet from their property during normal weather.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 SANITATION.
   (A)   At least 15 business days prior to beginning operations in the county,
any marijuana manufacturer or marijuana testing laboratory must provide the
County Sanitarian’s office with a written plan for disposal of any chemicals,
runoff, fertilizer, marijuana plant waste, or other substances which are
regulated by the County Sanitarian, State Department of Environmental Quality,
or U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or which otherwise could plausibly
create a public health hazard exceeding the hazards created by ordinary
household trash. The County Sanitarian shall provide the applicant with written
notice of approval or of the reasons for disapproval in a timely manner.
   (B)   If the plan is approved, the marijuana provider shall comply with the
approved plan, shall notify the County Sanitarian if changes to his or her
operations require the plan to be modified, and shall file an updated plan with
the Sanitarian annually on or before the date the original plan was approved.
   (C)   If the plan is rejected by the Sanitarian, the applicant may submit an
updated or amended plan which addresses the Sanitarian’s concerns and shall not
begin operations until a plan is approved.
   (D)   Marijuana manufacturers which are located within 1,000 feet of any
residence must install carbon or charcoal filters or similar devices sufficient
to prevent marijuana or other chemical smells from being immediately
discernable on any other person’s property during normal weather. The
Sanitarian is given discretion to resolve any disputes regarding the adequacy
of a given manufacturer’s filtration system.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 PUBLIC SAFETY AND SECURITY.
   (A)   Commercial marijuana premises are responsible to ensure that any
buildings containing THC products are locked at all times that employees are
not immediately present. THC products may not be stored or grown outdoors,
except temporarily during transportation.
   (B)   Commercial marijuana premises are responsible to ensure that any
building which regularly stores THC products with a total market value of
$10,000 or more has security video and/or motion- activated still-image cameras
which cover all entrances and exits and which are operating in good repair at
all times that THC products are on the premises.
   (C)   Commercial marijuana premises may not employ or subcontract with any
person who is under 18 years of age and may not knowingly permit any person who
is under 18 years of age to be present on the premises unless that person is a
medical marijuana cardholder and/or is in the immediate presence of a parent or
guardian.
   (D)   Commercial marijuana premises may not sell, give, or otherwise
transfer THC products to the general public between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 WATER USAGE; MONITORING.
   Agricultural marijuana manufacturers whose water usage is not monitored by a
town or other government entity shall accurately monitor their water usage,
shall retain records of their water usage for a period of at least three years,
and shall provide the County Sanitarian with copies of any such records for
each calendar year on or before March 15 for the prior year. Such records may
be considered by the Commission in the event that regulation of water usage by
marijuana manufacturers becomes necessary in the future.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 LIABILITY.
   A marijuana provider or other owner or operator of a commercial marijuana
premises may be held absolutely liable under this chapter for his or her own
actions or omissions or the actions of any employee, contractor, or other agent
who is acting within the scope of his or her employment, contract, or other
agency.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 110.11 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Upon determining that a violation of this chapter has occurred, the
Sheriff’s office, County Sanitarian, or County Attorney’s office shall provide
the marijuana provider or other owner or operator of the commercial marijuana
premises with written notice of the violation. Notice shall be considered
sufficient if it is delivered to or posted at the location of the commercial
marijuana business, mailed to the address which the marijuana provider has
provided to the Department of Revenue and/or Department of Public Health and
Human Services, and/or by any other means which provides the owner or operator
with actual notice of a violation.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 110.12 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   If a violation of this chapter is not corrected within 30 days of
receiving notice, the owner or operator shall be suspended from operating any
commercial marijuana premises in the county for a period of 30 days or until
the violation is remedied and the fine is paid, whichever period of time is
longer.
   (B)   If the same commercial marijuana premises and/or the same owner or
operator has been previously suspended under division (A) above within three
years of the violation, he or she shall be suspended from operating for a
minimum of 90 days.
   (C)   If the same commercial marijuana premises and/or the same owner or
operator has been previously suspended under division (A) above two or more
times within three years of the violation, he or she shall be suspended from
operating or having any financial interest in any commercial marijuana premises
in the county indefinitely.
   (D)   An indefinite suspension may be lifted by the Board of Commissioners
following a public hearing.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 DISPUTE/APPEAL.
   A person or business who is accused of violating this chapter may dispute
the violation in the county’s Justice Court. The fact that a dispute exists
shall not be grounds to stay any suspension under §
110.12 unless the Justice Court finds that the accused entity meets the
qualifications for a preliminary injunction under the state’s Rules of Civil
Procedure.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 110.14 AUTHORITY OF INCORPORATED TOWNS AND MUNICIPALITIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting the authority of a
town or municipality to regulate commercial marijuana premises within its
boundaries through zoning, taxes, or other regulations which are more
restrictive than those in this chapter. However, the fact that a commercial
marijuana premises has been approved by a zoning board or other municipal
government entity shall not be a defense to any alleged violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   An employee or other agent of a commercial marijuana premises
who violates any provision of this chapter may be held individually responsible
for the fine described in division (A)(2) below if he or she is found to have
acted purposefully or knowingly.
      (2)   A violation of this chapter is punishable by a civil fine of $250.
   (B)   Purposely or knowingly operating a commercial marijuana premises in
the county during a period of suspension shall be punishable by a civil fine of
$500 and by forfeiture of any THC products located at the commercial marijuana
premises during operations. Each day that operations continue shall be
considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-19-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC WELFARE
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
132.   MINORS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC WELFARE
Section
Weapons
   
130.01   Carrying concealed weapons
   
130.02   Discharge of firearms
 
   
130.99   Penalty
**** WEAPONS ****
§ 130.01 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall carry or bear upon his or her person a concealed
weapon including a dirk, dagger, pistol, revolver, slingshot, billy, knuckles
made of metal or hard substances, knife having a blade four inches long or
longer, razor (not including a safety razor), or other dangerous or deadly
weapon without written permission from the proper authority having power to
grant such permit.
      (2)   CONCEALED WEAPONS, within the meaning of this section, shall mean
any weapon mentioned herein which shall be wholly or partially covered by
clothing or wearing apparel of the person carrying or bearing such weapon.
(Prior Code, § 4.09.01)
   (B)   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
130.99(B). Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status
described in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 4.09.03)
(Ord. 112, passed 8-13-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall, except in necessary defense of himself, herself, or
others; or unless duly authorized by law, discharge any firearm within the
jurisdictional limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.01)
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the discharge of
firearms while conducting organized training programs on any legal rifle range,
small arms range, or skeet/trap range; nor to uninhabited, nonresidential open
spaces within town limits and more than 100 yards from any occupied structure.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.02)
   (C)   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
130.99(C). Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status
described in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.04)
(Ord. 111, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 4.09.02)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.02 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.03)
(Ord. 111, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 112, passed 8-13-2007)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
Disturbing the Peace
   
131.01   Prohibited acts
   
131.02   Exceptions
   
131.03   Absolute liability
 
   
131.99   Penalty
**** DISTURBING THE PEACE ****
§ 131.01 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall unnecessarily:
   (A)   Disturb the peace or quiet of any street, neighborhood, family, or
person by loud or unusual noises;
   (B)   Make any false alarms;
   (C)   Threaten, quarrel, or scold;
   (D)   Provoke or commit an assault, threaten to commit an assault, or commit
an assault and battery;
   (E)   Harbor or keep any habitually barking dog;
   (F)   Disturb the rest, sleep, peace, and quietness of any person or
neighborhood by maintaining and keeping noisy poultry or an animal or animals;
or
   (G)   By any other means or manner whatsoever, unnecessarily disturb the
peace and quiet of any person or neighborhood.
(Ord. 113, passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   An exception is made to the requirements of §
131.01 for live music or outdoor concerts, which shall be allowed within the
jurisdictional limits of the town up to and until 10:00 p.m. on any Sunday
through Thursday; and up to and until 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on any Friday and
Saturday.
(Ord. 113, passed - -2019)
§ 131.03 ABSOLUTE LIABILITY.
   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
131.99(B). Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status
described in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Ord. 113, passed - -2019)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
131.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 113, passed - -2019)
CHAPTER 132: MINORS
Section
   
132.01   Curfew
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   No minor under 16 years of age shall loiter, idle, wander, or play
upon the public streets, highways, alleys, parks, playgrounds, school grounds,
or other public places, buildings, vacant lots, or other unsupervised places or
premises between the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) of any day and 6:00 a.m. of
the following morning unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, guardian,
or other adult person charged with the care and custody of the minor, unless
the minor is upon an emergency errand or other legitimate business or
employment.
(Prior Code, § 4.11.01)
   (B)   It shall be deemed a violation of this section for any parent,
guardian, or other adult person charged with the care and custody of the minor
to allow or permit such minor, either expressly or by neglect, to loiter, idle,
wander, or play upon the public streets, highways, alleys, parks, playgrounds,
school grounds, or other public places, buildings, vacant lots, or other
unsupervised places or premises between the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) of
any day and 6:00 a.m. of the following morning unless accompanied and
supervised by a parent, guardian, or other adult person charged with the care
and custody of the minor, unless the minor is upon an emergency errand or other
legitimate business or employment.
(Prior Code, § 4.11.02)
   (C)   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
132.99. Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described
in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 4.11.04)
(Ord. 114, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
132.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 4.11.03) (Ord. 114, passed 8-27-2007)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SIDEWALKS, STREETS, AND ALLEYS
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Town permit
Excavation Sites
   
150.15   Required barricades
   
150.16   Forfeiture of town permit
   
150.17   Barricade removal
   
150.18   Damaging newly laid concrete
   
150.19   Absolute liability
 
   
150.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 150.01 TOWN PERMIT.
   (A)   There is a town permit, which is required to be in the possession of
any person accessing or using the public right-of-way as may be required by any
town ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2.03.01)
   (B)   The form of the town permit is established at attachment to the
ordinance codified herein and must be authenticated by the signature of the
appropriate town official prior to issuance.
      (1)   No town permit shall be issued unless and until all inspections
required by the relevant ordinance have been completed satisfactorily by the
appropriate town official.
      (2)   (a)   The permittee shall promptly notify the appropriate town
official upon completion of the project in order to enable effective and timely
inspection of the project site by the appropriate town official, as may be
required on the town permit or by the relevant ordinance.
         (b)   Any and all work and materials that may be required to enable
the conduct of an effective inspection of the project by a town official shall
be the responsibility of the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 2.03.02)
(Ord. 121, passed 8-27-2007)
**** EXCAVATION SITES ****
§ 150.15 REQUIRED BARRICADES.
   Whenever excavation work on any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
place within the town is in progress, effective barricades shall be provided
and erected by the contractor or other person in control around all trenches,
holes, excavations, or embankments made by the contractor. Warning lights shall
be illuminated and maintained thereon from dusk to daylight until the street,
alley, sidewalk, or other public place shall be restored to a safe and passable
condition.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.01) (Ord. 110, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 FORFEITURE OF TOWN PERMIT.
   Failure or omission to protect the public from accidents in the manner
described herein this subchapter shall result in the forfeiture of any town
permit related to the project which may have been granted by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.02) (Ord. 110, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 150.17 BARRICADE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Following completion of the construction work and restoration of the
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public property to a safe and passable
condition, the contractor or other person in charge of the work shall promptly
remove all barricades, warning lights, and other safety devices from the work
site.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.03)
   (B)   No person shall move, remove, or disable any barricade, warning
lights, or other warning devices placed on a street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public place as required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.04)
(Ord. 110, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18 DAMAGING NEWLY LAID CONCRETE.
   Where barricades, warning lights, or other warning devices have been placed
and maintained to protect newly laid concrete, no person shall walk, run,
drive, ride, or step upon the newly laid concrete so as to mark, mar, or in any
way damage or deface the same.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.05) (Ord. 110, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.19 ABSOLUTE LIABILITY.
   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
150.99. Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described
in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.07) (Ord. 110, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who fails to acquire a town permit authorizing his or her
access to or use of the public right-of-way prior to accessing or using the
public right-of-way in violation of §
150.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 2.03.03)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.18 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.06)
(Ord. 110, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 121, passed 8-27-2007)
CHAPTER 151: SIDEWALKS, STREETS, AND ALLEYS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Right-of-way; obstruction, encroachment, and private use
Sidewalks
   
151.15   Property owner responsibility
   
151.16   Maintenance; safe conditions
   
151.17   Construction standards
   
151.18   Required permit
   
151.19   Abatement of hazards
   
151.20   Absolute liability
 
   
151.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY; OBSTRUCTION, ENCROACHMENT, AND PRIVATE USE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, it is unlawful to
obstruct the public right-of- way with debris, machinery and equipment,
encumbrances, or encroachments of any kind which hamper or interfere with the
free and safe use or passage by the public. Encroachments shall include all
private devices placed upon the public right-of-way, including devices which
overhang or underlie the right-of- way.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.01)
   (B)   No private sign, eave, marquee, or similar device is permitted to
encroach on public rights-of- way within the town’s jurisdictional limits,
except as may be permitted by a town permit that may be issued by the town for
limited duration.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.02)
   (C)   No gainful private or commercial use of the public right-of-way is
permitted, including but not limited to non-emergency servicing or washing of
vehicles and parking or placing of portable advertising devices, except as may
be permitted by a town permit that may be issued by the town for limited
duration.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.03)
   (D)   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
151.99. Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described
in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.05)
(Ord. 109, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
151.99
**** SIDEWALKS ****
§ 151.15 PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The cost of constructing, maintaining, and repairing sidewalks that front or
abut private property is the responsibility of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.01) (Ord. 108, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 151.16 MAINTENANCE; SAFE CONDITIONS.
   Property owners shall maintain abutting sidewalks in good repair, cleared of
snow and ice, and free of obstructions, litter, peelings, or any other
materials that might reasonably interfere with unfettered pedestrian passage or
that may constitute a hazard to the safe pedestrian use of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.02) (Ord. 108, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.17 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   Sidewalks abutting businesses shall be six feet in width with a grade to be
established by a qualified surveyor where no sidewalk has previously been
constructed. Sidewalks in residential areas shall be four feet in width. Only
good quality, reinforced concrete is to be used in constructing sidewalks and
laid to a thickness of four inches while maintaining a six-inch curb height.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.03) (Ord. 108, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.18 REQUIRED PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall cut, excavate, dig, or otherwise damage a sidewalk
without first obtaining a town permit to do so as provided in division (B)
below. If a walk cut or excavation is permitted by the town, the permittee
shall take all necessary precautions including, at a minimum: appropriate
warning signage, lighting, barricades, and safe alternative routes to ensure
that safe alternative pedestrian passage is maintained during construction.
   (B)   Prior to issuing a town permit to cut, excavate, or otherwise damage a
sidewalk within town limits, the applicant must provide proof of general
liability insurance in an amount acceptable to the town and which includes the
town as an additional named insured.
      (1)   Additionally, the construction site must be inspected by a town
official to ensure that the sidewalk cut is feasible and will not unnecessarily
damage or interrupt town services. A permit shall not be issued until this
inspection has been completed to the satisfaction of the inspecting official.
      (2)   Following completion of the project, the permittee will so advise
the town inspecting official who shall again inspect the construction site to
ensure that the sidewalk has been restored, in a timely fashion, to a safe and
satisfactory condition.
   (C)   No town permit to cut, excavate, or otherwise damage a sidewalk shall
be issued to an applicant without first furnishing a public liability bond, in
the sum of $1,000, approved as to form and sufficiency by the Mayor or Director
of Public Works and conditioned that such person will, in good faith, perform
all the things required of him or her by this subchapter; and that if any
injury to any person or damage to any property results by reason of his or her
failure or neglect to conform with this subchapter, he or she shall save
harmless and indemnify such injured person or the owner of such damaged
property.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.04) (Ord. 108, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 ABATEMENT OF HAZARDS.
   (A)   Upon determination by the Mayor of the town that a sidewalk is in a
hazardous condition or that dangerous obstructions interfere with or impede
safe pedestrian passage thereon, the Mayor may, in writing, order the abatement
of the hazard and require repair of the sidewalk or removal of obstructions by
the abutting property owner within 30 days of receipt of the written order.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that the abutting property owner fails to abate the
hazard within 30 days, the Mayor may order necessary repairs of the sidewalk or
removal of the obstruction by employees of the town or by contract for private
services.
      (2)   The cost of such repair, removal, and abatement of hazard shall be
payable to the town by the property owner or owners and, if unpaid after 60
days from the date of billing, the cost shall be included with interest on the
property tax bill of the owner or owners, pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.05) (Ord. 108, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 151.20 ABSOLUTE LIABILITY.
   It is the legislative purpose of the Town Council, pursuant to the
provisions of M.C.A. § 45-2-104, to impose absolute liability for the
misdemeanor offense(s) enacted by and set forth in §
151.99. Those offenses shall not require proof of the mental status described
in M.C.A. § 45-2-101.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.07) (Ord. 108, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
151.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.04)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
151.16 through
151.18 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.06)
(Ord. 108, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 109, passed 8-27-2007)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Adoption of regulations
   
152.002   Title; citation
   
152.003   Statutory and regulatory authority
   
152.004   Findings of fact
   
152.005   Purpose
   
152.006   Methods to reduce losses
   
152.007   Regulated area
   
152.008   Floodplain Administrator
   
152.009   Compliance
   
152.010   Abrogation and greater responsibility
   
152.011   Regulation interpretation
   
152.012   Warning and disclaimer; liability
   
152.013   Disclosure
   
152.014   Amendment of regulations
   
152.015   Public records
   
152.016   Subdivision review
   
152.017   Disaster recovery
   
152.018   Emergencies
   
152.019   Definitions
   
152.020   Codes; identification numbers
Forms and Fees; Floodplain Permits
   
152.035   Types of forms
   
152.036   Fees
   
152.037   Uses requiring floodplain permits
   
152.038   Permit application information
   
152.039   Application review
   
152.040   Application notice requirements
   
152.041   Permit criteria
   
152.042   Approval or denial of permit
   
152.043   Conditions and requirements upon approval
   
152.044   Additional reviews
Regulated Flood Hazard Areas; Boundaries
   
152.055   Regulated flood hazard areas
   
152.056   Interpretation of regulated flood hazard area boundaries
   
152.057   Alteration of regulated flood hazard areas
Uses, Activities, and Structures
   
152.070   Existing obstructions and nonconforming uses
   
152.071   Open spaces
   
152.072   Prohibited uses/structures in floodways
   
152.073   Prohibited uses/structures in fringe/non-floodway areas
Floodway Development Requirements
   
152.085   Uses requiring permits
   
152.086   Project/application requirements and considerations
   
152.087   Mining requiring excavation from pits/pools
   
152.088   Railroad, high, and street stream crossings
   
152.089   Limited filling for road and railroad embankments
   
152.090   Buried or suspended utility transmission lines
   
152.091   Materials and equipment storage
   
152.092   Domestic water supply wells
   
152.093   Buried/sealed sewage vaults
   
152.094   Public and private campgrounds
   
152.095   Accessory/appurtenant structures
   
152.096   Construction/modification of surface water diversions
   
152.097   Flood control; stream bank stabilization
   
152.098   Stream and bank restoration
   
152.099   Existing residential/nonresidential buildings
Fringe/Non-Floodway Development Requirements
   
152.110   Uses requiring permits
   
152.111   Project/application requirements and considerations
   
152.112   Residential buildings
   
152.113   Nonresidential buildings
Variances
   
152.125   Variances allowed; application
   
152.126   Evaluation
   
152.127   Approval or denial
   
152.128   Appeal/review
Administrative Appeals
   
152.140   Appeals allowed; requirements
   
152.141   Notice and hearing; decision
   
152.142   Judicial review
Enforcement
   
152.155   Investigation request
   
152.156   Notice to enter
   
152.157   Notice of violation; abatement
   
152.158   Administrative review
   
152.159   Appeal
   
152.160   Failure to comply
   
152.161   Other remedies
 
   
152.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 152.001 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   The Town Council adopts the “Town of Sheridan Floodplain Hazard Management
Regulations” in this chapter.
(Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.002 TITLE; CITATION.
   These regulations are known and may be cited as the “Town of Sheridan
Floodplain Hazard Management Regulations”; hereinafter referred to as “these
regulations”.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.003 STATUTORY AND REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Floodplain and floodway management is codified at M.C.A. Title 76,
Chapter 5 and describes the authority, procedures, and minimum standards for
local regulations. Regulation for floodplain management established by the
State Department of Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC) are located in
Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM) Chapter 36.15.
   (B)   The authority to regulate development in specifically identified flood
hazard areas has been accepted pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-5-301.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.004 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood hazard areas specifically adopted herein as regulated flood
hazard areas have been delineated and designated by order or determination of
the DNRC pursuant to M.C.A. §§ 76-5-201 et seq.
   (B)   These regulations have been reviewed by the State Department of
Natural Resources and Conservation and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
The State Department of Natural Resources and Conservation has found the
regulations acceptable in meeting the Department’s minimum standards. The
Federal Emergency Management Agency finds that these regulations are adequate
and consistent with the comprehensive criteria for land management and use
pursuant to the standards established in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
(ARM § 36.15.202)
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 42 U.S.C. § 4022
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.1(b)
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-302
§ 152.005 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare of the residents and minimize public and private losses due to
flood conditions in regulated flood hazard areas. These regulations are
intended to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business and public service interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone, and sewer lines; and streets and bridges;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
disruptions; and
   (G)   Ensure compliance with the minimum standards for the continued
participation in the National Flood Insurance Program for the benefit of the
residents.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.006 METHODS TO REDUCE LOSSES.
   In accordance with M.C.A. § 76-5-102, these regulations are intended to
reduce flood losses through the following methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or that may cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses of land vulnerable to floods, including public
facilities, be developed or constructed to at least minimum standards or to
otherwise minimize flood damage;
   (C)   Regulate the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are needed to accommodate floodwaters;
   (D)   Regulate filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
impact other land, floodwater depth, or velocity of floodwaters;
   (F)   Distinguish between the land-use regulations applied to the floodway
within the regulated flood hazard area and those applied to that portion of the
regulated flood hazard area not contained in the floodway;
   (G)   Apply more restrictive land-use regulations within the floodway of the
regulated flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that regulations and minimum standards balance the greatest
public good with the least private injury.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.007 REGULATED AREA.
   (A)   These regulations apply only to the flood hazard areas specifically
adopted herein as regulated flood hazard areas, which are more fully and
specifically described in §§
152.055 through
152.057. Requirements and approvals for alterations to the regulated flood
hazard area are specified in §§
152.055 through
152.057.
   (B)   The regulated flood hazard area includes areas specifically
identified, labeled, and illustrated on maps such as floodplain, floodway, or
flood fringe that have differing uses allowed and minimum building standards
that apply. The regulated flood hazard area is the geographic area inundated by
the flood of 100-year frequency illustrated and depicted in the referenced
studies and maps.
   (C)   (1)   The regulated flood hazard area supporting study and maps
illustrating the regulatory area are based on studies and maps that have been
specifically adopted pursuant to M.C.A. §§ 76-5-201 et seq. The maps and
accompanying study becomes the regulated flood hazard area only when formally
adopted by DNRC and subsequently by the political subdivision by these
regulations.
      (2)   The original source of studies and data may be from a flood
insurance study by FEMA or other studies by Corps of Engineers, Soil
Conservation, United States Geological Service, or other federal or state
agencies.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.008 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   A Floodplain Administrator is hereby the responsibility of the Town
Mayor. The Floodplain Administrator’s duty is to administer and implement the
provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator must serve to meet and maintain the
commitments pursuant to 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(a) to FEMA to remain eligible for
national flood insurance for individuals and business within the political
subdivision.
(ARM § 36.15.204(2)(h)) (Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(b)(1)
§ 152.009 COMPLIANCE.
   Development, new construction, alteration, or substantial improvement may
not commence without full compliance with the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.010 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is not intended by these regulations to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, zoning, or other regulations
in effect. However, where these regulations impose greater restrictions, the
provision of these regulations must prevail.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.1(d)
§ 152.011 REGULATION INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statute or regulation.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.1
§ 152.012 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER; LIABILITY.
   (A)   These regulations do not imply that land outside the regulated flood
hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages.
   (B)   These regulations shall not create liability on the part of the
community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.013 DISCLOSURE.
   All property owners or their agents in the regulated flood hazard areas
shall notify potential buyers or their agents that such property, including any
permitted uses transferred, is located within the regulated flood hazard area
and is subject to regulation and any permitted uses that are transferred.
Information regarding regulated flood hazard areas and the repository for
floodplain maps is available in the Floodplain Administrator’s office.
(ARM § 36.15.204(2)(g)) (Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.014 AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations may be amended after notice and public hearing in regard
to the amendments to these regulations. The amendments must be found adequate
and acceptable by DNRC and FEMA to be effective and must be submitted for
review at least 30 days prior to official adoption.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.015 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Records, including permits and applications, elevation, and floodproofing
certificates, certificates of compliance, fee receipts, and other matters
relating to these regulations must be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator and are public records and must be made available for inspection
and for copies upon reasonable request. A reasonable copying cost for copying
documents for members of the public may be charged and may require payments of
the costs before providing the copies.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. §§ 59.22(a)(9)(iii) and 60.3(b)(5)(iii)
§ 152.016 SUBDIVISION REVIEW.
   The requirements of the county subdivision regulations, in addition to those
established in these regulations, apply to subdivisions within the regulated
flood hazard area, including but not limited to new or expansion of existing
manufactured home parks, and must be designed to meet the following criteria:
   (A)   The base flood elevations and boundary of the regulated flood hazard
area must be determined and considered during lot layout and building location
design;
   (B)   Locations for future structures and development must be reasonably
safe from flooding;
   (C)   Adequate surface water drainage must be provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards;
   (D)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and
water systems must be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
   (E)   Floodplain permits must be obtained according to these regulations
before development occurs that is within the regulated flood hazard area.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(4), 60.3(a)(4)(ii), 60.3(a)(4)
(iii), and 60.3(b)
§ 152.017 DISASTER RECOVERY.
   (A)   In the event of a natural or human-made disaster, the Floodplain
Administrator should participate in the coordination of assistance and provide
information to structure owners concerning hazard mitigation and recovery
measures with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, State Disaster Emergency
Services, State Department of Natural Resources and Conservation, and other
state, local, and private emergency service organizations.
   (B)   Upon completion of a cursory street-view structure-condition survey of
the regulated flood hazard area, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify
property owners that a permit may be necessary for an alteration or substantial
improvement before repair or reconstruction commences on damaged structures.
These permitting requirements apply even when structures are damaged by natural
or human- made disasters such as floods, earthquakes, fires, or winds.
   (C)   Owners should be advised that structures that have suffered
substantial damage and will undergo substantial improvements require a
floodplain application and permit, and must be upgraded to meet the minimum
building standards herein during repair or reconstruction.
(ARM § 36.15.702)
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(2-3)
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-404(3)(b)
§ 152.018 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Emergency repair and replacement of severely damaged artificial
obstructions and development in the regulated flood hazard area, including
public transportation facilities, public water and sewer facilities, flood
control works, and private projects are subject to the permitting requirements
of these regulations.
(ARM § 36.15.217)
   (B)   The provisions of these regulations are not intended to affect other
actions that are necessary to safeguard life or structures during periods of
emergency.
   (C)   (1)   The property owner and/or the person responsible for taking
emergency action must notify the Floodplain Administrator prior to initiating
any emergency action in a regulated flood hazard area normally requiring a
floodplain permit. An emergency notification form must be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator within five days of the action taken as a result of an
emergency.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified by the Floodplain Administrator, within
30 days of initiating the emergency action, a person who has undertaken an
emergency action must submit a floodplain permit application that describes
what action has taken place during the emergency and describes any additional
work that may be required to bring the project in compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   A person who has undertaken an emergency action may be required to
modify or remove the project in order to meet the permit requirements.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.019 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. One-percent annual chance flood. See BASE FLOOD.
   ALTERATION. Any change or addition to an artificial obstruction that either
increases its external dimensions or increases its potential flood hazard.
(ARM § 36.15.101(2))
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure in which the use is incidental or
accessory to the use of a principal structure.
   ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION. Any obstruction which is not natural and includes
any development, dam, diversion, wall, riprap, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, revetment, excavation, channel rectification, road,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, refuse, automobile body, fill, or other
analogous structure or matter in, along, across, or projecting into any
regulated flood hazard area that may impede, retard, or change the direction of
the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried
by the water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water would carry
the same downstream to the damage or detriment of either life or property. See
also DEVELOPMENT.
(ARM § 36.15.101(3)) (M.C.A. § 76-5-103(1))
   BASE FLOOD (FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY). A flood having a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
(ARM § 36.15.101(4))
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation above sea level of the base flood
in relation to the National Geodic Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 or unless otherwise specified.
(ARM § 36.15.101(5))
   BASEMENT. Any area of a building, except a crawlspace, having its lowest
floor below ground level on all sides.
(NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013)
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   CHANNEL. The geographical area within either the natural or artificial banks
of a watercourse or drain way.
(M.C.A. § 76-5-103(2))
   CRAWLSPACE. An enclosure that has its interior floor area no more than five
feet below the top of the next highest floor. See ENCLOSURE and SUBGRADE
CRAWLSPACE.
(NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013)
   DNRC. State Department of Natural Resources and Conservation.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials. See also ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A building that has no basement and that has it lowest
elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls,
posts, piers, pilings, or columns. A building on a crawlspace may be considered
an elevated building.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion below the lowest elevated floor of an elevated
building that is either partially or fully shut in by rigid walls, including a
crawlspace, subgrade crawlspace, stairwell, elevator, or a garage below or
attached.
   ENCROACHMENT. Activities or construction within the regulated flood hazard
area including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and other
development.
   ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed by an
engineer to assess the effects of the proposed artificial obstruction or
nonconforming use on base flood elevation, flood flows, and flood velocities.
   ESTABLISH. To construct, place, insert, or excavate.
(ARM § 36.15.101(9)) (M.C.A. § 76-5-103(7))
   EXISTING ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION OR NONCONFORMING USE. An artificial
obstruction or nonconforming use that was established before land-use
regulations were adopted pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-5-301(1).
(M.C.A. § 76-5-404(3))
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The identified portion of the floodplain of the regulated
flood hazard area outside the limits of the floodway.
(ARM § 36.15.101(10))
   FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY (BASE FLOOD). A flood magnitude expected to
recur on the average of once every 100 years, or a flood magnitude that has a
1% chance of occurring in any given year.
(M.C.A. § 76-5-103(9))
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). Official map of a community on which FEMA
has delineated the special flood hazard areas (SFHAs), the base flood
elevations (BFEs), and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). A compilation and presentation of flood risk
data for specific watercourses, lakes, and coastal flood hazard areas within a
community. When a flood study is completed for the NFIP, the information and
maps are assembled into an FIS. The FIS REPORT contains detailed flood
elevation data in flood profiles and data tables.
   FLOODPLAIN. The area of the regulated flood hazard area including and
adjoining the watercourse or drain way that would be covered by the floodwater
of a base flood. The area is partitioned into a flood fringe and floodway where
specifically designated. See REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. Community official or representative appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
   FLOODPLAIN PERMIT. The permit issued by the Floodplain Administrator that
confirms a proposed development, new construction, alteration, or substantial
improvement in the regulated flood hazard area is designed to comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
electrical, plumbing, HVAC systems, structures and their contents. The term
includes wet floodproofing, dry floodproofing, and elevation of structures.
   FLOODWAY. The identified portion of the floodplain of the regulated flood
hazard area that is the channel and the area adjoining the channel that is
reasonably required to carry the discharge of the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface by more than one-half foot.
(M.C.A. § 76-5-103(5) and 76-5-103(11))
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official response from FEMA that amends or
revises the FEMA special flood hazard area and FEMA flood insurance study for
flood insurance purposes and/or flood risk hazard. FEMA LETTERS OF MAP CHANGE
specific to an amendment or revision include the following.
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (CLOMA). A FEMA letter of
approval for a proposed physical change that, when completed, would propose to
change the flood zones, delineations, or elevations on the FEMA flood insurance
rate map or FEMA flood boundary map and may amend the FEMA flood insurance
study through a subsequent LOMR. The CLOMR may be considered in an evaluation
by DNRC and the Floodplain Administrator during the consideration of a proposed
alteration to the regulated flood hazard area.
      (2)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A FEMA letter of
approval for a proposed physical change that, when completed, would propose to
change the flood zones, delineations, or elevations on the FEMA flood insurance
rate map or FEMA flood boundary map and may amend the FEMA flood insurance
study through a subsequent LOMR. The CLOMR may be considered in an evaluation
by DNRC and the Floodplain Administrator during the consideration of a proposed
alteration to the regulated flood hazard area.
      (3)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION - BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). A
FEMA letter of approval for a proposed physical change that, when completed,
would propose to change the flood zones, delineations, or elevations on the
FEMA flood insurance rate map or FEMA flood boundary map and may amend the FEMA
flood insurance study through a subsequent LOMR. The CLOMR may be considered in
an evaluation by DNRC and the Floodplain Administrator during the consideration
of a proposed alteration to the regulated flood hazard area.
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A letter of determination from FEMA
issued in response to a request that a property or structure is not subject to
the mandatory flood insurance requirement because it was inadvertently located
in the effective FEMA special flood hazard area. The material submitted and
response from FEMA may be considered by the Floodplain Administrator for
determining if a property or structure is within the regulated flood hazard
area and subject to these regulations.
      (5)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT FLOODWAY (LOMR-FW). A letter of
determination from FEMA issued in response to a request that a property or
structure mapped as being within the floodway is not subject to the mandatory
flood insurance requirement because it was inadvertently located in the
effective FEMA special flood hazard area.
      (6)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official FEMA amendment to the
currently effective FEMA flood insurance rate map or FEMA flood boundary map
based on a physical change to the floodplain of the special flood hazard area.
It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations, and elevations on
the FEMA flood insurance rate map or FEMA flood boundary map and may amend the
FEMA flood insurance study. It must be preceded by an approved alteration of
the designated floodplain from DNRC and, subsequently, an amendment to the
regulated flood hazard area.
      (7)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A letter of
approval from FEMA removing the mandatory requirement for flood insurance on
property based on placement of fill or an addition. Placement of fill or an
addition must be preceded by a permit pursuant to these regulations. Placement
of fill does not remove the development from the regulated flood hazard area or
these regulations.
    LOWEST FLOOR. Any unfinished or finished floor of a building which may
include a basement or crawlspace.
(ARM § 36.15.101(14))
   MAINTENANCE. Any routine or regularly scheduled activity undertaken to
repair or prevent the deterioration, impairment, or failure of any feature,
component, or material referenced in these regulations so long as the work
substantially conforms to the most recent approved design or regulatory
hydraulic model, whichever is newer. MAINTENANCE does not include expansion,
enlargement, replacement, reconstruction, substantial modification, or
substantial improvement of a building, artificial obstruction, or structure,
including hydraulic structures. MAINTENANCE does not include changing the use
of a property or artificial obstruction.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Includes the construction of
facilities for servicing the manufactured home lots and, at a minimum, includes
the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME. A building that may be residential or
nonresidential, is transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent
chassis, and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes park trailers, travel
trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days.
(ARM § 36.15.101(15))
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the commencement of clearing,
grading, filling, or excavating to prepare a site for construction occurs on or
after the effective date of these regulations, and includes any replacements
and subsequent improvements to such structures.
(ARM § 36.15.101(20))
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed includes, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and is completed on or after the
effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Development, use, or improvements that were lawful prior
to the adoption, revision, or amendment to these regulations, but that fails by
reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present
requirements of these regulations.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Buildings including manufactured homes that are not
residential including commercial, agricultural, industrial buildings, and
accessory buildings. See RESIDENTIAL.
   OWNER. Any person who has dominion over, control of, or title to an
artificial obstruction. (M.C.A. § 76-5-103(13))
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A park trailer, travel trailer, or other similar
vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four-hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a motorized
vehicle; and
      (4)   Designed primarily for use as temporary living quarters for
recreation, camping, travel, or seasonal use, not for use as a permanent
dwelling.
   REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A floodplain whose limits have been designated
pursuant to of M.C.A. Title 76, Chapter 5, part 2, and is determined to be the
area adjoining the watercourse that would be covered by the floodwater of a
base flood. The REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA consists of the floodway and flood
fringe where specifically designated.
(ARM § 36-15-101(11)) (M.C.A. § 76-5-103(4) and 76-5-103(10))
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A dwelling or building for living purposes, or place
of assembly, or permanent use by human beings and including any mixed use of
residential and nonresidential use. All other buildings are nonresidential.
   RIPRAP. Stone, rocks, concrete blocks, or analogous materials that are
placed along the bed or banks of a watercourse or drain way for the purpose of
preventing or alleviating erosion.
(ARM § 36.15.101(18))
   SCOUR DEPTH. The maximum depth of streambed scour caused by erosive forces
of the base flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Land area which has been specifically identified
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is useful
for the purposes of identifying flood hazards by local subdivisions of
government for regulatory purposes as well as use by the National Flood
Insurance Program for establishing risk zones and is used in helping to
establish flood insurance premium rates. The FEMA flood hazard area zone
designation or flood risk potential is as illustrated on FEMA’s flood hazard
boundary map or flood insurance rate map.
      (1)   SHADED ZONE X. Areas of 0.2% annual chance flood; areas of 1%
annual chance flood with average depths of less than one foot or with drainage
areas less than one square mile; and areas protected by levees from 1% annual
chance flood.
      (2)   ZONE A. No base flood elevations determined.
      (3)   ZONE A99. Area to be protected from 1% annual chance flood by a
federal flood protection system under construction. No BEFs determined.
      (4)   ZONE AE. Base flood elevations determined.
      (5)   ZONE AH. Flood depths of one to three feet (example areas of
ponding); BFE determined.
      (6)   ZONE AO. Flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on
sloping terrain); average depths determined. For areas of alluvial fan
flooding, velocities also determined.
      (7)   ZONE C. See ZONE X.
      (8)   ZONE D. Areas in which flood hazards are undetermined, but
possible.
      (9)   ZONE X. Areas determined to be outside the 0.2% annual chance
floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The start of any substantial improvement, replacement
of existing structure, or new construction, or the commencement of clearing,
grading, filling, or excavation for the purposes of preparing a site for
construction.
   STRUCTURE. Any artificial obstruction.
   SUBGRADE CRAWLSPACE. A crawlspace foundation enclosure that has the lowest
interior floor elevation no more than five feet below the top of the next
higher floor and no more than two feet below the lowest adjacent grade, proper
flood openings, and constructed with flood-resistant materials. A foundation
exceeding either dimension or lacking proper flood openings and not constructed
with flood- resistant materials could be considered a basement.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either before the start of
construction of the improvement, including substantial damage structures
regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (1)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
construction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences.
      (2)   For the purpose of SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, the actual start of
construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimension of the building.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or state inventory of historic places provided that the
property owner(s) submits evidence to the Floodplain Administrator, for review
and approval, that they have done as much as they can to mitigate the flood
risk and bring the structure into compliance to the maximum extent possible
while maintaining the historic nature and determination of the structure.
(ARM § 36.15.101(21))
   SUITABLE FILL. Fill material which is stable, compacted, well graded, and
pervious, not adversely affected by water and frost, devoid of trash or similar
foreign matter, tree stumps or other organic material; and is fitting for the
purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent structure. (ARM §
36.15.101(22))
   VARIANCE. A grant or relief from the development requirements of these
regulations which would permit construction in a manner that would be otherwise
prohibited by these regulations.
(ARM § 36.15.101(23))
   VIOLATION. A finding and order pursuant to the regulations against the owner
or responsible party of the failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 59.1
§ 152.020 CODES; IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS.
   Flood insurance rate maps (FIRM):
   (A)   Community identification number (CID): 300126;
   (B)   Hydrologic unit code (HUC-8): 10020003; and
   (C)   FIRM panel numbers: 30057C0879F, 30057C0883F.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
**** FORMS AND FEES; FLOODPLAIN PERMITS ****
§ 152.035 TYPES OF FORMS.
   The following forms may be required by the Floodplain Administrator:
   (A)   Floodplain permit application form. The “Joint Application for
Proposed Work in Montana’s Streams, Wetlands, Regulated Flood Hazard Areas, and
Other Water Bodies”, or other designated application form. A completed FEMA MT-
1 form may be required to accompany the application when required by the
Floodplain Administrator;
   (B)   Floodplain permit compliance report. A report required to be submitted
by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator once the permitted project in
the regulated flood hazard area is completed or within the designated time
stipulated on the floodplain permit. A compliance report including an elevation
and or floodproofing certificate may be required where specified for the
purpose of documenting compliance with the requirements of the permit;
   (C)   Floodplain variance application form. An application submitted by the
applicant to the Floodplain Administrator to initiate a proposed variance from
the requirements of these regulations as described in §§
152.125 through
152.128;
   (D)   Floodplain appeal notice form. A form submitted by the applicant or an
aggrieved party to initiate the appeal process described in §§
152.140 through
152.142;
   (E)   Floodplain emergency notification form. A written notification form
required pursuant to §
152.017 of these regulations; and
   (F)   Official complaint form. A form that may be used by any person to
notify the Floodplain Administrator of an activity taking place that appears to
be noncompliant with the requirements of these regulations.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.036 FEES.
   A reasonable application fee for the processing of permit applications may
be imposed. Fees have been adopted for costs of permit applications, notices,
variances, inspections, certifications, and other administrative actions
required by these regulations and can be found on the town’s planning fee
schedule.
(ARM § 36.15.204(3)(b)) (Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.037 USES REQUIRING FLOODPLAIN PERMITS.
   (A)   A floodplain permit is required for a person to establish, alter, or
substantially improve an artificial obstruction, nonconforming use, or
development within the regulated flood hazard area.
(ARM § 36.15.204(2)(a))
   (B)   A floodplain permit is required for artificial obstructions,
developments, and uses not specifically listed in §§
152.085 through
152.099 and §§
152.110 through
152.113, except as allowed without a floodplain permit in §§
152.070 and
152.071 or as prohibited as specified in §§
152.072 and
152.073, within the regulated flood hazard area.
   (C)   Artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses in a regulated flood
hazard area not exempt under §§
152.070 and
152.071 are public nuisances unless a floodplain permit has been obtained.
   (D)   A floodplain permit is required for an alteration of an existing
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use that increases the external size or
increases its potential flood hazard and not exempt under §§
152.070 and
152.071.
(ARM § 36.15.204(2)(a))
   (E)   A floodplain permit is required to reconstruct or repair an existing
artificial obstruction that has experienced substantial damage and will undergo
substantial improvement.
   (F)   Maintenance of an existing artificial obstruction or use that is a
substantial improvement or an alteration requires a floodplain permit.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.1
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-404, 76-5-404(1), and 76-5-404(3)(b)
§ 152.038 PERMIT APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   A floodplain permit application shall include but is not limited to the
following:
   (A)   A completed and signed floodplain permit application;
   (B)   The required review fee;
   (C)   Plans in duplicate, drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of the proposed project including landscape alterations, existing
and proposed structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to the
regulated flood hazard areas and, if applicable, the floodway boundary;
(ARM § 36.15.216))
   (D)   A copy of other applicable permits or pending applications required by
federal or state law as submitted, which may include but are not limited to: a
310 permit, SPA 124 permit, Section 404 permit, 318 authorization, 401
certification, or a navigable rivers land-use license or easement for the
proposed project; and the applicant must show that the floodplain permit
application is not in conflict with the relevant and applicable permits; and
   (E)   Additional information related to the specific use or activity that
demonstrates the design criteria and construction standards are met or exceeded
as specified in §§
152.085 through
152.099 and §§
152.110 through
152.113.
(ARM § 36.15.216)
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(2)
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-405
§ 152.039 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review and evaluate the floodplain
permit application and shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
application within 60 days (or an otherwise specified timeline) of receipt of a
correct and complete application.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall determine whether the floodplain
permit application contains the applicable elements required in these
regulations and shall notify the applicant of the Floodplain Administrator’s
determination.
   (C)   If the floodplain permit application is found to be missing the
required elements, and if the applicant corrects the identified deficiencies
and resubmits the floodplain application, the Floodplain Administrator shall
notify the applicant whether the resubmitted floodplain application contains
all the elements required by these regulations, as applicable.
   (D)   This process shall be repeated until the applicant submits a completed
floodplain permit application containing all the elements required by these
regulations or the application is withdrawn.
   (E)   (1)   If after a reasonable effort the Floodplain Administrator
determines that the floodplain application remains incomplete, the Floodplain
Administrator shall deny the floodplain permit application and notify the
applicant of missing elements.
      (2)   No further action shall be taken on the floodplain permit
application by the Floodplain Administrator until the floodplain permit
application is resubmitted.
   (F)   A determination that a floodplain permit application is correct and
complete for review does not ensure that the floodplain permit application will
be approved or conditionally approved and does not limit the ability of the
Floodplain Administrator to request additional information during the review
process.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-405(2)
§ 152.040 APPLICATION NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a complete application for a floodplain permit, the
Floodplain Administrator shall prepare a notice containing the facts pertinent
to the floodplain permit application and shall:
      (1)   Publish the notice at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area;
(ARM § 36.15.204(2)(c))
      (2)   Serve notice by first-class mail upon adjacent property owners;
(ARM § 36.15.204(2)(c))
      (3)   Serve notice to the State National Flood Insurance Program
Coordinator located in DNRC by the most efficient method. Notice to other
permitting agencies or other impacted property owners may be provided; and
      (4)   Prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse in the
regulated flood hazard area, additionally provide notice to FEMA and adjacent
communities.
   (B)   The notice shall provide a reasonable period of time, not less than 15
days, for interested parties to submit comments on the proposed activity.
(ARM § 36.15.204(2)(c))
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(6)
§ 152.041 PERMIT CRITERIA.
   (A)   Floodplain permit applications shall be approved provided the proposed
new construction, substantial improvement, or alteration of an artificial
obstruction meets the requirements of the minimum standards and criteria in §§
152.085 through
152.099, and §§
152.110 through
152.113, and other requirements of these regulations.
   (B)   A floodplain permit application for a development that will cause an
increase of more than zero feet to the base flood elevation of the floodway or
more than one-half foot to the base flood elevation of the regulated flood
hazard area without a floodway shall not be approved until approval for an
alteration pursuant to §
152.057 has been approved, the regulated flood hazard area is amended, and a
FEMA CLOMR (where required) is issued.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall determine that all necessary
permits have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval
is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendment of 1972, 36 U.S.C. § 1334.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3 and 60.3(a)(2)
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-406
§ 152.042 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall approve, conditionally approve, or
deny the proposed floodplain permit application. The Floodplain Administrator
shall notify the applicant of his or her action and the reasons thereof within
60 days (or an otherwise specified timeline) of receipt of a correct and
complete floodplain permit application unless otherwise specified. A copy of
the approved floodplain permit must be provided to DNRC.
(ARM § 36.15.204(2)(e))
   (B)   The approval of a floodplain permit application does not affect any
other type of approval required by any other statute or ordinance of the state,
or any political subdivision, or the United States, but is an added
requirement.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. §§ 76-5-108 and 76-5-405(2)
§ 152.043 CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS UPON APPROVAL.
   Upon approval or conditional approval of the floodplain permit application,
the Floodplain Administrator shall provide the applicant with a floodplain
permit with applicable, specific requirements and conditions including but not
limited to the following:
   (A)   The floodplain permit will become valid when all other necessary
permits required by federal or state law are in place;
   (B)   Completion of the development pursuant to the floodplain permit shall
be completed within one year from the date of floodplain permit issuance or a
time limit commensurate with the project construction timeline for completion
of the project or development. The applicant may request an extension for up to
an additional year. The request must be made at least 30 days prior to the
permitted completion deadline;
   (C)   The applicant shall notify subsequent property owners and their agents
and potential buyers of the floodplain development permit issued on the
property and that such property is located within a regulated flood hazard area
and shall record the notice with the Floodplain Administrator;
(ARM § 36.15.204(2)(g))
   (D)   The applicant shall maintain the artificial obstruction or use to
comply with the conditions and specifications of the permit;
   (E)   The applicant shall allow the Floodplain Administrator to perform on-
site inspections at select intervals during construction or completion;
   (F)   The applicant shall provide periodic engineering oversight and/or
interim reports during the construction period to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to confirm constructed elevations and other project
elements;
   (G)   The applicant shall submit a compliance report including
certifications where required and applicable including floodproofing,
elevation, surface drainage, proper enclosure openings, and materials to the
Floodplain Administrator within 30 days of completion or other time as
specified;
   (H)   The applicant shall submit an annual performance and maintenance
report on bank stabilization or other projects utilizing maturing vegetative
components to the Floodplain Administrator for a period of five years or a time
specified in the permit; or
   (I)   The applicant shall submit evidence of a submittal of a FEMA letter of
map revision (LOMR) to FEMA and applicable fees within six months of project
completion and proceed with due diligence for acceptance of the document and
necessary supporting materials by FEMA.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. §§ 60.3(a)(2) and 65.3
§ 152.044 ADDITIONAL REVIEWS.
   (A)   (1)   While the majority of major rivers, streams, and creeks within
the town have been mapped and are included in the regulatory special flood
hazard area, there are some areas where the mapped regulatory flood hazard area
ends but the river, stream, or creek continues.
      (2)   These areas, although not included within the jurisdictional
boundary of these regulations, may logically benefit from a review of any
proposed projects that may have similar impacts to floodplain development.
   (B)   In these situations, the Floodplain Administrator may determine that
both an administrative and technical review, and resulting recommendations, may
be beneficial although a permit or decision may not apply.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
**** REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREAS; BOUNDARIES ****
§ 152.055 REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   (1)   The regulated flood hazard areas are the floodplains of the 100-
year floodplain, illustrated and referenced in the FEMA flood insurance study
(FIS) for the county, state, and incorporated areas (including the town),
effective December 20, 2024, and the flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) for the
town, also dated December 20, 2024, and §
152.020.
      (2)   The regulated flood hazard areas specifically described in division
(A)(1) above have been delineated, designated, and established pursuant to
M.C.A. §§ 76-5-201 et seq.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator may obtain, review, and reasonably use
any base flood elevation or floodway data available from a federal, state, or
other reliable source to administer and enforce these regulations. However,
when special flood hazard area designations and water surface elevations have
been furnished by the Federal Insurance Administrator, the more restrictive
shall apply.
   (C)   Sections
152.070 through
152.073,
152.085 through
152.099, and
152.110 through
152.113 establish allowable uses and requirements for projects depending on the
specific location within the regulated flood hazard area (e.g., floodway, flood
fringe, and the like).
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.056 INTERPRETATION OF REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The mapped boundaries of the floodplain illustrated in the referenced
studies and maps in this subchapter are a guide for determining whether
property is within the regulated flood hazard area. Base flood elevations and
other supporting documentation in the flood study, if such documentation
exists, takes precedence over any map illustrations. Requirements for
determining the exact boundaries of the regulated flood hazard area and
floodway are provided below.
   (B)   The regulated flood hazard area boundary is delineated by the base
flood elevation. The physical regulatory boundary of the regulated flood hazard
area is the actual intersection of the applicable study base flood elevation
with the existing adjacent terrain of the watercourse or drain way.
(ARM § 36.15.501(6))
   (C)   The floodway boundary, where identified within the regulatory flood
hazard area, is as illustrated on the referenced maps and studies. The location
of the floodway boundary may be physically located by referencing the study
data to a ground feature. The Floodplain Administrator’s interpretation of the
boundary and decision may be appealed as set forth in §§
152.140 through
152.142.
   (D)   (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may require an applicant to provide
additional information described in divisions (D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b) below to
determine whether or not the proposed development, use, or artificial
obstruction is within the regulated flood hazard area.
         (a)   Where base flood elevations exist, the property owner and/or
applicant may provide additional information which may include elevation
information provided by an engineer or land surveyor in order to determine if
the proposed development, use, or artificial obstruction is subject to these
regulations.
(ARM § 36.15.501(6))
         (b)   Where base flood elevations do not exist, the property owner
and/or applicant may provide additional information to be considered to
determine the location of the regulatory boundary or alternatively provide a
computed base flood elevation provided by an engineer.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator’s interpretation of the boundaries and
decision may be appealed as set forth in §§
152.140 through
152.142.
   (E)   Any owner or lessee of property who believes his or her property has
been inadvertently included in the regulated flood hazard area including the
floodway or flood fringe may submit scientific and/or technical information to
FEMA in the form of an application for a letter of map change. Scientific or
technical information submitted to FEMA for insurance purposes may be
considered by the Floodplain Administrator, although a determination by the
Floodplain Administrator whether a property is located within the regulated
flood hazard area and subject to these regulations is independent of any
determination made by FEMA.
   (F)   When property located within the regulated flood hazard area is
naturally above the base flood elevation as proven by a certified elevation
survey provided by an engineer or land surveyor, the property owner may submit
a letter of map amendment (LOMA) to FEMA in order to affect the flood risk
designation for insurance purposes.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.057 ALTERATION OF REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The regulated flood hazard area may be altered pursuant to M.C.A. §§
76-5-201 et seq. and the requirements of these regulations. Alterations to FEMA
studies and maps can only be approved by FEMA through the letter of map change
(LOMC) process.
   (B)   Any change to the regulated flood hazard area shall only become
effective upon amendment to §
152.055(A).
   (C)   Substantial physical changes or new technical or scientific flood data
showing that the base flood elevation has or may be changed or was erroneously
established shall be brought to the attention of DNRC and FEMA.
(ARM § 36.15.505(1)(a))
   (D)   Any floodplain permit application for a proposed development or
artificial obstruction that will result in an increase of one-half foot or more
to the base flood elevation of a regulated flood hazard area without a
floodway, or an increase of more than zero feet to the base flood elevation of
a floodway, shall not be approved by the Floodplain Administrator until a
conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) is approved by FEMA:
      (1)   Certification that no buildings are located in the areas which
would be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
      (2)   Evidence of notice to all property and landowners of the proposed
impacts to their properties explaining the proposed impact on their property;
      (3)   Information that demonstrates that alternatives are not feasible;
      (4)   The Floodplain Administrator may represent the permit authority for
any necessary applications, approvals, or endorsements, such as the FEMA
community acknowledgment form to FEMA where affecting the FEMA special flood
hazard area; and
      (5)   Any other supporting information and data as needed for approvals.
(ARM § 36.15.505)
   (E)   The regulated flood hazard area is not officially altered until a
letter of map revision (LOMR) has been approved by FEMA.
   (F)   For regulated flood hazard areas not designated by FEMA, alterations
of the regulated flood hazard area shall meet ARM § 36.15.505.
   (G)   A determination by the Floodplain Administrator that land areas
located within the regulated flood hazard area are naturally above the base
flood elevation as proven by a certified elevation survey does not constitute
or require an alteration of the regulated flood hazard area and may be
maintained as a public record that more explicitly defines the regulated flood
hazard area boundary.
(ARM § 36.15.505(2))
   (H)   The material submitted and response from FEMA may be considered by the
Floodplain Administrator for determining if a property or structure is within
the regulated flood hazard area and subject to these regulations.
   (I)   Elevating with suitable fill as permitted does not alter the regulated
flood hazard area or remove the elevated area from the regulated flood hazard
area.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
    Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. §§ 60.3(c)(10), 60.3(d)(3), 65.12, 65.12
(2), 65.12(a)(3), 65.12(a)(5), 65.3, and 65.7(3)
**** USES, ACTIVITIES, AND STRUCTURES ****
§ 152.070 EXISTING OBSTRUCTIONS AND NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Within the regulated flood hazard area established by these
regulations, there are existing artificial obstructions and uses that were
lawful prior to the adoption or amendment of these regulations, but no longer
conform to the present requirements of these regulations.
   (B)   It is the intent of these regulations to allow such artificial
obstructions and nonconforming uses to remain in the state and location to
which they existed at the time of adoption or amendment of these regulations
without need for a permit. However, alteration or substantial improvement of an
existing artificial obstruction or nonconforming use requires a floodplain
permit.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.071 OPEN SPACES.
   The following open-space uses shall be allowed without a permit in the
regulated flood hazard area, provided that such uses are not prohibited by any
other regulation or statute; do not require structures; do not require a no-
rise if in the floodway; and do not require fill, grading, excavation, or
storage of materials or equipment:
(ARM §§ 36.15.601 and 36.15.701(1))
   (A)   Agricultural uses (not including related structures) such as tilling,
farming, irrigation, ranching, harvesting, grazing, and the like;
(ARM § 36.15.601(1)(a))
   (B)   Accessory uses (not including structures) such as loading and parking
areas or emergency landing strips associated with industrial or commercial
facilities;
(ARM § 36.15.601(1)(b))
   (C)   Forestry, including processing of forest products with portable
equipment;
(ARM § 36.15.601(1)(d))
   (D)   Recreational-vehicle use provided that the vehicle is on the site for
fewer than 180 consecutive days and the vehicle is fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system with wheels intact, is attached to the site only by
quick-disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions;
   (E)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas;
(ARM § 36.15.601(1)(e))
   (F)   Routine or regularly scheduled maintenance of the existing state of
existing open-space uses including preventive maintenance activities such as
bridge deck rehabilitation and roadway pavement preservation activities, if not
in the regulatory floodway. Maintenance cannot increase the external size or
increase the hazard potential of the existing open-space use;
   (G)   Public or private recreational uses not requiring structures such as
picnic grounds, swimming areas, boat ramps, parks, campgrounds, golf courses,
driving ranges, archery ranges, wildlife management and natural areas,
alternative livestock ranches (game farms), fish hatcheries, shooting
preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and
hiking and horseback riding trails;
(ARM § 36.15.601(a)(c))
   (H)   Fences that have a low impact to the flow of water such as barbed wire
fences and wood rail fences, and not including permanent fences crossing
channels. Fences that have the potential to stop or impede flow or debris such
as a chain link or privacy fence requires a floodplain permit and meet the
requirements of §
152.095;
(ARM § 36.15.601(2)(b))
   (I)   Addition of highway guardrails, signing, and utility poles that have a
low impact to the flow of water along an existing roadway if not located within
a regulatory floodway; and/or
   (J)   Irrigation and livestock supply wells, provided that they are located
at least 500 feet from domestic water supply wells and with the top of casing
18 inches above the base flood elevation.
(ARM §§ 36.15.601(2)(a) and 36.21.647)
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(14)
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. §§ 76-5-401, 76-5-401(1), 76-5-401(2), 76-5-
401(4), 76-5-401(5), 76-5-404(3), and 76-5-404(3)(b)
§ 152.072 PROHIBITED USES/STRUCTURES IN FLOODWAYS.
   The following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses are prohibited
in the floodway of the regulated flood hazard area, except for those
established before land-use regulations pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-5-301 have been
adopted:
   (A)   A building for residential or nonresidential purposes;
(ARM § 36.15.605(1)(a), 36.15.605(2)(a), and 36.15.605(2)(b))
   (B)   An artificial obstruction (e.g., structure, fill, and the like) or
excavation that would cause water to be diverted from the floodway, cause
erosion, obstruct the natural flow of waters, or reduce the carrying capacity
of the floodway. Notwithstanding these requirements, excavation or fill may be
allowed subject to floodplain permit approval when it is a component to a
permitted use allowed in these regulations and complies with all applicable
requirements of these regulations;
   (C)   The construction or storage of an object (artificial obstruction)
subject to flotation or movement during flood-level periods;
(ARM § 36.15.605(1)(c))
   (D)   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and individual and multiple-family
sewage disposal systems unless the systems meet the local health and sanitation
regulations, and when permitted pursuant to these regulations, and are designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters and avoid impairment or
contamination;
(ARM § 36.15.605(2c))
   (E)   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous, or explosive materials; and
(ARM § 36.15.605(2d))
   (F)   Cemeteries, mausoleums, or any other burial grounds.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(3)
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. §§ 76-5-403(1) through 76-5-403(3) and 76-5-
404(3)
§ 152.073 PROHIBITED USES/STRUCTURES IN FRINGE/NON-FLOODWAY AREAS.
   The following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses are prohibited
in the flood fringe or regulated flood hazard area without a floodway, except
for those established before land-use regulations have been adopted:
   (A)   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and individual and multiple-family
sewage disposal systems unless the systems meet the local health and sanitation
regulations, and when permitted pursuant to these regulations, and are designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters and avoid impairment or
contamination;
(ARM § 36.15.703(1))
   (B)   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous, or explosive materials;
(ARM § 36.15.703(2))
   (C)   The construction or storage of an artificial obstruction subject to
flotation or movement during flood-level periods;
   (D)   Cemeteries, mausoleums, or any other burial grounds; and
   (E)   Critical facilities, including buildings and associated structures
that provide essential community care and emergency operation functions such as
schools, hospitals, nursing home facilities, fire stations, and police
stations.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. §§ 60.22(a)(2) and 60.3(a)(3)
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-404(3)
**** FLOODWAY DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 152.085 USES REQUIRING PERMITS.
   Artificial obstructions, including alterations and substantial improvements
specifically listed in §§
152.087 through
152.099, may be allowed by permit within the floodway provided the general
requirements in §
152.086 and the applicable requirements in §§
152.087 through
152.099 are met.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.086 PROJECT/APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONSIDERATIONS.
   An application for a permit shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   All projects shall be designed and constructed to ensure that they do
not adversely affect the flood hazard on other properties and are reasonably
safe from flooding.
   (B)   All projects shall assure that the carrying capacity of the floodway
is not reduced. All projects in the floodway shall meet the following:
      (1)   Demonstrate that the project does not increase the base flood
elevation by conducting an encroachment analysis certified by an engineer. A
minimal or qualitative encroachment analysis may be accepted when the project
or development does not require a structure; alteration of the floodway; and/or
involve fill, grading, excavation, or storage of materials or equipment; but is
also certified by an engineer to not exceed the allowable encroachment to the
base flood elevation; and
      (2)   The allowable encroachment to the base flood elevation is zero
feet, and no significant increase to the velocity or flow of the stream or
watercourse, unless approval of an alteration of the regulated flood hazard
area pursuant to §
152.057 and an approved FEMA conditional letter of map revision occurs before
permit issuance.
(ARM §§ 36.15.505, 36.15.604, and 36.15.605(b))
   (C)   An application for a floodplain permit must also demonstrate that the
following factors are considered and incorporated into the design of the use or
artificial obstruction in the floodway:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to backwater or diverted flow
caused by the obstruction or use;
(ARM § 36.15.216(2)(a))
      (2)   The danger that the obstruction or use may be swept downstream to
the injury of others;
(ARM § 36.15.216(2)(b))
      (3)   The availability of alternative locations;
(ARM § 36.15.216(2)(c))
      (4)   Construct or alter the obstruction or use in such manner as to
lessen the flooding danger;
(ARM § 36.15.216(2)(d))
      (5)   The permanence of the obstruction or use and is reasonably safe
from flooding;
(ARM § 36.15.216(2)(e))
      (6)   The anticipated development in the foreseeable future of the area
which may be affected by the obstruction or use;
(ARM § 36.15.216(2)(f))
      (7)   Relevant and related permits for the project have been obtained;
      (8)   Such other factors as are in harmony with the purposes of these
regulations, the State Floodplain and Floodway Management Act, and the
accompanying Administrative Rules of Montana; and
(ARM § 36.15.216(2)(g))
      (9)   The safety of access to property in times of flooding for ordinary
and emergency services.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. §§ 60.22(c)(7), 60.3(a)(2), 60.3(a)(3-4),
and 65.12(a)
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-406(1) through 76-5-406(7)
§ 152.087 MINING REQUIRING EXCAVATION FROM PITS/POOLS.
   Mining of material requiring excavation from pits or pools may be permitted
provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.086, that:
   (A)   A buffer strip of undisturbed land of sufficient width as determined
by an engineer to prevent flood flows from channeling into the excavation is
left between the edge of the channel and the edge of the excavation;
(ARM § 36.15.602(1)(a))
   (B)   The excavation meets all applicable laws and regulations of other
local and state agencies; and (ARM § 36.15.602(1)(b))
   (C)   Excavated material may be processed on-site but is stockpiled outside
the floodway.
(ARM § 36.15.602(1)(c))
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.088 RAILROAD, HIGH, AND STREET STREAM CROSSINGS.
   Railroad, highway and street, and other transportation-related stream
crossings may be permitted provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.086, that:
   (A)   Crossings are designed to offer minimal obstructions to the flood
flow;
(ARM § 36.15.602(2))
   (B)   Where failure or interruption of public transportation facilities
would result in danger to public health or safety, and where practicable and in
consideration of FHWA Federal-Aid Policy Guide, 23 C.F.R. part 650A:
      (1)   Bridge lower chords shall have freeboard to at least two feet above
the base flood elevation to help pass ice flows, the base flood discharge, and
any debris associated with the discharge; and
      (2)   Culverts shall be designed to pass the base flood discharge and
maintain at least two-feet freeboard on the crossing surface;
   (C)   Normal overflow channels, if possible, are preserved to allow passage
of sediments to prevent aggradations; and
   (D)   Midstream supports for bridges, if necessary, have footings buried
below the maximum scour depth.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.089 LIMITED FILLING FOR ROAD AND RAILROAD EMBANKMENTS.
   Limited filling for road and railroad embankments, including other
transportation-related embankments not associated with stream crossings and
bridges, may be permitted provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.086, that:
   (A)   The fill is suitable fill;
   (B)   Reasonable alternate transportation routes outside the floodway are
not available; and
(ARM § 36.15.602(3))
   (C)   The encroachment is located as far from the stream channel as
possible.
(ARM § 36.15.602(3))
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.090 BURIED OR SUSPENDED UTILITY TRANSMISSION LINES.
   Buried or suspended utility transmission lines may be permitted provided, in
addition to the requirements of §
152.086, that:
   (A)   Suspended utility transmission lines are designed such that the lowest
point of the suspended line is at least six feet higher than the base flood
elevation;
(ARM § 36.15.602(4))
   (B)   Towers and other appurtenant structures are designed and placed to
withstand and offer minimal obstruction to flood flows;
(ARM § 36.15.602(4))
   (C)   Alternatives such as alternative routes, directional drilling, and
aerial crossings are considered when technically feasible; and
   (D)   Utility transmission lines carrying toxic or flammable materials are
buried to a depth of at least twice the calculated maximum scour depth
determined by an engineer for the base flood.
(ARM § 36.15.602(4))
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.091 MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT STORAGE.
   Storage of materials and equipment may be permitted provided, in addition to
the requirements of §
152.086, that:
   (A)   The material or equipment is not subject to major damage by flooding
and is properly anchored to prevent flotation or downstream movement; or
(ARM § 36.15.602(5)(a))
   (B)   The material or equipment is readily removable within the limited time
available after flood warnings. Storage of flammable, toxic, or explosive
materials shall not be permitted.
(ARM § 36.15.602(5)(b))
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.092 DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY WELLS.
   Domestic water supply wells may be permitted provided, in addition to the
requirements of §
152.086, that:
   (A)   They are driven or drilled wells located on ground higher than
surrounding ground to assure positive drainage from the well;
   (B)   They require no other structures (e.g., a well house);
   (C)   Well casings are watertight to a distance of at least 25 feet below
the ground surface, and the well-casing height is a minimum of two feet above
the base flood elevation or capped with a watertight seal and vented two feet
above the base flood elevation;
   (D)   Water supply lines have a watertight seal where the lines enter the
casing;
   (E)   All pumps, electrical lines, and equipment are either of the
submersible type or are adequately floodproofed; and
   (F)   Check valves are installed on main water lines at wells and at all
building entry locations.
(ARM § 36.15.602(6)) (Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(5)
§ 152.093 BURIED/SEALED SEWAGE VAULTS.
   Buried and sealed vaults for sewage disposal in campgrounds and recreational
areas may be permitted provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.086, demonstrate approval by the State Department of Environmental Quality
and local health and sanitation permits or approvals.
(ARM § 36.15.602(7)) (Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(6)
§ 152.094 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE CAMPGROUNDS.
   Public and private campgrounds may be permitted provided, in addition to the
requirements of §
152.086, that:
   (A)   Access roads require only limited fill and do not obstruct or divert
floodwaters;
(ARM § 36.15.602(8))
   (B)   The project meets the accessory-structure requirements in §
152.095;
   (C)   No dwellings or permanent mobile homes are allowed;
(ARM § 36.15.602(8))
   (D)   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are ready for highway use
with wheels intact, with only quick-disconnect type utilities and securing
devices, and have no permanently attached additions;
   (E)   There is no large-scale clearing of riparian vegetation within 50 feet
of the mean annual high- water mark; and
   (F)   Campgrounds subject to subdivision review are in full compliance with
the county’s subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(14)
§ 152.095 ACCESSORY/APPURTENANT STRUCTURES.
   Accessory or appurtenant structures to permitted uses; such as boat docks,
loading and parking areas, marinas, sheds, airstrips, permanent fences crossing
channels that may impede or stop flows or debris, and picnic shelters and
tables and lavatories; that are incidental to a principal structure or use may
be permitted provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.086, that:
   (A)   The structures are not intended for human habitation or supportive of
human habitation;
(ARM § 36.15.602(9))
   (B)   The structures will have low flood damage potential;
(ARM § 36.15.602(9))
   (C)   The structures will, insofar as possible, be located on ground higher
than the surrounding ground and as far from the channel as possible;
(ARM § 36.15.602(9))
   (D)   The structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer a minimal
obstruction to flood flows;
(ARM § 36.15.602(9))
   (E)   Only those wastewater disposal systems that are approved under health
and sanitation regulations are allowed;
   (F)   Service facilities within these structures such as electrical,
heating, and plumbing are floodproofed according to the requirements in §§
152.110 through
152.113;
(ARM § 36.15.602(9))
   (G)   The structures are firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
(ARM § 36.15.602(9))
   (H)   The structures do not require fill and/or substantial excavation;
   (I)   The structures or use cannot be changed or altered without permit
approval;
   (J)   There is no clearing of riparian vegetation within 50 feet of the mean
annual high-water mark; and
   (K)   The structures are in compliance with any covenants and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.096 CONSTRUCTION/MODIFICATION OF SURFACE WATER DIVERSIONS.
   Construction of or modifications to surface water diversions may be
permitted provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.086, that the design is reviewed and approved by an engineer and includes:
   (A)   Measures to minimize potential erosion from a base flood;
(ARM § 36.15.603(3)(b))
   (B)   Designs and plans that demonstrate any permanent structure in the
stream is designed to safely withstand up to the base flood considering the
forces associated with hydrodynamic and hydrostatic pressures including flood
depths, velocities, impact, ice buoyancy, and uplift forces associated with the
base flood; and
(ARM § 36.15.603(3)(c))
   (C)   The project is in compliance with all other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(3) and 60.3(d)(3)
§ 152.097 FLOOD CONTROL; STREAM BANK STABILIZATION.
   Flood control and stream bank stabilization measures may be permitted
provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.086, that the design is reviewed and approved by an engineer and
constructed to substantially resist or withstand the forces associated with
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic pressures, including flood depths, velocities,
impact, ice, buoyancy, and uplift associated with the base flood. The design
must also show compliance with the following applicable criteria.
(ARM § 36.15.606)
   (A)   Levee and floodwall construction or alteration.
      (1)   Must be designed and constructed with suitable fill and be designed
to safely convey a base flood;
(ARM § 36.15.606(1)(a))
      (2)   Must be constructed at least three feet higher than the elevation
of the base flood unless the levee or floodwall protects agricultural land
only;
(ARM § 36.15.606(2)(a))
      (3)   Must meet state and federal levee engineering and construction
standards and be publicly owned and maintained if it protects structures of
more than one landowner;
(ARM § 36.15.505(1)(c)(ii-iii))
      (4)   For any increase in the elevation of the base flood, an alteration
of the regulated flood hazard area requires approvals pursuant to §
152.057; and
      (5)   All other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Stream bank stabilization; pier and abutment protection projects.
      (1)   Must be designed and constructed using methods and materials that
are the least environmentally damaging yet practicable and should be designed
to withstand a base flood once the project’s vegetative components are mature
within a period of up to five years or other time as required by the Floodplain
Administrator. Once vegetation is mature and established, it should not require
substantial yearly maintenance after the initial period;
      (2)   Materials for the project may be designed to erode over time but
not fail catastrophically and impact others. Erosion, sedimentation, and
transport of the materials may be designed to be at least similar in amount and
rate of existing stable natural stream banks during the base flood;
      (3)   Must not increase erosion upstream, downstream, or across from or
adjacent to the site in excess of the existing stable natural stream bank
during the base flood;
(ARM § 36.15.606(1)(b))
      (4)   Materials for the project may include but are not limited to
riprap, root wads, brush mattresses, willow wattles, natural woody debris, or
combinations of analogous materials; and
      (5)   All other applicable regulations.
   (C)   Channelization projects. Where the excavation and/or construction of a
channel is for the purpose of diverting the entire or a portion of the flow of
a stream from its established course, the project must:
      (1)   Not increase the magnitude, velocity, or elevation of the base
flood;
      (2)   Meet the requirements of § 9.13.2; and
(ARM §§ 36.15.101(7) and 36.15.606(1)(c))
      (3)   Be in full compliance with all other applicable regulations.
   (D)   Dams.
      (1)   The design and construction shall be in accordance with the State
Dam Safety Act and applicable safety standards;
      (2)   The project shall not increase flood hazards downstream either
through operational procedures or improper hydrologic/hydraulic design; and
(ARM § 36.15.606(1)(d))
      (3)   All other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(3) and 60.3(d)(3)
§ 152.098 STREAM AND BANK RESTORATION.
   Stream and bank restoration projects intended to reestablish the terrestrial
and aquatic attributes of a natural stream and not for protection of a
structure or development may be provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.086, that:
   (A)   The project will not increase velocity or erosion upstream,
downstream, or across from or adjacent to the site;
(ARM § 36.15.606(1)(b))
   (B)   Materials may include but are not limited to: boulders, rock cobble,
gravel, native streambed materials, root wads, brush mattresses, willow
wattles, natural woody debris, or combinations of analogous materials and that
reasonably replicates the bed and bank of the natural stream;
   (C)   Erosion, sedimentation, and transport of the materials are not more
than the amount and rate of existing natural stream banks during the base
flood;
   (D)   The project may be designed to allow vegetative materials to mature
within a period up to five years or other time as required by the Floodplain
Administrator. Once vegetation is mature and established, it should not require
substantial yearly maintenance after the initial period; and
   (E)   The project is in compliance with all other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.099 EXISTING RESIDENTIAL/NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   Any alteration or substantial improvement to an existing building must meet
the requirements of §
152.086 and the applicable requirements in §§
152.110 through
152.113 for residential or nonresidential buildings.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-404(3)(b)
**** FRINGE/NON-FLOODWAY DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 152.110 USES REQUIRING PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   All uses allowed by permit in the floodway shall also be allowed
by permit within the flood fringe or regulated flood hazard area with no
floodway.
      (2)   Such uses are subject to the requirements in §§
152.085 through
152.099, with the exception of the encroachment limit of §
152.086(B). Instead, such uses are subject to the encroachment limits of §
152.111(I).
   (B)   Except for prohibited artificial obstructions in §
152.073, all other artificial obstructions including new construction,
substantial improvements, alterations to residential and nonresidential
structures (including manufactured homes), and related suitable fill or
excavation shall be allowed by permit and are subject to the requirements in §§
152.110 through
152.113 and the general requirements of §
152.086, with the exception of the encroachment limit of §
152.086(B).
(ARM § 36.15.701(2))
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.111 PROJECT/APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONSIDERATIONS.
   An application for a floodplain permit must demonstrate or meet the
following applicable requirements.
   (A)   Base flood elevation. Where necessary to meet the appropriate
elevation requirement in these regulations, the base flood elevation(s) must be
determined by an engineer and utilized in the design and layout of the project,
demonstrating the design and construction criteria herein are met. For
regulated flood hazard areas that do not have computed and published base flood
elevations in the adopted flood hazard study referenced in §§
152.055 through
152.057, a base flood elevation must be determined or obtained from a reliable
source, utilizing appropriate engineering methods and analyses.
   (B)   Flood damage. Structures must be constructed by methods and practices
that minimize flood damage, and structures must be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   (C)   Surface drainage. Adequate surface drainage must be provided around
structures.
   (D)   Materials. Structures must be constructed with materials resistant to
flood damage.
   (E)   Artificial obstructions. Structures, excavations, or fill must not be
prohibited by any other statute, regulation, ordinance, or resolution; and must
be compatible with subdivision, zoning, and any other land-use regulations, if
any.
(ARM § 36.15.701(3)(a) and 36.15.701(3)(b))
   (F)   Anchoring. All construction and substantial improvements must be
designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (G)   Certification. Certification by an engineer, architect, land surveyor,
or other qualified person must accompany the application where required,
including for an encroachment analysis, adequacy of structural elevations, base
flood elevation determinations, floodproofing, enclosure flood openings, and
design and construction to withstand the hydrodynamic forces and hydrostatic
pressures of flood depths, velocities, impact, buoyancy, uplift forces
associated with the base flood, and surface drainage. A certification is not
intended to constitute a warranty or guarantee of performance, expressed or
implied. (ARM §§ 36.15.606(1), 36.15.702(2)(c), and 36.15.801(3)(b))
   (H)   Access. Structures must have safe access during times of flooding up
to the base flood for ordinary and emergency services, provided there are no
reasonable alternate locations for structures.
   (I)   Encroachment analysis.
      (1)   All applications in the regulated flood hazard area without a
floodway must be supported by an encroachment analysis of the proposed use and
a thorough hydrologic and hydraulic analysis except as provided in division (I)
(4) below, prepared by an engineer to demonstrate the effect of the structure
on flood flows, velocities, and the base flood elevation.
(ARM § 36.15.604)
      (2)   The maximum allowable encroachment is certified to be at or less
than one-half foot increase to the base flood elevation, unless the approval of
an alteration of the regulated flood hazard area pursuant to §§
152.055 through
152.057 and an approved FEMA conditional letter of map revision occurs before
permit issuance.
(ARM §§ 36.15.505 and 36.15.604)
      (3)   An encroachment analysis is not required for any development in the
flood fringe where an accompanying floodway has been designated within the
regulated flood hazard area.
      (4)   Although all other development standards herein this chapter apply,
a minimal or qualitative encroachment analysis may be accepted when the project
or development does not require a structure alteration of the floodplain;
involve fill, grading, excavation, or storage of materials or equipment; and
also is certified by an engineer to not exceed the allowable encroachment.
   (J)   Electrical-systems floodroofing. All electrical service materials,
equipment, and installation for uses in a regulated flood hazard area must be
certified to meet the following requirements.
      (1)   All incoming power service equipment including all metering
equipment, control centers, transformers, distribution and lighting panels, and
all other stationary equipment must be located at least two feet above the base
flood elevation.
(ARM § 36.15.901(1)(a))
      (2)   Portable and movable electrical equipment may be placed below the
base flood elevation, provided that the equipment can be disconnected by a
single plug and socket assembly of the submersible type.
(ARM § 36.15.901(1)(b))
      (3)   The main power service lines must have automatically operated
electrical disconnect equipment or manually operated electrical disconnect
equipment located at an accessible remote location outside the regulated flood
hazard area or two feet above the base flood elevation.
(ARM § 36.15.901(1)(c))
      (4)   All electrical wiring systems installed below the base flood
elevation must be suitable for continuous submergence and may not contain
fibrous components.
(ARM § 36.15.901(1)(d))
   (K)   Heating and cooling systems floodproofing. Heating and cooling systems
for uses in a regulated flood hazard area must be certified to meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   Float-operated automatic control valves must be installed so that
fuel supply is automatically shut off when floodwaters reach the floor level
where the heating and cooling systems are located.
(ARM § 36.15.902(1)(a))
      (2)   Manually operated gate valves must be installed in gas supply
lines. The gate valves must be operable from a location above the base flood
elevation.
(ARM § 36.15.902(1)(b))
      (3)   Electrical-systems floodproofing must be met.
(ARM § 36.15.902(1)(c))
      (4)   Furnaces and cooling units must be installed at least two feet
above the base flood elevation and the ductwork installed above the base flood
elevation.
   (L)   Plumbing systems floodproofing. Plumbing systems for uses in the
regulated flood hazard area must be certified to meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Sewer lines, except those to a buried and sealed vault, must have
check valves installed to prevent sewage backup into permitted structures.
(ARM § 36.15.903(1)(a))
      (2)   All toilets, stools, sinks, urinals, vaults, and drains must be
located so the lowest point of possible floodwater entry is at least two feet
above the base flood elevation.
(ARM § 36.15.903(1)(b))
   (M)   Structural fill floodproofing. Fill used to elevate structures,
including but not limited to residential and nonresidential buildings, must be
certified to meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The fill must be a minimum of one-half foot above the base flood
elevation and extend at least 15 feet beyond the structure in all directions.
      (2)   Fill material must be suitable fill that is stable, compacted, well
graded, and pervious; not adversely affected by water and frost; devoid of
trash or similar foreign matter, tree stumps, or other organic material; and is
fitting for the purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent
structure.
(ARM § 36.15.101(22))
      (3)   The fill must be compacted to minimize settlement and compacted to
95% of the maximum density. Compaction of earthen fill must be certified by an
engineer.
      (4)   No portion of the fill is allowed within the floodway.
      (5)   The fill slope must not be steeper than one-horizontal-to-one-
vertical, unless substantiating data justifying a steeper slope is provided and
adequate erosion protection is provided for fill slopes exposed to floodwaters.
   (N)   Wet floodproofing. Building designs with an enclosure below the lowest
floor must be certified to meet the following.
      (1)   Materials used for walls and floors are resistant to flooding to an
elevation two feet or more above the base flood elevation.
(ARM § 36.15.702(2)(a))
      (2)   The enclosure must be designed to equalize hydrostatic forces on
walls by allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Opening designs must
either be certified by an engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the
following:
         (a)   Automatically allow entry and exit of floodwaters through
screens, louvers, valves, and other coverings or devices;
         (b)   Have two or more openings with a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area below the lowest
floor, except if the enclosure is partially subgrade, a minimum of two openings
may be provided on a single wall; and
         (c)   Have the bottom of all openings no higher than one foot above
the higher of the exterior or interior adjacent grade or floor immediately
below the openings.
   (O)   Dry floodproofing. Building designs that do not allow internal
flooding must be certified according to these regulations to meet the
following:
      (1)   Building use must be for nonresidential use only and does not
include mixed residential and nonresidential use;
      (2)   Be floodproofed to an elevation no lower than two feet above the
base flood elevation;
      (3)   Be constructed of impermeable membranes or materials for floors and
walls and have watertight enclosures for all windows, doors, and other
openings; and
      (4)   Be designed to withstand the hydrostatic pressures and hydrodynamic
forces resulting from the base flood and the effects of buoyancy.
(ARM § 36.15.702(2)(b))
   (P)   Elevation of the lowest floor. Elevating the lowest floor may be by
either suitable fill, foundation wall enclosure, stem walls, pilings, posts,
piers, columns, or other acceptable means.
   (Q)   Crawlspaces.
      (1)   Crawlspace foundation enclosures including subgrade crawlspace
enclosures below the lowest floor must meet the wet floodproofing requirements
and be designed so that the crawlspace floor is at or above the base flood
elevation.
      (2)   Crawlspace foundations must have an inside dimension of not more
than five feet from the ground to the top of the living floor level, and a
subgrade crawlspace must also have the interior ground surface no more than two
feet below the exterior lowest adjacent ground surface on all sides. A subgrade
foundation exceeding either dimension is a basement.
   (R)   Manufactured home anchors. For new placements, substantial
improvements, or replacements of manufactured homes for residential or
nonresidential use including additions, the chassis must be secure and must
resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by anchoring with anchoring
components capable of carrying a force of 4,800 pounds and as follows.
      (1)   For manufactured homes less than 50 feet long, over-the-top ties to
ground anchors are required at each of the four corners of the home, with two
additional ties per side at intermediate locations.
      (2)   For manufactured homes more than 50 feet long, frame ties to ground
anchors are required at each corner of the home with five additional ties per
side at intermediate points.
   (S)   Access. Access for emergency vehicles is provided. For manufactured
homes, access for a manufactured home hauler is also provided.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a), 60.3(a)(3), 60.3(a)(3)(ii),
60.3(a)(3)(iii), 60.3(b)(8), 60.3(c)(3) through (c)(6), 60.3(c)(13), and 60.3
(d)(3)
   Related provisions, see C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(8) and 60.3(c)(6)
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-402(2)(b)
§ 152.112 RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   New construction, alterations, and substantial improvements of residential
dwellings and manufactured homes, including replacement of manufactured homes,
must be constructed such that:
   (A)   Elevation of the lowest floor. The lowest floor of the building
including an attached garage or basement must be two feet or more above the
base flood elevation;
(ARM § 36.15.701(3))
   (B)   Enclosure. Enclosures of elevated buildings cannot be dry
floodproofed. Use for an enclosure is limited to facilitating building
component access. The enclosure including a crawlspace must be wet
floodproofed, and the enclosure floor must be at or above the base flood
elevation. An attached garage floor must be two or more feet above the base
flood elevation; and
   (C)   Recreation vehicles. Recreational vehicles on-site for more than 180
days or not ready for highway use must meet the requirements for manufactured
homes for residential use.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.113 NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   New construction, alterations, and substantial improvements of
nonresidential buildings including agricultural, commercial, and industrial
buildings and residential and nonresidential accessory buildings must be
constructed such that:
   (A)   Elevation of the lowest floor. The lowest floor of the building must
be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation or adequately dry
floodproofed according to §
152.111(O);
(ARM § 36.15.702(2))
   (B)   Enclosure. Enclosures below the lowest floor on elevated buildings
must be wet floodproofed according to §
152.111(N), and the use must be limited to parking, access, or storage or must
be adequately dry floodproofed according to §
152.111(O);
   (C)   Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes proposed for use as
nonresidential buildings cannot be dry floodproofed;
   (D)   Agricultural structures. The following additional requirements and
exceptions from the requirements of this section apply to agricultural
structures not intended to be insurable: used solely for agricultural purposes;
having low flood damage potential; used exclusively in connection with the
production, harvesting, storage, drying, or raising of agricultural commodities
including raising of livestock and animal confinement facilities; and not
intended for human habitation:
      (1)   Such structures may be exempted by the Floodplain Administrator
from the lowest flood elevation requirements established in division (A) above,
provided the lowest floor of the structures are elevated to at least the base
flood elevation or adequately dry floodproofed in conformance with the
requirements of §
152.111(O); and
      (2)   Such structures shall comply with the requirements of §
152.095.
(ARM §§ 36.15.602(9) and 36.15.701(3)(e))
   (E)   Additional accessory structures, including detached garages.
      (1)   Accessory structures that are on the same parcel of property as a
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure.
      (2)   Accessory structures must be used for parking or storage, be small
and represent a minimal investment by owners, and have low damage potential.
      (3)   Small structures referenced in FEMA Technical Bulletin P-2140 means
not larger than a one-story, two-car garage.
      (4)   Such structures may be exempted by the Floodplain Administrator
from the lowest flood elevation requirements established in division (A) above,
provided the lowest floor of the structure is elevated to at least the base
flood elevation and adequately wet floodproofed in conformance with
requirements of §
152.111(N)(1) and (N)(2) or adequately dry floodproofed in conformance with the
requirements of §
152.111(O).
      (5)   Such structures shall comply with the requirements of §
152.095.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(3)(ii), 60.3(c)(3), and 60.3(c)
(4))
**** VARIANCES ****
§ 152.125 VARIANCES ALLOWED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   A variance from the minimum development standards of these regulations
may be allowed. An approved variance would permit construction in a manner
otherwise as required or prohibited by these regulations.
(ARM § 36.15.218)
   (B)   (1)   Prior to any consideration of a variance from any development
standard in these regulations, a completed floodplain permit application and
required supporting material must be submitted.
      (2)   Additionally, supporting materials in a variance application
specific to the variance request, including facts and information addressing
the criteria in §§
152.125 through
152.128, must be submitted.
      (3)   If the floodplain permit application and variance application are
deemed not correct and complete, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify the
applicant of deficiencies within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days. Under
no circumstances should it be assumed that the variance is automatically
granted.
   (C)   Public notice of the floodplain permit application and variance
application shall be given pursuant to §
152.040.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 59.1
§ 152.126 EVALUATION.
   (A)   A floodplain permit and variance shall only be issued upon a
determination that the variance is the minimum allowance necessary, considering
the flood hazard, to afford relief from these regulations and provided all of
the following criteria are met:
      (1)   There is a good and sufficient cause. Financial hardship is not
considered a good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant;
(ARM § 36.15.218(b))
      (3)   Residential and nonresidential buildings are not in the floodway
except for alterations or substantial improvements to existing buildings.
Residential dwellings including basements and attached garages do not have the
lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation;
      (4)   Any enclosure including a crawlspace must meet the requirements of
§
152.111(N), wet floodproofing, if the enclosure interior grade is at or below
the base flood elevation;
      (5)   Granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights
to existing buildings, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with other existing local laws or ordinances;
(ARM § 36.15.218(a))
      (6)   The proposed use is adequately floodproofed;
(ARM § 36.15.218(c))
      (7)   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief;
      (8)   Reasonable alternative locations are not available;
(ARM § 36.15.218(d))
      (9)   An encroachment does not cause an increase to the base flood
elevation that is beyond that allowed in these regulations; and
      (10)   All other criteria for a floodplain permit besides the specific
development standard requested by variance are met.
   (B)   An exception to the variance criteria may be allowed as follows:
      (1)   For either new construction of a structure outside of the floodway,
only or for substantial improvements or an alteration of a structure, on a lot
of one-half acres or less that is contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   (a)   For historic structures, variances may be issued for the
repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the
proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure, and the variance is the minimum relief
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
         (b)   The historic nature of the building must be designated as a
preliminary or historic structure by U.S. Secretary of Interior or an approved
state or local government historic preservation program.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. §§ 60.3(a)(3), 60.6(a), 60.6(a)(1), 60.6
(a)(3), and 60.6(a)(4)
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-406(3)
§ 152.127 APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   The Town Council shall:
   (A)   Evaluate the variance application, along with the accompanying
floodplain development permit application, using the criteria in §
152.126 and the application requirements and minimum development standards in
§§
152.085 through
152.099 and
152.110 through
152.113;
   (B)   Make findings and approve, conditionally approve, or deny the variance
and associated floodplain development permit application within 60 days, or a
time specified, of the receipt of a complete and sufficient application;
   (C)   If approved, attach conditions to the approval of the variance and
associated floodplain development permit, including a project completion date
and inspections during and after construction;
   (D)   Notify the applicant that the issuance of a variance and associated
floodplain development permit to construct a structure not meeting the minimum
building requirements in these regulations may result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance, and that flood insurance premiums are determined by
actuarial risk and will not be modified by the granting of a variance; and
   (E)   Submit to the Floodplain Administrator a record of all actions
involving a variance and associated floodplain development permit, including
the findings and decision, and send a copy of each variance granted to DNRC.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6(a) and 60.6(a)(6)
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-405
§ 152.128 APPEAL/REVIEW.
   Any person or persons aggrieved by the variance and associated floodplain
development permit decision may appeal such decision in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
**** ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS ****
§ 152.140 APPEALS ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An administrative appeal may be brought before the Town Council for
review of the Floodplain Administrator’s order; decision to grant, condition,
or deny a floodplain permit; or interpretation of the regulated flood hazard
area boundary.
   (B)   The following provisions apply to administrative appeals.
      (1)   An appeal shall include the basis of the appeal and supporting
information including specific findings and conclusions of the Floodplain
Administrator’s decision being appealed.
      (2)   An appeal may be submitted by an applicant and/or anyone who may be
aggrieved by the Floodplain Administrator’s decision or order.
      (3)   Appeals must be received within 30 days of the date of the decision
or order of the Floodplain Administrator.
      (4)   Additional information specific to the appeal request may be
requested by the Town Council.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.141 NOTICE AND HEARING; DECISION.
   (A)   (1)   Notice of the pending appeal and hearing shall be provided
pursuant to §
152.040. The Floodplain Administrator may notify DNRC and FEMA of pending
appeals.
      (2)   A public hearing on the appeal must be held within 30 days of the
notice unless set otherwise.
   (B)   A judgment on an appeal shall be made within 30 days of the hearing
unless set otherwise. The decision may affirm, modify, or overturn the
Floodplain Administrator’s decision. A decision on an appeal of a permit cannot
grant or issue a variance. A decision may support, reverse, or remand an order
or determination of a boundary of the regulated flood hazard area by the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.142 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision on an administrative appeal
may appeal such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
**** ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 152.155 INVESTIGATION REQUEST.
   (A)   An investigation to determine compliance with these regulations for an
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use within the regulated flood hazard
area may be made either on the initiative of the Floodplain Administrator or on
the written request of three titleholders of land which may be affected by the
activity.
   (B)   The names and addresses of the persons requesting the investigation
shall be released if requested.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-105(2)
§ 152.156 NOTICE TO ENTER.
   The Floodplain Administrator may make reasonable entry upon any lands and
waters for the purpose of making an investigation, inspection, or survey to
verify compliance with these regulations.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide notice of entry by mail,
electronic mail, phone call, or personal delivery to the owner, owner’s agent,
lessee, or lessee’s agent, whose lands will be entered.
   (B)   If none of these persons can be found, the Floodplain Administrator
shall affix a copy of the notice to one or more conspicuous places on the
property.
   (C)   If the owners do not respond, cannot be located, or refuse entry to
the Floodplain Administrator, the Floodplain Administrator may initiate a
search warrant.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-105(1)
§ 152.157 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   When the Floodplain Administrator determines that a violation may have
occurred, the Floodplain Administrator may issue written notice to the owner or
an agent of the owner either personally or by certified mail.
   (B)   Such notice shall cite the regulatory offense and include an order to
take corrective action within a reasonable time or to respond by requesting an
administrative review by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.158 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   The order to take corrective action is final unless, within five working
days or any granted extension after the order is received, the owner submits a
written request for an administrative review by the Floodplain Administrator. A
request for an administrative review does not stay the order.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.159 APPEAL.
   Within ten working days or any granted extension of receipt of the
Floodplain Administrator’s decision concluding the administrative review, the
property owner or owner’s agent may appeal the decision pursuant to §§
152.140 through
152.142.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.160 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner fails to comply with the order for corrective action, remedies
may include administrative or legal actions or penalties through a court of
law.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.161 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Sections
152.155 through
152.160 do not prevent efforts to obtain voluntary compliance through warning,
conference, or any other appropriate means. Action under this part shall not
bar enforcement of these regulations by injunction or other appropriate remedy.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of the requirements, including failure to obtain permit approval prior
to development in the regulated flood hazard area except for an emergency,
shall constitute a misdemeanor and may be treated as a public nuisance.
      (2)   Any person who violates these regulations or fails to comply with
any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$100 or imprisoned for not more than ten days or both. Each day’s continuance
of a violation shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Upon finding of a violation and failure of the owner to take
corrective action as ordered, the Floodplain Administrator may submit notice
and request a § 1316 Violation Declaration to the Federal Insurance
Administrator. The Federal Insurance Administrator has the authority to deny
new and renewal flood insurance for a structure upon finding a valid violation
declaration.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide the Federal Insurance
Administrator the following:
      (1)   The name(s) of the property owner(s) and address or legal
description of the property sufficient to confirm its identity and location;
      (2)   A clear and unequivocal declaration that the property is in
violation of a cited state or local law, regulation, or ordinance;
      (3)   A clear statement that the public body making the declaration has
authority to do so and a citation to that authority;
      (4)   Evidence that the property owner has been provided notice of the
violation and the prospective denial of insurance; and
      (5)   A clear statement that the declaration is being submitted pursuant
to § 1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.
(Ord. 125, passed - - ; Res. 2024-8, passed 11-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 73.3
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-5-110
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. 124      8-10-2015   Non-exclusive franchise agreement with Northwestern
                          Corporation for natural gas.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Montana Code Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MONTANA CODE ANNOTATED
M.C.A. Section Code Section
M.C.A. Section                   Code Section
1-2-105                          110.02
7-3-113                          30.01
7-3-113(1)(e)                    30.15
7-3-201                          30.01
7-3-202(1)                       30.01
7-3-203                          30.01
7-3-212(2)                       30.01
7-3-213(3)                       30.01;
                                 30.15
7-3-214(2)                       30.01
7-3-215(2)                       30.01
7-3-216(2)                       30.01
7-3-217(2)                       30.01
7-3-218(2)                       30.01
7-3-219(2)                       30.01
7-3-220(1)                       30.01
7-3-221(3)                       30.01
7-3-222(2)                       30.01
7-3-223(2)                       30.01
                                 30.30;
                                 70.01;
                                 71.04;
                                 Ch. 72, Sched. I;
                                 90.01;
                                 90.20;
                                 90.37;
                                 91.01 -
45-2-101                         91.04;
                                 92.06;
                                 130.01;
                                 130.02;
                                 131.03;
                                 132.01;
                                 150.19;
                                 151.01;
                                 151.20
                                 30.30;
                                 70.01;
                                 71.04;
                                 Ch. 72, Sched. I;
                                 90.01;
                                 90.20;
                                 90.37;
                                 91.01;
                                 91.02;
45-2-104                         91.03;
                                 91.04;
                                 92.06;
                                 130.01;
                                 130.02;
                                 131.03;
                                 132.01;
                                 150.19;
                                 151.01;
                                 151.20
50-37-107                        91.01
Title 61, Chapter 8              70.01
76-1-221                         30.31
Title 76, Chapter 5              152.003
76-5-102                         152.006
76-5-103(1)                      152.018
76-5-103(2)                      152.018
76-5-103(4)                      152.019
76-5-103(5)                      152.019
76-5-103(7)                      152.018
76-5-103(9) through 76-5-103(11) 152.019
76-5-103(13)                     152.019
76-5-105(1)                      152.156
76-5-105(2)                      152.155
76-5-108                         152.042
76-5-110                         152.999
Title 76, Chapter 5, part 2      152.019
                                 152.004;
76-5-201 et seq.                 152.055;
                                 152.057
76-5-301                         152.003;
                                 152.072
76-5-301(1)                      152.018
76-5-302                         152.004
76-5-401                         152.071
76-5-401(1)                      152.071
76-5-401(2)                      152.071
76-5-401(4)                      152.071
76-5-401(5)                      152.071
76-5-402(2)(b)                   152.111
76-5-403(1) through 76-5-403(3)  152.072
76-5-404                         152.037
76-5-404(1)                      152.037
                                 152.019;
76-5-404(3)                      152.071;
                                 152.072;
                                 152.073
                                 152.017;
76-5-404(3)(b)                   152.037;
                                 152.071;
                                 152.099
76-5-405                         152.127;
                                 152.038
76-5-405(2)                      152.039;
                                 152.042
76-5-406                         152.041
76-5-406(3)                      152.126
76-5-406(1) through 76-5-406(7)  152.086
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
-                  30.01
2.01.01            30.15
2.01.02            30.15
2.02.01            31.01
2.02.02            31.01
2.03.01            150.01
2.03.02            150.01
2.03.03            150.99
4.01.01            91.01
4.01.02            91.01;
                   91.04
4.01.03            91.01
4.01.04            91.99
4.01.05            91.01
4.02.01            91.02
4.02.02            91.99
4.02.03            91.02
4.03.01            91.03
4.03.02            91.03
4.03.03            91.99
4.03.04            91.03
4.04.01            91.04
4.04.03            91.99
4.04.04            91.04
4.05.01            90.01
4.05.02            90.99
4.05.03            90.01
4.06.01            90.35
4.06.02            90.36
4.06.03            90.36
4.06.04            90.99
4.06.05            90.37
4.07.01            90.50
4.07.02            90.51
4.07.03            90.52
4.07.04            90.53
4.07.05            90.54
4.07.06            90.55
4.08.01            130.02
4.08.02            130.02
4.08.03            130.99
4.08.04            130.02
4.09.01            130.01
4.09.02            130.99
4.09.03            130.01
4.11.01            132.01
4.11.02            132.01
4.11.03            132.99
4.11.04            132.01
7.01.01            90.15
7.01.02            90.16
7.01.03            90.17
7.01.04            90.18
7.01.05            90.19
7.01.06            90.99
7.01.07            90.20
7.02.01            151.15
7.02.02            151.16
7.02.03            151.17
7.02.04            151.18
7.02.05            151.19
7.02.06            151.99
7.02.07            151.20
7.03.01            150.15
7.03.02            150.16
7.03.03            150.17
7.03.04            150.17
7.03.05            150.18
7.03.06            150.99
7.03.07            150.19
7.04.01            151.01
7.04.02            151.01
7.04.03            151.01
7.04.04            151.99
7.04.05            151.01
8.01.01            70.01
8.01.02            70.01
8.01.03            70.99
8.01.04            70.01
8.02.01            71.01
8.02.02            71.02
8.02.03            Ch. 72, Sched. I
8.02.04            71.03
8.02.06            71.04;
                   Ch. 72, Sched. I
8.02.05            71.99;
                   Ch. 72, Sched. I
10.02.01           92.01
10.02.02           92.01
10.02.03           92.01
10.02.04           92.02
10.02.05           92.03
10.02.06           92.04
10.02.07           92.05
10.02.08           92.99
10.02.09           92.06
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2024-5   9-9-2024    30.31
                     152.001—
                     152.020;
                     152.035—
                     152.044;
                     152.055—
                     152.057;
                     152.070—
                     152.073;
                     152.085—
2024-8   11-12-2024  152.099;
                     152.110—
                     152.113;
                     152.125—
                     152.128;
                     152.140—
                     152.142;
                     152.155—
                     152.161;
                     152.999
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     152.001—
                     152.020;
                     152.035—
                     152.044;
                     152.055—
                     152.057;
                     152.070—
                     152.073;
                     152.085—
125      - -         152.099;
                     152.110—
                     152.113;
                     152.125—
                     152.128;
                     152.140—
                     152.142;
                     152.155—
                     152.161;
                     152.999
112      8-13-2007   130.01;
                     130.99
100      8-27-2007   91.01;
                     91.99
101      8-27-2007   91.02;
                     91.99
102      8-27-2007   91.03;
                     91.99
103      8-27-2007   91.04;
                     91.99
104      8-27-2007   90.01;
                     90.99
                     90.35—
105      8-27-2007   90.37;
                     90.99
106      8-27-2007   90.50—
                     90.55
                     90.15—
107      8-27-2007   90.20;
                     90.99
                     151.15—
108      8-27-2007   151.20;
                     151.99
109      8-27-2007   151.01;
                     151.99
                     150.15—
110      8-27-2007   150.19;
                     150.99
111      8-27-2007   130.02;
                     130.99
114      8-27-2007   132.01;
                     132.99
115      8-27-2007   70.01;
                     70.99
                     71.01—
116      8-27-2007   71.04;
                     Ch. 72, Sched. I
                     92.01—
117      8-27-2007   92.06;
                     92.99
119      8-27-2007   31.01
120      8-27-2007   30.15
121      8-27-2007   150.01;
                     150.99
123      3-12-2012   30.30
124      8-15-2015   TSO, Table I
                     50.01—
                     50.05;
                     50.20—
118      6-12-2017   50.34;
                     50.45—
                     50.49;
                     50.99
                     131.01—
113      - -2019     131.03;
                     131.99
                     110.01—
1-2022   4-19-2022   110.14;
                     110.99
 
 
