LUNA COUNTY, NEW MEXICO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord. 118, passed 3-13-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory reference
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This 2025 codification of ordinances by and for the County of Luna, New
Mexico, shall be designated as the “County of Luna Code of Ordinances” and may
be cited herein as “this code” or “this code of ordinances.”
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings, captions, and statutory references used in this code other than
the title, chapter, subchapter, and section number are employed for reference
purposes only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense.
      (2)   However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPOINTED OFFICIAL. Any person appointed to a board, committee,
commission, or advisory body, in accordance with this code of ordinances.
APPOINTED OFFICIALS are not subject to the provisions of the county personnel
ordinance and shall serve at the pleasure of the County Manager.
      BOARD or BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS (BOCC). The governing body of the
County of Luna, State of New Mexico.
      CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the county who is entitled to
grievance in accordance with the personnel policies and work rules, and who is
not exempt under the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq.
      CODE or CODE OF ORDINANCES. The county’s code of ordinances, as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new chapters, subchapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Luna County, New Mexico.
      COUNTY OFFICER. Any appointed employee.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. Those county officials elected under the laws of the
state, specifically, the members of the governing body.
      EX OFFICIO. A person assigned to a standing board or committee by virtue
of that person’s office. The person shall not be permitted to make or second
motions or to vote on any matter, or to be counted for the purpose of a quorum.
      GOVERNING BODY. The members of the Board of County Commissioners. The
corporate authority of the county is vested in this body.
      INTERPRETATION. For the purpose of this code and ensuing chapters and
appendices, and when not inconsistent with the context:
         (a)   Words used in the present tense include the future;
         (b)   Words in the future tense include the present;
         (c)   Words in the plural include the singular;
         (d)   Words in the singular include the plural;
         (e)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory; the
word MAY is permissive; and
         (f)   The impersonal pronouns “he,” “his,” “him,” and “himself” shall
denote either the feminine or the masculine gender.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of the county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver; and
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall
mean the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of New Mexico.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the county shall be by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
governing body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   “And” or “or.” Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requirement shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this code of ordinances are severable, and if any
provision, subchapter, section, division, clause, sentence, or part thereof is
held to be illegal, invalid, unconstitutional, or inapplicable, to any person,
persons, circumstances, situation, or otherwise, the illegality, invalidity,
unconstitutionality, or inapplicability shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining sentences, clauses, divisions, sections, subchapters, or parts of
this code of ordinances, or their applicability to other persons,
circumstances, or situations.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the county for the transaction of all county business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done shall be computed by
excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be a Saturday, Sunday, or county holiday, it shall
be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   An ordinance shall not become effective until five days after it has been
published unless passed and approved as an emergency measure, in which event it
shall become effective immediately following publication or at a subsequent
date determined by the governing body.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceeding, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the governing body shall desire to amend any existing chapter,
subchapter, or section of this code, the chapter, subchapter, or section shall
be specifically repealed and a new chapter, subchapter, or section, containing
the desired amendment, substituted in its place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter, subchapter, or section shall indicate, with reference to the
arrangement of this code, the proper number of the chapter, subchapter, or
section.
      (2)   In addition to the indication thereof, as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the original ordinance and
amending ordinances, if any, are listed.
      Example: (Ord. 93, passed 1-20-1980; Ord. 98, passed 1-20-1990; Ord. 99,
passed 1-20-2000)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      Example:
         § 33.025 JURISDICTION.
            The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction over all offenses and
complaints under the ordinances of the county and may issue subpoenas and
warrants and punish for contempts, and the Municipal Court shall have
jurisdiction over other matters as may be authorized pursuant to state law.
         (NMSA § 35-14-2) (Ord. 772, passed 12-30-1986)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
      Example:
         § 30.05 LEGISLATION GENERALLY.
            The passage of ordinances and other legislation by the County
Council shall be in conformity with state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Ordinances, see NMSA §§ 3-17-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless a lesser maximum penalty or a specific penalty is established
by ordinance or statute for a particular offense, the maximum penalty for
violation of an ordinance or code provision, except for violations set forth in
divisions (B) and (C) below, shall be a fine of not more than $500 or
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both.
   (B)   For violations of an ordinance or code provision prohibiting driving a
motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs, a fine
of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 364 days, or both.
   (C)   For violations of an industrial user wastewater pretreatment ordinance
or code provision as required by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, a
fine of not more than $1,000 a day for each violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   COUNTY EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
33.   FINANCES AND FEES
      
34.   TAXATION
      
35.   COUNTY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
30.01   Election districts
§ 30.01 ELECTION DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General. The Commissioner Districts, as seen in division (B) below,
are populated as follows:
      (1)   District 1: 8,692 with a mean deviation of 2.56%;
      (2)   District 2: 8,900 with a mean deviation of 5.01%; and
      (3)   District 3: 7,835 with a mean deviation of 7.55%.
   (B)   Election district map.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db482c700e8dd80f8f53f2692dd56203d2933f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1043.png]
 
(Ord. 108, passed 11-10-2021)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Personnel policy adopted by reference
Labor Management
   
31.015   Short title
   
31.016   Purpose
   
31.017   Definitions
   
31.018   Rights of employees
   
31.019   Rights of employer
   
31.020   Labor Management Relations Board; powers, duties
   
31.021   Hearing procedures
   
31.022   Appropriate bargaining units
   
31.023   Elections
   
31.024   Exclusive representation
   
31.025   Decertification of exclusive representative
   
31.026   Scope of bargaining
   
31.027   Impasse resolution
   
31.028   Employers; prohibited practices
   
31.029   Employees; labor organizations, prohibited practices
   
31.030   Strikes and lockouts
   
31.031   Agreements valid; enforcement
   
31.032   Judicial enforcement; standard of review
Planning Commission
   
31.045   Establishment
   
31.046   Purpose
   
31.047   Jurisdiction
   
31.048   Powers and duties
   
31.049   Membership
   
31.050   Compensation
   
31.051   Chairperson
   
31.052   Employees
   
31.053   Meetings
   
31.054   Quorum
   
31.055   Record of meeting
Code Reviser
   
31.070   County Code Reviser
   
31.071   Codification, revision of ordinances, resolutions
   
31.072   Omission of certain sections of ordinances, resolutions
   
31.073   Code index
   
31.074   Code tables
   
31.075   Inclusion of local rules of the County Magistrate Court
   
31.076   Improvement of statutes
   
31.077   Ordinances, resolutions provided to the Reviser
   
31.078   Specifications for code publication; certificate of compliance
   
31.079   Code deemed official if certified
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 PERSONNEL POLICY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Personnel Policy of the county, as adopted by Ord. 23, is hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated into this code as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 23, passed 12-19-2022)
LABOR MANAGEMENT
§ 31.015 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the “Luna County Labor Management Relations
Ordinance,” or “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.016 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to guarantee employees the right to
organize and bargain collectively with their employer, to protect the rights of
the employer and the employees, and to promote harmonious and cooperative
relationships between the employer and the employees, and to acknowledge the
obligation of the employer and the employees to provide orderly and
uninterrupted services to the citizens.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.017 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNIT. A group of employees designated by the Board of
County Commissioners for the purpose of collective bargaining.
   APPROPRIATE GOVERNING BODY. The policymaking body or individual representing
a public employer.
   AUTHORIZATION CARD. A signed affirmation by a member of an appropriate
bargaining unit designating a particular organization as exclusive
representative.
   BOARD. The County Labor Management Relations Board.
   CERTIFICATION. The designation by the board of a labor organization as the
exclusive representative for all public employees in an appropriate bargaining
unit.
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. The act of negotiating between a public employer and
an exclusive representative for the purpose of entering into a written
agreement regarding wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment.
   CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE. A person who devotes a majority of the person’s time
to assisting and acting in a confidential capacity with respect to a person who
formulates, determines, and effectuates management policies.
   EMERGENCY. A one-time crisis that was unforeseen and unavoidable.
   EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE. A labor organization that, as a result of
certification, has the
right to represent all public employees in an appropriate bargaining unit for
the purposes of collective bargaining.
   IMPASSE. Failure of a public employer and an exclusive representative, after
goodfaith bargaining, to reach an agreement in the course of negotiating a
collective bargaining agreement.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. An employee organization, one of whose purposes is the
representation of public employees in collective bargaining and in otherwise
meeting, consulting, and conferring with employers on matters pertaining to
employment relations.
   LOCKOUT. An act by the employer to prevent its employees from going to work
for the purpose of resisting demands of the employees’ exclusive
representative, or for the purpose of gaining a concession from the exclusive
representative.
   MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE. An employee who is engaged primarily in executive and
management functions and is charged with the responsibility of developing,
administering, or effectuating management policies. An employee shall not be
deemed a MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE solely because the employee participates in
cooperative decision-making programs or whose fiscal responsibilities are
routine, incidental, or clerical.
   MEDIATION. Assistance by an impartial third party to resolve an impasse
between a public employer and an exclusive representative regarding employment
relations through interpretation, suggestion, and advice.
   PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEE. An employee whose work is predominantly intellectual
and varied in character and whose work involves the consistent exercise of
discretion and judgment in its performance, and requires knowledge of an
advanced nature in a field of learning customarily requiring specialized study
at an institution of higher education or its equivalent. The work of a
PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEE is of such character that the output or result
accomplished cannot be standardized in relation to a given period of time.
   PUBLIC EMPLOYEE. A regular non-probationary employee of the county, and
includes those employees whose work is funded, in whole or in part, by grants
or other third party sources.
   PUBLIC EMPLOYER. Luna County, New Mexico.
   STRIKE. A public employee’s refusal, in concerted action with other public
employees, to report for duty or the willful absence, in whole or in part, from
the full, faithful, and proper performance of the duties of employment for the
purpose of inducing, influencing, or coercing a change in the conditions,
compensation, rights, privileges, or obligations of public employment.
   SUPERVISOR. An employee who devotes a majority of work time to supervisory
duties, who customarily and regularly directs the work of two or more other
employees, and who has the authority in the interest of the employer to hire,
promote, or discipline other employees, or to recommend such actions
effectively, but SUPERVISOR does not include an individual who performs merely
routine, incidental, or clerical duties, or who occasionally assumes a
supervisory or directory role or whose duties are substantially similar to
those of the individual’s subordinates, and does not include a lead employee or
an employee who participates in peer review or occasional employee evaluation
programs.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.018 RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   (1)   Employees, other than management, supervisory, confidential, and
probationary employees, may form, join, or assist any labor organization for
the purpose of collective bargaining through a representative chosen by the
employees without interference, restraint, or coercion.
      (2)   Employees also have the right to refuse to form, join, or assist
any labor organization.
   (B)   Public employees have the right to engage in other concerted
activities for mutual aid or benefit. This right shall not be construed as
modifying the prohibition on strikes set forth in §
31.030.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.019 RIGHTS OF EMPLOYER.
   Unless limited by the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement or by
other statutory provision, the employer may:
   (A)   Direct the work of, hire, promote, assign, transfer, demote, suspend,
discharge, or terminate public employees;
   (B)   Determine qualifications for employment and the nature and content of
personnel examinations;
   (C)   Take actions as may be necessary to carry out the mission of the
employer in emergencies; and
   (D)   Retain all rights not specifically limited by a collective bargaining
agreement or by the Public Employee Bargaining Act, being NMSA §§ 10-7E-1 et
seq.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.020 LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS BOARD; POWERS, DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Labor Management Relations Board created on September 8,
2016, pursuant to the original ordinance codified in this subchapter, shall
continue to exist except as provided in NMSA § 10-7E-10(B) through 10-7E-10(J).
      (2)   The Board shall be composed of three members appointed by the
County Manager and approved by the Board of County Commissioners. One member
shall be appointed on the recommendation of individuals representing labor, one
member shall be appointed on the recommendation of the County Manager, and one
member shall be appointed on the recommendation of the first two appointees.
      (3)   Board members shall serve for a period of one year with terms.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment, and
such appointments shall only be made for the remainder of the unexpired term. A
Board member may serve an unlimited number of terms.
      (4)   During the term of appointment, no Board member shall hold or seek
any ether political office or public employment, or be an employee of a union,
an organization representing public employees, or a public employer.
      (5)   Each Board member shall be paid per diem and mileage in accordance
with the provisions of the Per Diem and Mileage Act, being NMSA §§ 10-8-1 et
seq.
   (B)   (1)   The Labor Management Relations Board shall promulgate rules and
regulations necessary to accomplish and perform its functions and duties as
established in this subchapter, including the establishment of procedures for:
         (a)   The designation of appropriate bargaining units;
         (b)   The selection, certification, and decertification of exclusive
representatives; and
         (c)   The filing, hearing, and determination of complaints of
prohibited practices.
      (2)   The Labor Management Relations Board shall:
         (a)   Hold hearings and make inquiries necessary to carry out its
functions and duties;
         (b)   Conduct studies on problems pertaining to employee-employer
relations;
         (c)   Request information and data from public employers and labor
organizations necessary to carry out its functions and responsibilities; and
         (d)   Hire personnel or contract with third parties as the appropriate
governing body deems necessary to assist the Labor Management Relations Board
in carrying out its functions, and may delegate any or all of its authority to
those third parties, subject to final review of the Labor Management Relations
Board.
      (3)   The Labor Management Relations Board may issue subpoenas requiring,
upon reasonable notice, the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of evidence, including books, records, correspondence, or documents
relating to the matter in question. The Labor Management Relations Board may
prescribe the form of subpoena, but it shall adhere insofar as practicable to
the form used in civil actions in the District Court. The Labor Management
Relations Board may administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and
receive evidence.
      (4)   The Labor Management Relations Board shall decide issues by
majority vote and shall issue its decisions in the form of written orders and
opinions.
      (5)   The Labor Management Relations Board has the power to enforce
provisions of the Public Employee Bargaining Act, being NMSA §§ 10-7E-1 et
seq., and this subchapter through the imposition of appropriate administrative
remedies, actual damages related to dues, back pay, including benefits,
reinstatement with the same seniority status that the employee would have had
but for the violation, declaratory, or injunctive relief or provisional
remedies, including temporary restraining orders or preliminary injunctions. No
punitive damages or attorney fees may be awarded by the Labor Management
Relations Board.
      (6)   No rule or regulation promulgated by the Labor Management Relations
Board shall require, directly or indirectly, as a condition of continuous
employment, any employee covered by this subchapter to pay money to any labor
organization that is certified as an exclusive representative.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.021 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Labor Management Relations Board may hold hearings for the
purposes of:
      (1)   Information gathering and inquiry;
      (2)   Adopting rules; and
      (3)   Adjudicating disputes and enforcing the provisions of this
subchapter and rules adopted pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt rules setting forth procedures to be followed
during hearings of the Board. Such rules shall meet minimal due process
requirements of the state and federal constitutions.
   (C)   The Labor Management Relations Board may appoint a hearing examiner to
conduct any adjudicatory hearing authorized by Labor Management Relations
Board. At the conclusion of the hearing, the examiner shall prepare a written
report, including findings and recommendations, all of which shall be submitted
to the Labor Management Relations Board for its decision.
   (D)   A rule proposed to be adopted by the Labor Management Relations Board
that affects a person or governmental entity outside of the Labor Management
Relations Board and its staff shall not be adopted, amended, or repealed
without public hearing and comment on the proposed action before the Labor
Management Relations Board. The public hearing shall be held after notice of
the subject matter of the rule, the action proposed to be taken, the time and
place of the hearing, the manner in which interested persons may present their
views, and the method by which copies of the proposed rule, proposed amendment,
or repeal of an existing rule may be obtained. All meetings shall be held in
the county. Notice shall be published once at least 30 days prior to the
hearing date in a newspaper of general circulation in the county and notice
shall be mailed at least 30 days prior to the hearing date to all persons who
have made a written request for advance notice of hearings.
   (E)   All adopted rules shall be filed in accordance with applicable state
statutes.
   (F)   A verbatim record made by electronic or other suitable means shall be
made of every rule making and adjudicatory hearing. The record shall not be
transcribed unless required for judicial review or unless ordered by the Board
or local board.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.022 APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNITS.
   (A)   The Labor Management Relations Board shall, upon receipt of a petition
for a representation election filed by a labor organization, designate the
appropriate bargaining unit. Appropriate bargaining units shall be established
on the basis of occupational groups or a clear and identifiable community of
interest in employment terms, employment conditions, and related personnel
matters among the employees involved. Occupational groups shall generally be
identified as blue collar, secretarial clerical, technical, paraprofessional,
professional, corrections, firefighters, and police officers. Department,
craft, or trade designations other than as specified above shall not determine
bargaining units. The parties, by mutual agreement and approval of the Board,
may further consolidate occupational groups. The essential factors in
determining appropriate bargaining units shall include the principles of
efficient administration of government, the history of collective bargaining,
and the assurance to employees of their rights guaranteed by this subchapter.
   (B)   If the labor organization and the employer cannot agree on the
appropriate bargaining unit within 30 days, the Labor Management Relations
Board shall hold a hearing concerning the composition of the bargaining unit.
Any agreement as to the appropriate bargaining unit between the employer and
the labor organization is subject to the approval of the Labor Management
Relations Board.
   (C)   The Labor Management Relations Board shall not include in any
appropriate bargaining unit probationary, supervisory, managerial, or
confidential employees.
   (D)   Jobs included within a bargaining unit pursuant to a county labor
management relations ordinance in effect on January 1, 2020, shall remain in
that bargaining unit after enactment of this subchapter unless otherwise
removed by the Labor Management Relations Board in accordance with its rules
governing unit clarification.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.023 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever, in accordance with rules prescribed by the Labor Management
Relations Board, a petition is filed by a labor organization containing the
signatures of at least 30% of the public employees in an appropriate bargaining
unit, the Board or local board shall conduct a secret ballot representation
election to determine whether and by which labor organization the public
employees in the appropriate bargaining unit shall be represented. Upon
acceptance of a valid petition, the Labor Management Relations Board shall
require the ______ to provide the labor organization, within ten business days,
the names, job titles, work locations, home addresses, personal email
addresses, and home or cellular telephone numbers of any public employee in the
proposed bargaining unit. This information shall be kept confidential by the
labor organization ad its employees or officers. The ballot shall contain the
name of any labor organization submitting a petition containing signatures of
at least 30% of the public employees in the appropriate bargaining unit. The
ballot shall also contain a provision allowing public employees to indicate
whether they do not desire to be represented by a labor organization. An
election shall only be valid if 40% of the eligible employees in the bargaining
unit vote in the election.
   (B)   Once a labor organization has filed a valid petition calling for a
representation election, other labor organizations may seek to be placed on the
ballot. Such an organization shall file a petition containing the signatures of
not less than 30% of the public employees in the appropriate bargaining unit no
later than ten days after the Labor Management Relations Board and the public
employer post a written notice that the petition in division (A) above has been
filed by a labor organization.
   (C)   As an alternative to the provisions of division (A) above, a labor
organization with a reasonable basis for claiming to represent a majority of
the employees in an appropriate bargaining unit may submit authorization cards
from a majority of the employees in an appropriate bargaining unit to the Labor
Management Relations Board, which shall, upon verification that a majority of
the employees in the appropriate bargaining unit have signed valid
authorization cards, certify the labor organization as the exclusive
representative of all public employees in the appropriate bargaining unit. The
employer may challenge the verification of the Labor Management Relations
Board; the Labor Management Relations Board shall hold a fact-finding hearing
on the challenge to conform that a majority of the employees in the appropriate
bargaining unit have signed valid authorization cards.
   (D)   If a labor organization receives a majority of votes cast, it shall be
certified as the exclusive representative of all public employees in the
appropriate bargaining unit. Within 15 days of an election in which no labor
organization receives a majority of the votes cast, a runoff election between
the two choices receiving the largest number of votes cast shall be conducted.
The Labor Management Relations Board shall certify the results of the election,
and, when a labor organization receives a majority of the votes cast, the Labor
Management Relations Board shall certify the labor organization as the
exclusive representative of all public employees in the appropriate bargaining
unit.
   (E)   An election shall not be conducted if an election or runoff election
has been conducted in the 12-month period immediately preceding the proposed
representation election. An election shall not be held during the term of an
existing collective bargaining agreement, except as provided in §
31.025.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.024 EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   (1)   A labor organization that has been certified by the Labor
Management Relations Board as representing the public employees in the
appropriate bargaining unit shall be the exclusive representative of all public
employees in the appropriate bargaining unit. The exclusive representative
shall act for all public employees in the appropriate bargaining unit and
negotiate a collective bargaining agreement covering all public employees in
the appropriate bargaining unit.
      (2)   The exclusive representative shall represent the interests of all
public employees in the appropriate bargaining unit without discrimination or
regard to membership in the labor organization. A claim by a public employee
that the exclusive representative has violated this duty of fair representation
shall be forever barred if not brought within six months of the date on which
the public employee knew, or reasonably should have known, of the violation.
   (B)   This section does not prevent a public employee, acting individually,
from presenting a grievance without the intervention of the exclusive
representative. At a hearing on a grievance brought by a public employee
individually, the exclusive representative shall be afforded the opportunity to
be present and make its views known. An adjustment made shall not be
inconsistent with or in violation of the collective bargaining agreement then
in effect between the public employer and the exclusive representative.
   (C)   The county shall provide an exclusive representative of an appropriate
bargaining unit reasonable access to employees within the bargaining unit,
including the following:
      (1)   For purposes of newly hired employees in the bargaining unit,
REASONABLE ACCESS includes:
         (a)   The right to meet with new employees, without loss of employee
compensation or leave benefits; and
         (b)   The right to meet with new employees within 30 days from the
date of hire for a period of at least 30 minutes, but not more than 120
minutes, during new employee orientation or, if the public employer does not
conduct new employee orientations, at individual or group meetings.
      (2)   For purposes of employees in the bargaining unit who are not new
employees, REASONABLE ACCESS includes:
         (a)   The right to meet with employees during the employees’ regular
work hours at the employees’ regular work location to investigate and discuss
grievances, workplace-related complaints, and other matters relating to
employment relations; and
         (b)   The right to conduct meetings at the employees’ regular work
location before or after the employees’ regular work hours, during meal
periods, and during any other break periods.
   (D)   (1)   The county shall permit an exclusive representative to use the
public employer’s facilities or property, whether owned or leased by the
employer, for purposes of conducting meetings with the represented employees in
the bargaining unit.
      (2)   An exclusive representative may hold the meetings described in this
section at a time and place set by the exclusive representative. The exclusive
representative shall have the right to conduct the meetings without undue
interference and may establish reasonable rules regarding appropriate conduct
for meeting attendees.
   (E)   The meetings described in this section shall not interfere with the
county operations.
   (F)   If the county has the information in its records, the county shall
provide to the exclusive representative, in an editable digital file format
agreed to by the exclusive representative, the following information for each
employee in an appropriate bargaining unit:
      (1)   The employee’s name and date of hire; and
      (2)   Contact information, including:
         (a)   Cellular, home, and work telephone numbers;
         (b)   A means of electronic communication, including work and personal
electronic mail addresses;
         (c)   Home address or personal mailing address; and
         (d)   Employment information, including the employee’s job title,
salary, and work site location.
   (G)   (1)   The county shall provide the information described in division
(F) above to the exclusive representative within ten days from the date of hire
for newly hired employees in an appropriate bargaining unit, and every 120 days
for employees in the bargaining unit who are not newly hired employees.
      (2)   The information shall be kept confidential by the labor
organization and its employees or officers. Apart from the disclosure required
by this division (G), and notwithstanding any provision contained in the
Inspection of Public Records Act, being NMSA §§ 14-2-1 et seq., the public
employer shall not disclose the information described in division (F) above, or
public employees’ dates of birth or Social Security numbers, to a third party.
   (H)   An exclusive representative shall have the right to use the electronic
mail systems or other similar communication systems of a public employer to
communicate with the employees in the bargaining unit regarding:
      (1)   Collective bargaining, including the administration of collective
bargaining agreements;
      (2)   The investigation of grievances or other disputes relating to
employment relations; and
      (3)   Matters involving the governance or business of the labor
organization.
   (I)   Nothing in this section prevents the county from providing an
exclusive representative access to employees within the bargaining unit beyond
the reasonable access required under this section, or limits any existing right
of a labor organization to communicate with public employees.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.025 DECERTIFICATION OF EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE.
   (A)   (1)   A member of a labor organization or the labor organization
itself may initiate decertification of a labor organization as the exclusive
representative if 30% of the public employees in the appropriate bargaining
unit make a written request to the Board for a decertification election.
      (2)   Decertification elections shall be held in a manner prescribed by
rule of the Board. An election shall only be valid if 40% of the eligible
employees in the bargaining unit vote in the election.
   (B)   When there is a collective bargaining agreement in effect, a request
for a decertification election shall be made to the Board no earlier than 90
days and no later than 60 days before the expiration of the collective
bargaining agreement; provided, however, a request for an election may be filed
at any time after the expiration of the third year of a collective bargaining
agreement with a term of more than three years.
   (C)   When, within the time period prescribed in division (B) above, a
competing labor organization files a petition containing signatures of at least
30% of the public employees in the appropriate bargaining unit, a
representation election rather than a decertification election shall be
conducted.
   (D)   When an exclusive representative has been certified but no collective
bargaining agreement is in effect, the Board shall not accept a request for a
decertification election or an election sought by a competing labor
organization earlier than 12 months subsequent to a labor organization’s
certification as the exclusive representative.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.026 SCOPE OF BARGAINING.
   (A)   Except for retirement programs provided pursuant to the Public
Employees Retirement Act, being NMSA §§ 10-11-1 et seq., public employers and
exclusive representatives:
      (1)   Shall bargain in good faith on wages, hours, and all other terms
and conditions of employment and other issues agreed to by the parties.
However, neither the public employer nor the exclusive representative shall be
required to agree to a proposal or to make a concession; and
      (2)   Shall enter into written collective bargaining agreements covering
employment relations.
   (B)   Entering into a collective bargaining agreement shall not obviate the
duty to bargain in good faith during the term of the collective bargaining
agreement regarding changes to wages, hours, and all other terms and conditions
of employment, unless it can be demonstrated that the parties clearly and
unmistakably waived the right to bargain regarding those subjects. However, no
party may be required, by this provision, to renegotiate the existing terms of
collective bargaining agreements already in place.
   (C)   In regard to the Public Employees Retirement Act, being NMSA §§ 10-11-
1 et seq., the county in a written collective bargaining agreement may agree to
assume any portion of a public employee’s contribution obligation to retirement
programs provided pursuant to the Public Employees Retirement Act. Such
agreements are subject to the limitations set forth in this section.
   (D)   The obligation to bargain collectively shall not be construed as
authorizing the county and an exclusive representative to enter into an
agreement that is in conflict with the provisions of any other statute of this
state; provided, however, that a collective bargaining agreement that provides
greater rights, remedies, and procedures to public employees than contained in
a state statute shall not be considered to be in conflict with that state
statute. In the event of an actual conflict between the provisions of any other
statute of this state and an agreement entered into by the public employer and
the exclusive representative in collective bargaining, the statutes of this
state shall prevail.
   (E)   Payroll deduction of the exclusive representative’s membership dues
shall be a mandatory subject of bargaining if either party chooses to negotiate
the issue. The amount of dues shall be certified in writing by an official of
the labor organization and shall not include special assessments, penalties, or
fines of any type shall honor payroll deductions until the authorization is
revoked, in writing, by the public employee in accordance with the negotiated
agreement and this division (E), and for so long as the labor organization is
certified as the exclusive representative. Public employees who have authorized
the payroll deduction of dues to a labor organization may revoke that
authorization by providing written notice to their labor organization during a
window period not to exceed ten days per year for each employee, and the labor
organization shall negotiate when the commencement of that period will begin
annually for each employee. If no agreement is reached, the period shall be
during the ten days following the anniversary date of each employee’s
employment. Within ten days of receipt of notice from a public employee of
revocation of authorization for the payroll deduction of dues, the labor
organization shall provide notice to the public employer of a public employee’s
revocation of that authorization. A public employee’s notice of revocation for
the payroll deduction of dues shall be effective on the thirtieth day after the
notice provided to the public employer by the labor organization. No authorized
payroll deduction of dues held by the county or a labor organization on July 1,
2020, shall be rendered invalid by this provision and shall remain valid until
replaced or revoked by the public employee. During the time that a board
certification is in effect for a particular appropriate bargaining unit, the
public employer shall not deduct dues for any other labor organization.
   (F)   The county and a labor organization, or their employees or agents, are
not liable for, and have a complete defense to, any claims or actions under the
law of this state for requiring, deducting, receiving or retaining fair share
dues or fees from public employees, and current or former public employees do
not have standing to pursue these claims or actions if the fair share dues or
fees were permitted at the time under the laws of this state then in force and
paid, through payroll deduction or otherwise, on or before June 27, 2018. This
division (F):
      (1)   Applies to all claims and actions pending on July 1, 2020, and to
claims and actions filed on or after July 1, 2020; and
      (2)   Shall not be interpreted to infer that any relief made unavailable
by this section would otherwise be available.
   (G)   An impasse resolution or an agreement provision by the county and an
exclusive representative that requires the expenditure of funds shall be
contingent upon the specific appropriation of funds by the appropriate
governing body and the availability of funds. An agreement provision by a local
school board and an exclusive representative that requires the expenditure of
funds shall be contingent upon ratification by the appropriate governing body.
An arbitration decision shall not require the re-appropriation of funds.
   (H)   An agreement shall include a grievance procedure to be used for the
settlement of disputes pertaining to employment terms and conditions and
related personnel matters. The grievance procedure shall provide for a final
and binding determination. The final determination shall constitute an
arbitration award within the meaning of the Uniform Arbitration Act, being NMSA
§§ 44-7A-1 et seq.; such award shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to
the standard set forth in the Uniform Arbitration Act. The costs of an
arbitration proceeding conducted pursuant to this division (H) shall be shared
equally by the parties.
   (I)   The following meetings shall be closed:
      (1)   Meetings for the discussion of bargaining strategy preliminary to
collective bargaining negotiations between the county and the exclusive
representative of the public employees of the county;
      (2)   Collective bargaining sessions; and
      (3)   Consultations and impasse resolution procedures, at which the
public employer and the exclusive representative of the appropriate bargaining
unit are present.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.027 IMPASSE RESOLUTION.
   (A)   The following impasse procedures shall be followed by the county and
exclusive representatives:
      (1)   If an impasse occurs, either party may request from the Labor
Management Relations Board that a mediator be assigned to the negotiations
unless the parties can agree on a mediator. A mediator with the federal
mediation and conciliation service shall be assigned by the Labor Management
Relations Board to assist negotiations unless the parties agree to another
mediator.
      (2)   (a)   If the impasse continues after a 30-day mediation period,
either party may request a list of seven arbitrators from the federal mediation
and conciliation service. One arbitrator shall be chosen by the parties by
alternately striking names from such list. Who strikes first shall be
determined by coin toss. The arbitrator shall render a final, binding, written
decision resolving unresolved issues pursuant to this subchapter and the
Uniform Arbitration Act, being NMSA §§ 44-7A-1 et seq., no later than 30 days
after the arbitrator has been notified of selection by the parties. The
arbitrator’s decision shall be limited to a selection of one of the two
parties’ complete, last, best offer.
         (b)   The costs of an arbitrator and the arbitrator’s related costs
conducted pursuant to this division (A) shall be shared equally by the parties.
Each party shall be responsible for bearing the cost of presenting its case.
The decision shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the standard set
forth in the Uniform Arbitration Act.
   (B)   The county may enter into a written agreement with the exclusive
representative setting forth an alternative impasse resolution procedure.
   (C)   (1)   In the event that an impasse continues after the expiration of a
contract, the existing contract will continue in full force and effect until it
is replaced by a subsequent written agreement.
      (2)   However, this shall not require the county to increase any
employees’ levels, steps, or grades of compensation contained in the existing
contract.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.028 EMPLOYERS; PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   The county or its representative shall not:
   (A)   Discriminate against an employee with regard to terms and conditions
of employment because of the employee’s membership in a labor organization;
   (B)   Interfere with, restrain, or coerce any employee in the exercise of
any right guaranteed under this subchapter or use public funds to influence the
decision of its employees or the employees of its subcontractors, regarding
whether to support or oppose a labor organization that represents or seeks to
represent those employees, or whether to become a member of any labor
organization; provided, however, that this division (B) does not apply to
activities performed or expenses incurred:
      (1)   Addressing a grievance or negotiating or administering a collective
bargaining agreement;
      (2)   Allowing a labor organization or its representatives access to the
county facilities or properties;
      (3)   Performing an activity required by federal or state law or by a
collective bargaining agreement;
      (4)   Negotiating, entering into, or carrying out an agreement with a
labor organization;
      (5)   Paying wages to a represented employee while the employee is
performing duties if the payment is permitted under a collective bargaining
agreement; and
      (6)   Representing the county in a proceeding before the Board or a local
board, or in a judicial review of that proceeding.
   (C)   Dominate or interfere in the formation, existence, or administration
of a labor organization;
   (D)   Discriminate in regard to hiring, tenure, or a term or condition of
employment in order to encourage or discourage membership in a labor
organization;
   (E)   Discharge or otherwise discriminate against a public employee because
the employee has signed or filed an affidavit, petition, grievance, or
complaint, or given information or testimony pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter, or because a public employee is forming, joining, or choosing to be
represented by a labor organization;
   (F)   Refuse to bargain collectively in good faith with the exclusive
representative;
   (G)   Refuse or fail to comply with a provision of this subchapter or Board
rule;
   (H)   Refuse or fail to comply with a collective bargaining agreement; or
   (I)   Negotiate issues which are the subject of negotiations or make any
offer, commitment, or promise whatsoever to employees or the exclusive
representative, other than through the appointed negotiating team. It is the
intent of this language that the integrity of the negotiating process be
maintained. All negotiations and concessions shall occur only between the
respective appointed negotiating teams.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.029 EMPLOYEES; LABOR ORGANIZATIONS, PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   An employee, a labor organization, or its representative shall not:
   (A)   Discriminate against an employee with regard to labor organization
membership because of race, color, religion, creed, age, disability, sex, or
national origin;
   (B)   Solicit membership for an employee or labor organization during the
employee’s duty hours. This does not include the work breaks or lunch periods;
   (C)   Restrain or coerce any employee in the exercise of any right
guaranteed by the provisions of this subchapter;
   (D)   Refuse to bargain collectively in good faith with the employer;
   (E)   Refuse or fail to comply with any collective bargaining agreement with
the employer. This issue is subject to the required negotiated grievance
procedure negotiated by the parties;
   (F)   Refuse or fail to comply with any provision of this subchapter;
   (G)   Picket homes or private businesses of employees, appointed
individuals, or elected officials of the county;
   (H)   Restrain or coerce the employer in the selection of its agent for
bargaining; or
   (I)   (1)   Negotiate issues which are the subject of negotiations, or make
any offer, commitment, or promise whatsoever to the public employer, other than
through the appointed negotiating team. It is the intent of this language that
the integrity of the negotiating process be maintained.
      (2)   All negotiations and concessions shall occur only between the
respective appointed negotiating teams.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.030 STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS.
   (A)   No employee or labor organization shall engage in a strike. No labor
organization shall cause, instigate, encourage, or support a strike. The
employer shall not cause, instigate, or engage in an employee lockout.
   (B)   The employer may apply to the District Court for injunctive relief to
end a strike, and an exclusive representative of public employees affected by a
lockout may apply to the District Court for injunctive relief to end a lockout.
   (C)   (1)   The Labor Management Relations Board, upon a clear and
convincing showing of proof at a hearing that a labor organization directly
caused or instigated an employee strike, may impose appropriate penalties on
that labor organization, up to and including decertification of the labor
organization with respect to any of its bargaining units which struck as a
result of such causation or instigation.
      (2)   A STRIKE means an employee’s refusal, in concerted action with
other employees, to report for duty or his or her willful absence or
withholding of service in whole or in part from the full, faithful, and proper
performance of the duties of employment for the purpose of inducing,
influencing, or coercing a change in the working conditions, compensation,
rights, privileges, or obligations of employment.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.031 AGREEMENTS VALID; ENFORCEMENT.
   All collective bargaining agreements, and other agreements between the
employer and an exclusive representative, are valid and enforceable according
to their terms when entered into, in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
§ 31.032 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT; STANDARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   The Board may request the District Court to enforce any order issued
pursuant to this subchapter, including those for appropriate temporary relief
and restraining orders. The Court shall consider the request for enforcement on
the record made before the Board. The court shall uphold the action of the
Board and take appropriate action to enforce it unless the court concludes that
the order is:
      (1)   Arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion;
      (2)   Not supported by substantial evidence on the record considered as a
whole; or
      (3)   Otherwise not in accordance with law.
   (B)   (1)   Any person or party, including any labor organization, affected
by a final regulation, order, or decision of the Board, may appeal to the
District Court for further relief. All such appeals shall be based upon the
record made at the Board hearing.
      (2)   All such appeals to the District Court shall be taken within 30
calendar days of the date of the final regulation, order, or decision of the
Board. Actions taken by the Board shall be affirmed unless the Court concludes
that the action is:
         (a)   Arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion;
         (b)   Not supported by substantial evidence on the record taken as a
whole; or
         (c)   Otherwise not in accordance with law.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-10-2020)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.045 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and re-established, as set forth below, the County
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 29, passed 6-14-1996)
Editorial note:
   The county does not currently have a Planning Commission; this subchapter
has been left in for posterity, but may be removed at the discretion of the
county.
§ 31.046 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Planning Commission shall be to carry out and promote
county planning as provided by NMSA § 4-57-2, including all matters necessary
and incidental thereto.
(Ord. 29, passed 6-14-1996)
§ 31.047 JURISDICTION.
   The territorial jurisdiction of such Planning Commission shall be the
county, except for those matters involving concurrent jurisdiction with
adjacent counties of municipalities as provided by law.
(Ord. 29, passed 6-14-1996)
§ 31.048 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall have those powers and duties conferred
by the laws of the state, together with such necessary incidental powers as are
specifically provided by this subchapter or subsequent planning ordinance that
may be enacted by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   All public officials shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning
Commission, within a reasonable time, such available information as it may
require for its operation. In general, the Planning Commission shall have all
powers as may be necessary to enable it to fulfill and perform its functions,
or carry out all purposes of the law.
(Ord. 29, passed 6-14-1996)
§ 31.049 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of a minimum of not less than
seven members who shall be residents of the county.
   (B)   Planning Commission members should be qualified by training and
experience to exercise sound and practical judgment on county planning matters.
   (C)   Members shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners to
serve at the discretion of the Board, and may be removed at any time without
cause.
   (D)   Members shall serve staggered terms as follows: Seven members serving
two-year staggered terms.
(Ord. 29, passed 6-14-1996)
§ 31.050 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Planning Commission shall serve without compensation. Actual
expenses incurred by any member shall be reimbursed in accordance with the
Mileage and Per Diem Act, being NMSA §§ 10-8-1 et seq., and approved by the
Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 29, passed 6-14-1996)
§ 31.051 CHAIRPERSON.
   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its members for
a term of one year and may fill such other of its offices as it may create in a
manner prescribed by parliamentary or other rules which may be adopted by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 29, passed 6-14-1996)
§ 31.052 EMPLOYEES.
   The county employees may, from time to time, be assigned to assist in the
work of the Planning Commission, but employment at the county’s expense of
special employees or consultants, hired specifically for aid in the work of the
Planning Commission, may be engaged only upon the express authorization of the
county.
(Ord. 29, passed 6-14-1996)
§ 31.053 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall hold regular meetings and special
meetings as required, and shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business
and keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and
determinations.
   (B)   All meetings of the Planning Commission shalt comply with the State
Open Meetings Act, being NMSA §§ 10-15-1 et seq.
(Ord. 29, passed 6-14-1996)
§ 31.054 QUORUM.
   A majority of Planning Commission members must be present at duly called
meetings to constitute a quorum for conducting Planning Commission business.
(Ord. 29, passed 6-14-1996)
§ 31.055 RECORD OF MEETING.
   A written transcript or tape recording of all proceedings before the
Planning Commission shall be submitted to the Board of County Commissioners
within ten days of the date any meeting of such Planning Commission is held.
(Ord. 29, passed 6-14-1996)
CODE REVISER
§ 31.070 COUNTY CODE REVISER.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners shall designate the County Code
Reviser.
   (B)   The County Code Reviser shall compile the ordinances and resolutions
and of the county into titles, chapters, subchapters, and sections without
substantial change or alteration of purpose or intent.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-10-2020)
Editorial note:
   The county does not currently employ a County Code Reviser; this subchapter
has been left in for posterity, but may be removed at the discretion of the
county.
§ 31.071 CODIFICATION, REVISION OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS.
   Subject to such general policies as may be promulgated by the Board of
County Commissioners and to the general supervision of the Board of County
Commissioners, the reviser shall:
   (A)   Codify for consolidation into the county code all ordinances and
resolutions of a general and permanent nature from and after the passage of
this subchapter, resolved or adopted by the Board of County Commissioners and
assign permanent numbers to all new titles, chapters, subchapters, and sections
so added to the code;
   (B)   Edit and revise such ordinances and resolutions for such consolidation
to the extent deemed necessary or desirable by the Reviser and without changing
the meaning of any such ordinance, in the following respects only:
      (1)   Make capitalization uniform with that generally followed in the
code;
      (2)   Make chapter or section division and subdivision designations
uniform with that followed in the code;
      (3)   Substitute for the term “this ordinance,” where necessary, the term
“section,” “article,” “chapter,” “subchapter,” “title,” or “code,” or reference
to specific section or chapter numbers, as the code may require;
      (4)   Substitute for reference to a section of an ordinance the proper
code section number reference;
      (5)   Substitute for “as provided for in the preceding section,” and
other phrases of similar import, the proper code section number references;
      (6)   Substitute the proper calendar date for “effective date of this
act” and other phrases of similar import;
      (7)   Strike out figures where merely a repetition of written words, and
substitute, where deemed advisable for uniformity, written words for figures;
      (8)   Rearrange the order of sections of ordinances and resolutions,
incorporate any omitted material as well as correct manifest errors in
spelling, and manifest clerical or typographical errors or errors by way of
additions or omissions;
      (9)   Correct obvious and apparent errors that are not substantive in
references by chapter or section number to other laws;
      (10)   Correct obvious and apparent errors in numbering or renumbering
sections of the code;
      (11)   Divide long sections into two or more sections and rearrange the
order of sections to conform to such logical arrangement of subject matter as
may most generally be followed in the code when to do so will not change the
meaning or effect of such sections;
      (12)   Change the wording of the section captions, if any, and provide
captions to new sections and chapters; and
      (13)   Strike provisions apparently obsolete.
   (C)   Create new code titles, chapters, subchapters, and sections of the
county code, or otherwise revise the title, chapter, subchapter, and sectional
organization of the code, as may be required from time to time, to effectuate
the orderly and logical arrangement of the code.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 31.072 OMISSION OF CERTAIN SECTIONS OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   The Reviser may omit from the code all titles to ordinances and
resolutions, enacting and repealing clauses, preambles, declarations of
emergency, and validity and construction sections unless, in a particular
instance, it may be necessary to retain such to preserve the full intent of the
law.
   (B)   The omission of validity or construction sections is not intended to,
nor shall it change, or be considered as changing, the effect to be given
thereto in construing ordinances of which such validity or construction were a
part.
   (C)   Any section so omitted, other than repealing, emergency, or validity
provisions, shall be referred to or set forth as an annotation to the
applicable sections of the ordinance as codified.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 31.073 CODE INDEX.
   The Reviser shall compile and thereafter maintain a comprehensive index and,
from time to time, prepare for publication supplements thereto.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 31.074 CODE TABLES.
    The Reviser shall prepare and maintain full historical records showing the
enactment, amendment, revision, supersession, and repeal of the various
sections of the code.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 31.075 INCLUSION OF LOCAL RULES OF THE COUNTY MAGISTRATE COURT.
   The Reviser may provide for inclusion in the code of the local rules of the
County Magistrate Court.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 31.076 IMPROVEMENT OF STATUTES.
   (A)   The Code Reviser shall, from time to time, make written
recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners concerning deficiencies,
conflicts, or obsolete provisions in, and need for reorganization or revision
of the ordinances and resolutions, and shall prepare for submission to the
Board of County Commissioners ordinances and resolutions for the correction or
removal of such deficiencies, conflicts, or obsolete provisions, or to
otherwise improve the form or substance of any ordinance of the county as the
public interest or the administration of the subject may require.
   (B)   Such or similar projects may be undertaken at the request of the Board
of County Commissioners or other county agencies and departments if such
undertaking will not impede the other functions of the Reviser.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 31.077 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS PROVIDED TO THE REVISER.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions submitted to the Board of County
Commissioners shall, in addition to any other requirements, contain:
      (1)   A title reflecting the subject matter of the ordinance;
      (2)   The date at which the ordinance shall become effective if passed;
and
      (3)   (a)   A final paragraph next below the Commission member’s
signatures reading as follows:
 
This ordinance/resolution has/has not been codified as Luna County Code of
Ordinances on the ___ day of ___, 20___.
 
         (b)   Immediately following this paragraph, there shall be a signature
line under which shall be the title “County Code Reviser.”
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners shall cause to be made two duplicate
originals of all ordinances and resolutions passed. One of the two such
duplicate originals shall be immediately forwarded to the Code Reviser and the
second would be recorded with the County Clerk and subsequently forwarded to
the County Code Reviser.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 31.078 SPECIFICATIONS FOR CODE PUBLICATION; CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Code Reviser shall formulate specifications relative to the
format, size, contents, indexing, and general scope and character of footnotes
and annotations, if any, for any publication for general use of the code and
supplements. No such publication, or the contents thereof, other than such
temporary edition as may be authorized by the Board of County Commissioners,
shall be received as evidence of the ordinances and resolutions of this county
unless it complies with the specifications of the Code Reviser as are current
at the time of publication, including compliance with the section numbering
adopted by the Reviser. If a publication complies with such specifications, the
Code Reviser shall furnish a certificate of compliance to the publisher.
   (B)   Upon request of any publisher in good faith interested in publishing
the code, the Code Reviser shall furnish a copy of the current specifications
and shall not, during the process of any bona fide publication of said code or
supplement thereto, modify any such specifications, if such modification would
result in added expense or material inconvenience to the publisher, without
written concurrence therein by such publisher.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 31.079 CODE DEEMED OFFICIAL IF CERTIFIED.
   The county code and any supplement or addition thereto or reprint edition
thereof which contains the certificate of the Code Reviser referred will be
deemed official and shall be prima facie evidence of the ordinances and
resolutions contained therein.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-10-2020)
CHAPTER 32: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
County Security Force
   
32.01   Members
   
32.02   Supervision
   
32.03   Personnel rules
   
32.04   Retirement benefits
   
32.05   Uniforms
COUNTY SECURITY FORCE
§ 32.01 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The County Security Force shall consist of certified peace officers in
the state, and they shall have all of the authority, duty, and obligations
pertaining to arrest, and maintenance of the public peace, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   All officers shall be assigned to the County Detention Facility.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-12-2001)
§ 32.02 SUPERVISION.
   (A)   The County Security Force shall be supervised by the Detention Center
Director, or designee. The size of the County Security Force and personnel
employed as Security Force officers shall not exceed 10% of the workforce.
   (B)   The County Manager shall, with the approval of the Commissioners,
establish and promulgate job descriptions, qualifications, staffing
requirements, and compensation for Security Force officers.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-12-2001)
§ 32.03 PERSONNEL RULES.
   All persons employed under this subchapter shall be subject to the personnel
rules and contractual requirements of the County Personnel Policy.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-12-2001)
§ 32.04 RETIREMENT BENEFITS.
   Any County Security Force officer shall be eligible for all retirement
benefits available to any other peace officer pursuant to the laws of the
state.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-12-2001)
§ 32.05 UNIFORMS.
   County Security Force officers shall perform their regular duties in
uniforms and with peace officer badges as approved by the county.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-12-2001)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND FEES
Section
Fees
   
33.01   Adoption of fees
   
33.02   Future amendments
Real Property Gifts
   
33.15   General
   
33.16   Procedure to accept real property gifts
   
33.17   Final acceptance
   
33.18   Appeal
FEES
§ 33.01 ADOPTION OF FEES.
   All fees and charges are in effect as of the date of adoption by resolution
of the schedule of fees and shall remain in effect unless otherwise modified,
and are hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. 102, passed 4-8-2021)
§ 33.02 FUTURE AMENDMENTS.
   It is intended that the fees, charges, and rates will be reviewed
periodically by the County Manager and the Board of County Commissioners.
Accordingly, some or all of the provisions of the schedule of fees resolution
may be amended from time to time. Each provision of the schedule of fees
resolution will remain in full force and effect unless otherwise expressly
provided or expressly amended by subsequent resolution, in which case the
amended provision will be immediately effective.
(Ord. 102, passed 4-8-2021)
REAL PROPERTY GIFTS
§ 33.15 GENERAL.
   The county shall consider accepting title to real property as a gift if the
donated real property can be sold to realize its cash value, if it can be held
for future sale, or if the property is located in an area where the real
property may be used to meet the operational needs of the county government.
(Ord. 101, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 33.16 PROCEDURE TO ACCEPT REAL PROPERTY GIFTS.
   (A)   The process of establishing county interest in accepting a gift of
real estate shall begin once the following information is provided to the
Planning Department:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number, e-mail address, and signature
of the proposed donor submitted on the application and checklist for accepting
property donations;
      (2)   A statement of the reasons for the donor’s desire to make the gift;
      (3)   A general description of the property, including the exact
location, any structures (above- and below ground), past uses of the property,
location characteristics, and/or pictures;
      (4)   Proof of the donor’s ownership of the property in the form of a
copy of the donor’s deed to the real property. If the owner of record of the
real property is deceased, a copy of the court’s appointment of the donor/
applicant as personal representative/executor of the estate will be required;
      (5)   A statement as to whether the contribution is of the donor’s
complete or partial interest in the property. The county will not accept as a
gift a partial, fractional, or minority interest in real property;
      (6)   A list of any personal property to be included with the gift; and
      (7)   Copies of the current property tax bills and special assessment
bills. Applicants will be required to satisfy the tax debt on the real
property. NMSA § 7-38-37 provides that taxes owed remain the personal
obligation of the owner even after the owner sells or donates the property.
   (B)   (1)   If, based on the information obtained in control, it is
determined by the Planning Department that the county will not benefit from the
real property, the Planning Department shall inform the donor, in writing, that
the county rejects the donation.
      (2)   If the Planning Department determines, based on the information
obtained in control, that the county may potentially benefit from this donation
of real property, the following additional steps will be followed by county
departments before the donation is finalized:
         (a)   A recent legal description and survey of the property showing
any easements and rights-of-way, an up-to-date appraisal report, and a chain of
title report, if necessary, will be provided by the Assessor’s office. A ten-
year tax search will be provided by the Treasurer’s office;
         (b)   A site inspection for potential environmental hazards by Code
Enforcement Department; and
         (c)   The Planning Department reserves the right to request additional
information from the donor as determined necessary for the administrative
review.
   (C)   If after review the Planning Department finds that accepting the
property would be in the county’s best interest, the Planning Department may,
at its discretion, accept the real property on behalf of the Board.
(Ord. 101, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 33.17 FINAL ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   If the Planning Department accepts property, the donor must transfer
the real property by warranty deed to the county within 90 days of the vote or
the acceptance will be considered null and void. The county will not accept a
quit claim deed.
   (B)   (1)   The executed final deed will be recorded in the Clerk’s office,
thus finalizing the transaction. If the Planning Department elects not to
accept the donation, the Planning Department shall inform the donor, in
writing, that the county rejects the donation.
      (2)   The donor is subject to and required to pay the taxes for the
current year in which the transfer was completed. The county will be
responsible for the taxes for subsequent years. No real property shall be
considered accepted or owned by the county unless it is formally accepted
pursuant to this resolution or by other formal acceptance by the Board of
County Commissioners.
(Ord. 101, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 33.18 APPEAL.
   Upon the receipt of a letter of denial, a potential donor may request the
denial to be re-considered at a regular meeting of the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 101, passed 11-14-2022)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Property tax payments
Tax Obligation for Land Transfers
   
34.15   Short title
   
34.16   Purpose
   
34.17   Definitions
   
34.18   Issuance of certificate
Tax Sale Property Emancipation
   
34.30   General
   
34.31   Procedure for purchasing at tax sale
Taxation
   
34.45   Sales tax
   
34.46   Fire protection excise tax
   
34.47   Lodger’s tax
   
34.48   Taxes on gross tax receipts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 PROPERTY TAX PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Title and authority. This section may be cited as the “Luna County
Single Payment Property Tax Ordinance” or “this section,” and is adopted
pursuant to NMSA § 4-37-1 (being Laws of 1975, Chapter 312) and NMSA § 7-38-38
(being Laws of 1983, Chapter 216).
   (B)   Declaration of purpose. NMSA § 7-37-38 authorizes a Board of County
Commissioners to provide by ordinance that property taxes under $10 are due and
payable in a single payment on November 5 of the year in which the tax bill was
prepared and mailed. It is therefore the purpose of this section to establish
for 1983 and subsequent tax years that property taxes under $10 shall be due
and payable in such single payment.
   (C)   Payment of property taxes. For the 1983 property tax year and all
subsequent property tax years, until changes are required by law or amendment
of this section, property taxes under $10 are due and payable in a single
payment on November 5 of the year in which the tax bill was prepared and
mailed.
(Ord. 7, passed 7-14-1983)
TAX OBLIGATION FOR LAND TRANSFERS
§ 34.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and be cited as the “Luna County Tax
Obligation for Land Divisions and/or Combinations” or “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 76, passed 7-13-2023)
§ 34.16 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The County Assessor is charged with the responsibility of maintaining
current records of property tax assessments. The division of land and
combination of land within the county impedes the Assessor’s ability to
maintain current records of property tax assessments when map code numbers are
assigned to parcels prior to the payment of past due and prepaid property
taxes.
   (B)   Therefore, it is deemed that any lot split, combination, or any other
division or combination of land within the county will only be made on the
Assessor’s records through or by the assignment of the County Assessor’s map
code identification numbers, after the applicant or developer shall have first
obtained a certificate of taxes paid issued by the County Treasurer’s office
establishing that any existing property tax obligations on the land to be
divided or combined are currently paid.
   (C)   Upon request for a certificate of taxes paid, during the current tax
year and when tax rates have not been set or tax bills mailed, payment of taxes
shall be based on the prior tax year’s tax rate and will constitute full
payment of the taxes for the year during which the certificate is issued.
(Ord. 76, passed 7-13-2023)
§ 34.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMBINATIONS OF LAND.
      (1)   Two or more assessments (notices of value) combined for the
convenience of the property owner or the Assessor’s office.
      (2)   Example: same property owner owns two subdivision lots adjacent to
each other and wishes to receive only one assessment from the Assessor’s
office.
   DIVISION OF LAND.
      (1)   Real property broken down into one or more smaller parcels.
      (2)   These divisions of land can be in smaller parcels than defined in
Chapter 156, but cannot be developed or improved on unless Chapter 156 and the
building permit code requirements have been met.
(Ord. 76, passed 7-13-2023)
§ 34.18 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   In order for a certificate of taxes paid to be issued, all property
taxes due or to become due on the land to be divided or combined, for the
current tax year or any past tax years, must be paid in full to the County
Treasurer.
   (B)   If certificates are requested pursuant to this section for the paid
tax year and tax rates have not yet been set or tax bill have not yet been
mailed, the Assessor shall determine taxes due on the basis of the prior year’s
tax rates. This will constitute full payment of the taxes on the real property
for the current tax year.
   (C)   The Assessor’s office will require a five-business day processing
period prior to the issuance of the certificate of taxes paid.
   (D)   In addition, any property owner transferring ownership during the tax
year has the option of pre-paying property taxes for the current year.
(Ord. 76, passed 7-13-2023)
TAX SALE PROPERTY EMANCIPATION
§ 34.30 GENERAL.
   The county shall consider bidding real property from the State Taxation and
Revenue, Delinquent Property Tax Bureau, tax auction if it can be held for
future sale or if the property is located in an area where the real properly
may be used to meet the operational needs of the county government (including
to be held for possible bundling with other properties for future sales).
(Ord. 103, passed 4-8-2021)
§ 34.31 PROCEDURE FOR PURCHASING AT TAX SALE.
   (A)   Controls.
      (1)   Establishing county interest. The process of establishing the
county interest is the development of an account of interested properties sent
to the State Taxation and Revenue, Delinquent Tax Bureau:
         (a)   The account will be developed by a panel consisting of, but not
limited to, a representative from the County Assessor’s office and the County
Planning Department;
         (b)   A greater number of parcels within the account should be
localized within one to two sections, townships, and ranges. Properties outside
the selected section, township, and range may be purchased; however, it should
be minimized for administrative and planning purposes;
         (c)   A general description of the property, including the exact
location, any structures (above- and below ground), past uses of the property,
location characteristics;
         (d)   Copies of current property tax bills and special assessment
bills; and
         (e)   Properties that have been inventoried by Taxation and Revenue,
Delinquent Tax Bureau for auction may be purchased by the county by using the
controls set forth.
      (2)   Approval by County Manager. The account in Control 1 must be
approved by the County Manager and the Budget and Procurement Director of the
county.
      (3)   Setting a standard bid amount. The county is establishing a
standard bid amount of 4% of taxable valuation set by the Assessor.
   (B)   Request for sale. The account, along with a request for sale, will be
forwarded to the State Taxation and Revenue, Delinquent Property Tax Bureau for
future sale.
   (C)   Non-competition clause. The spirit of this policy is to emancipate
properties within the financial means of the county. No other valid bids must
be made on the property to validate the purchase made by the county.
(Ord. 103, passed 4-8-2021)
TAXATION
§ 34.45 SALES TAX.
   The county’s sale tax, and any and all amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 84-8, passed 11-6-1984)
§ 34.46 FIRE PROTECTION EXCISE TAX.
   The county’s fire protection excise tax, and any and all amendments thereto,
are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 61, passed 10-27-2005)
§ 34.47 LODGER’S TAX.
   The county’s lodger’s tax, and any and all amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-14-2023)
§ 34.48 TAXES ON GROSS TAX RECEIPTS.
   The county’s tax on gross tax receipts, and any and all amendments thereto,
are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 27, passed 1-10-1995; Ord. 55, passed 11-5-2004; Ord. 60, passed 12-29-
2006; Ord. 65, passed 2-1-2007; Ord. 66, passed 2-1-2007; Ord. 92, passed 2-17-
2015)
CHAPTER 35: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
Naming of County-Owned Property
   
35.001   Purpose
   
35.002   Initial procedure for naming requests
   
35.003   Action on requests
   
35.004   Factors for consideration of requests
County Facility Usage
   
35.015   Purpose
   
35.016   Policy
   
35.017   Conflicts
   
35.018   Definitions
   
35.019   County space designated for public, non-governmental usages
   
35.020   Permitting process
   
35.021   Terms, conditions
   
35.022   Prohibitions on uses
Land Use, Natural Resources
   
35.035   Land Use Policy adopted
   
35.036   Natural Resource Planning and Review Process adopted
Subdivision Policy and Procedures Manual
   
35.050   Adoption of Manual
   
35.051   Purpose of Manual
   
35.052   Authorization of Pilot Program
   
35.053   Amendment authority
   
35.054   Duration
Procurement Policy
   
35.065   Adoption of policy; amendments
Indigent Health Care Program Policy and Procedures
   
35.080   Introduction
   
35.081   Applicant and application
   
35.082   Indigent patient
   
35.083   Third-party liability
   
35.084   Other assistance programs
   
35.085   Residency
   
35.086   Assets
   
35.087   Income verification/computation
   
35.088   Small claims
   
35.089   Limitations on IHC payments
   
35.090   Patient/applicant responsibilities
   
35.091   Rights and duties of providers
   
35.092   IHC Staff responsibilities
   
35.093   Authority of the Board
   
35.094   Open Meetings Law
   
35.095   Appeals
NAMING OF COUNTY-OWNED PROPERTY
§ 35.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to the consideration of conferring a
specific name to any county owned or operated building, facility, or property,
excluding streets and roads.
   (B)   This subchapter shall also apply when preparing an official comment or
recommendation of the county to other entities, public or private. This
includes contemplating the naming or dedication of buildings, facilities, or
property owned or operated by an entity other than the county.
   (C)   COUNTY OWNED PROPERTY, included within the scope of this subchapter,
includes:
      (1)   Buildings and structures, including overpasses and bridges; and
      (2)   Real property, including open spaces, parks, and undeveloped or raw
land.
   (D)   This subchapter shall not apply to historically registered properties
for which a name has been indicated on a nomination form or accepted for use on
any historic register.
   (E)   This subchapter shall not apply to public art installations that have
been commissioned and/or accessioned with a title that serves as the name of
the artwork.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-27-2022)
§ 35.002 INITIAL PROCEDURE FOR NAMING REQUESTS.
   (A)   Requests to name or rename county owned property must be in writing
and submitted to the County Clerk for consideration by the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (B)   Any county resident, property owner, business operator, or elected
official representing any part of the county may submit a request to name or
rename county owned property.
   (C)   Requests shall include:
      (1)   Map illustrating the property that is the subject of the request;
      (2)   The name of any existing place, street, facility, or property
affected by the request or similar in name;
      (3)   Any common usage names, nicknames for the subject property, as well
as any nearby topographical, geological, or archaeological landmarks;
      (4)   An overview of any public outreach or support for the request;
      (5)   A statement explaining the reason or basis for the request, and
historic, cultural, community, or other significance of the request;
      (6)   Statements of support or endorsement of the request;
      (7)   An overview of any opposition or criticism of the request; and
      (8)   A description of any plans, promotions, advertising, signage,
markers, plaques, and the like anticipated or planned by the sponsor of the
request.
   (D)   Upon receipt, the County Clerk will deliver the request to the Board
of County Commissioners at the County Manager’s office.
   (E)   (1)   Within 30 days of delivery, the County Manager, or designee,
will review the request for completeness and notify the sponsor:
         (a)   The request is complete and has been accepted;
         (b)   The request is not complete, listing the deficiencies, and has
been rejected and returned to the sponsor; or
         (c)   Additional information is requested regarding the request or its
sponsor.
      (2)   Deficiencies or requests for additional information must be
resolved within 30 days or the request will be deemed denied.
   (F)   Accepted requests will be forwarded to the County Historical Society
for review and comment on the historical, cultural, or community significance
and propriety of the request. The analysis and review shall be submitted to the
Board of County Commissioners within 60 days as a non-binding recommendation
regarding disposition of the request.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-27-2022)
§ 35.003 ACTION ON REQUESTS.
   (A)   After expiration of 60 days from submission to or upon receipt of the
non-binding recommendation from the County Historical Society, a public hearing
for consideration of the request shall be scheduled before the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (B)   Notice and hearing shall be in substantially the same manner as the
approval of ordinances.
(NMSA §§ 4-37-6 and 4-37-7)
   (C)   Prior to or at the public hearing on the request, any county resident,
property owner, business operator, or elected official representing any part of
the county may submit a public comment in writing at the County Manager’s
office or at the public hearing.
   (D)   All public comments shall be compiled and made part of the record of
the public hearing prior to the vote of the Board of County Commissioners.
   (E)   After due consideration of the request, recommendation from the County
Historical Society and all public comments, the Board of County Commissioners,
in its discretion, may vote to accept, reject, modify, or remand the
recommendation for additional information, comments, or other requested action.
   (F)   Once approved, changes to the name or dedication of any county owned
property is strongly discouraged and may only be granted when a material and
substantial change in circumstances since the approval of the initial request
or the discovery of previously unknown adverse information that materially and
substantially affects the previously granted approval.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-27-2022)
§ 35.004 FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION OF REQUESTS.
   When considering the merits of a request to name or rename county owned
property, the Board of County Commissioners shall consider the following:
   (A)   Whether the proposed name is a duplication or creates a confusing
similarity to existing buildings, facilities, cities, or other named landmarks;
   (B)   For requests to rename or remove an existing name, the existence of a
material and substantial change in circumstances since the approval of the
initial request or the discovery of previously unknown adverse information that
materially and substantially affects the previously granted approval;
   (C)   For names of individuals, the honoree must have been deceased at least
one year prior to the request and contributed outstanding civic service to the
county resulting in the well-being and betterment of the county and its
citizens;
   (D)   Whether the proposed named is offensive, vulgar, inappropriate, or
culturally insensitive;
   (E)   The recommendation of the County Historical Society;
   (F)   The direct relation or contextual connection of the proposed name to
the county;
   (G)   Whether the proposed name is one of common usage or colloquial names
attached to the county owned property;
   (H)   Whether the proposed name is based on or related to a distinctive,
predominant, or defining natural or geological feature of the county;
   (I)   Absent a significant historical basis, proposed names must be secular
and/or non-partisan;
   (K)   Whether the proposed name is associated with a historically
significant event in the county;
   (L)   Whether the proposed name reflects broad historical patterns in the
county history;
   (M)   Whether the name is associated with the life or lives of persons of
historical significance in the county, past or present;
   (N)   Whether the name reflects a distinctive achievement in or connected to
the county;
   (O)   Whether the proposed name is connected to an individual or
organization significantly whom facilitated, donated, or bought the county
owned property to be named;
   (P)   If a portion, room, or something less than the entirety of a named
property is the subject of the request, whether the proposed name is consistent
with the overall name of the property;
   (Q)   Whether the proposed name is part of a larger coordinated and planned
effort supported by the community or another political subdivision;
   (R)   Whether the proposed name is consistent with use or purpose of the
subject property;
   (S)   Whether the proposed name engenders a positive public image and is not
unduly divisive or controversial; and
   (T)   Whether the proposed name is free of religious symbols or
connotations, partisan political symbols or connotations, and racist or
discriminatory symbols or connotations.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-27-2022)
COUNTY FACILITY USAGE
§ 35.015 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to address non-governmental and
public utilization and scheduling of space owned by the citizens of the county
which is controlled and operated by the Board of County Commissioners of the
county (“BOCC”). Certain county spaces designated by the BOCC as available for
public use may be used by members of the public or organizations as provided by
this rule and other applicable public safety rules.
   (B)   The county is a political subdivision of the state formed for the
purpose of governing the territory and inhabitants therein, and public usage of
the county space is subordinate to that purpose and all costs related to public
usage of the county space shall be paid by the user.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 35.016 POLICY.
   (A)   Applicability. This subchapter does not apply to the county, its
elected officials, employees, agents, or contractors within the regular course
and scope of their duties.
   (B)   Separate agreements. Users who have separate agreements, such as
leases, for county facilities shall be permitted to operate under said
agreements notwithstanding any provision in this subchapter to the contrary.
   (C)   Fees. Usage fees shall be established separately by the BOCC and shall
be calculated to cover the county’s costs associated with the public use of the
facility as well as appropriate security or cleaning deposits.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 35.017 CONFLICTS.
   In the event of conflict with other county ordinances or resolutions, the
provisions of this subchapter shall supersede other previously enacted
ordinances and resolutions unless otherwise stated herein.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 35.018 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICATION FEE. The non-refundable fee set by the BOCC that must be
submitted along with the facility use application for consideration and
approval of a public and/or non-governmental use of space.
   FACILITY USE APPLICATION. The document that must be completed and submitted,
along with the application fee, requesting permission and scheduling the use of
space.
   INDEMNITY COST. Any additional costs incurred by the county to insure
against or obtain indemnification by users, when necessary.
   LIABILITY COST. The cost of obtaining insurance coverage to cover approved
users and their use of space incurred by the BOCC, and which is paid by the
user.
   NON-GOVERNMENTAL USAGE. The use of space by anyone for a purpose not related
to the governance of the county, as determined by the BOCC, but does not
include exclusive rental or lease agreements between the BOCC and any third
party.
   PUBLIC EVENT. Any planned, organized, promoted, or encouraged gathering or
activity for a specific purpose held on, in, or at the county space by any user
or persons, or entities, not affiliated with the BOCC.
   PUBLIC SPACE or COUNTY PUBLIC SPACE. A specific type of space owned,
operated, or controlled by the BOCC and generally open for public use, such as
Courthouse Park and the County Skate Park.
   PUBLIC USAGE. Use of space by members of the public, external entities, and
other usage not by the county, its elected officials, employees, and agents,
but does not include exclusive rental or lease agreements between the BOCC and
any third party.
   PUBLIC USE PERMIT. A permit issued by or on behalf of the BOCC for the
exclusive use of the county space for a specified date and time.
   REFUNDABLE DEPOSIT. The amount paid by an approved user to ensure compliance
with applicable terms and conditions of use, including post-use cleaning, and
which is subject to forfeiture for material non-compliance with and terms or
condition of use.
   SITE FEE. The cost assessed and paid in advance by an approved user of
space.
   SPACE or COUNTY SPACE. Areas, both inside and out, property, buildings, and
structures owned, operated, or controlled by the Board of County Commissioners.
   TULIP. The Tenant Users Liability Insurance Coverage offered by the county’s
insurer to users covering their usage of space.
   USAGE FEE. All fees assessed for the approved use of space, and may include
an application fee, site fee, refundable deposit, liability cost, and
indemnification cost.
   USER. The person or entity approved for use of space.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 35.019 COUNTY SPACE DESIGNATED FOR PUBLIC, NON-GOVERNMENTAL USAGES.
   Subject to use by the county for governance purposes and BOCC approved
governmental uses, the following space is designated for public usage and non-
governmental usage:
   (A)   Mimbres Valley Special Events Center, with or without kitchen access;
   (B)   The County Courthouse Park:
      (1)   Pavilion;
      (2)   Gazebo;
      (3)   Outdoor restrooms; and
      (4)   Duck downs (south-east park area).
   (C)   Old train depot;
   (D)   Statmax Family Entertainment Center;
   (E)   MVLC Columbus;
   (F)   Courthouse office space;
   (G)   Park Plaza office space;
   (H)   VFD (substations):
      (1)   Florida Mountain;
      (2)   Sunshine; and
      (3)   Cooke’s Peak.
   (I)   County skate park; and
   (J)   Other facilities designated by the BOCC from time to time.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 35.020 PERMITTING PROCESS.
   (A)   Public use permits may vary greatly from facility to facility and will
be issued by the County Planning Department Monday through Friday during
regular business hours.
   (B)   In order to obtain a public use permit, users must first complete and
submit a facility use application along with any fees and supporting
documentation. The application is available from the County Planning Office.
   (C)   Public use permits are issued on a first come/first served basis, but
are subject to priority county use and will be issued no later than two working
days after receipt of a complete public use application.
   (D)   Prior to issuance of the public use permit, the user will be required
to perform a walkthrough of the facility to be used and an inventory and damage
notice signed by the user upon completion.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 35.021 TERMS, CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No space or county property may be used for any public event or
exclusive use without advance issuance of a public use permit by or on behalf
of the BOCC.
   (B)   All usage of space must comply with applicable laws, rules,
regulations, ordinances, and standards, including all those imposed by the
BOCC, and must be permitted as required by any agency or entity with
jurisdiction.
   (C)   Users, as identified on the public use application, will be
responsible for any damage to county facilities, equipment, or property
occurring during the use of the facility.
   (D)   Public events or other large-scale events on, in, or at the county
space will be subject to additional requirements, as determined by the BOCC, or
its designee, which may include security personnel, liability insurance, dram
shop liability coverage, set-up fees, cleaning fees, trash/disposal services,
and other considerations for the protection of public health, safety, and
welfare while on county property and for the protection of county personnel and
property.
   (E)   Public events will require security measures, as dictated by the BOCC,
which may include law enforcement presence, private security personnel,
controlled access, and secure or restricted areas.
   (F)   Public usage may also require additional measures, such as waste
disposal and parking plan/arrangements.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to compliance with all applicable statutes,
regulations, and the rules of the State Alcohol and Gaming Commission, public
events where licensed alcohol service or sales are allowed will require
controlled access to each alcohol sales/dispensing locations, and designated
security personnel at each sales/dispensing locations and each access point.
      (2)   Public events that may be attended by 50 or more persons, based on
venue size, ticketing, or reservations, will require the presence of at least
one security officer.
      (3)   Public events that may be attended by 100 or more persons, based on
venue size, ticketing or reservations, may require fenced enclosures for
outdoor events, security guards manned access control/entry points, pre-entry
screening, bag searches, medical personnel, traffic control, and parking lot
patrol.
   (H)   Additional relevant factors concerning the use of county property are
as follows:
      (1)   Venue location and proximity to sensitive locations, such as
residences, schools, churches, daycares, and the like;
      (2)   Venue amenities in use, such as kitchen, restrooms, multiple rooms,
and the like;
      (3)   Number and location of access points to the venue;
      (4)   Ticketed admission, open to the public admission and reserved
seating;
      (5)   Time of day/night of the public event;
      (6)   Length of public event;
      (7)   Presence of food or beverages, whether sold, served, or allowed in;
      (8)   Set-up and take-down time necessary;
      (9)   Presence of unattended minors or children;
      (10)   Necessity for traffic control and parking management;
      (11)   Affiliated or related events such as a parade, carnival, race, or
rally; and
      (12)   Anticipated presence of dangerous materials or weapons as part of
the event, such as firearms, cannons, explosives, fireworks, hazardous
chemicals, and livestock or other animals.
   (I)   Insurance shall be generally required for all facility users and
alcohol dispensers, but may be waived on a case-by-case basis based on a
determination that potential risks do not warrant requiring insurance.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 35.022 PROHIBITIONS ON USES.
   (A)   County public spaces, namely Courthouse Park and Duck Downs, and the
county skate park, are closed from 10:30 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. daily and, absent
a public use permit issued pursuant to this subchapter, it shall be illegal
(trespassing) for any person to enter or remain on these properties during
closed hours.
   (B)   No space, including, but not limited to, Courthouse Park, may be used
as a residence, a shelter for camping, overnight parking, or other occupancy at
any time and water, electricity, trash receptacles, and other amenities are
provided for users during permit hours and general public use during regular
county business hours.
   (C)   Loitering is also prohibited.
   (D)   All refuse must be placed in trash receptacles or packed out,
including animal feces.
   (E)   (1)   Use of county spaces without a public use permit is non-
exclusive and on a first come, first serve basis.
      (2)   Except for public use permit holders or users, no person or entity
may claim or assert exclusive use or possession of any county space, and any
attempt to exclude others from use or enjoyment of any county space, except
with a valid public use permit, will be deemed a violation of this subchapter
and results in the automatic revocation of the right or privilege to be on, in,
or at that county space for a period of 24 hours, and subjects such violators
to prosecution for trespass.
   (F)   Disorderly conduct, inappropriate behavior, illegal conduct, abuse of
the facility, or damage to property may result in the immediate termination of
the public use permit, and the activity or event occurring thereunder, without
refund and with loss of any deposits.
   (G)   The BOCC, or its designee, namely the County Manager, and his or her
staff, have the unilateral discretion regarding interpretation and enforcement
of the terms and conditions of public use permits, and in the violation of this
subchapter and propriety or necessity of terminating a public use permit and
the activity or event occurring thereunder.
   (H)   (1)   County buildings and facilities are not generally available for
commercial purposes to avoid unfairly undercutting existing private businesses
in the county.
      (2)   However, commercial use may be permitted when such use is limited
in duration and provides sufficient community benefit. Examples of such
allowable commercial use are the Deming Duck Races, Salsa Fest, and Klobase
Barbeque.
   (I)   Golf, archery, and shooting are not allowed at county facilities.
   (J)   Pets must be under the physical control of the person bringing the pet
into the park, and aggressive or menacing pets must be immediately removed from
the county facility.
   (K)   Tobacco, cannabis, unlicensed liquor, and illegal or illicit drugs are
prohibited at county facilities.
   (L)   All persons present at any public event or other activity at a county
facility must be appropriately attired at all times.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2021)
LAND USE, NATURAL RESOURCES
§ 35.035 LAND USE POLICY ADOPTED.
   The county’s Interim Land Use Policy, and any and all amendments thereto,
are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 17, passed 11-8-1991)
§ 35.036 NATURAL RESOURCE PLANNING AND REVIEW PROCESS ADOPTED.
   The county’s Natural Resource Planning and Review Process guidelines, and
any and all amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein.
(Ord. 26, passed 7-12-1994)
SUBDIVISION POLICY AND PROCEDURES MANUAL
§ 35.050 ADOPTION OF MANUAL.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners hereby adopts the County Subdivision
Policy and Procedures Manual to support the administration of Chapter 156 and
applicable state laws.
   (B)   The Manual shall serve as an official interpretive guide for
subdivision applicants, staff, and reviewing agencies.
(Res. 25-69, passed 9-11-2025)
§ 35.051 PURPOSE OF MANUAL.
   The Manual shall:
   (A)   Clarify submittal requirements and review timelines;
   (B)   Break down water, wastewater, and infrastructure documentation levels
(e.g., Level 1-3 water assessments and the like);
   (C)   Provide application checklists, process flowcharts, and explanatory
materials to improve usability and consistency; and
   (D)   Reference applicable portions of
Chapter 156 and the State Subdivision Act.
(Res. 25-69, passed 9-11-2025)
§ 35.052 AUTHORIZATION OF PILOT PROGRAM.
   The Board of County Commissioners further authorizes the implementation of a
Subdivision Pilot Program to test and evaluate the application of the Manual
and related administrative practices. The Pilot Program shall:
   (A)   Apply to a limited number of subdivision applications, selected at the
discretion of the Planning Department;
   (B)   Allow flexibility in internal procedures and documentation formats,
provided state law and core requirements of Chapter 156 are met;
   (C)   Include quarterly internal reviews to identify process improvements;
and
   (D)   Conclude with a formal evaluation report and recommendations for
incorporation into the forthcoming comprehensive Land Use Ordinance.
(Res. 25-69, passed 9-11-2025)
§ 35.053 AMENDMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Manual may be amended or updated by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners to reflect changes in law, policy, or administrative practice.
(Res. 25-69, passed 9-11-2025)
§ 35.054 DURATION.
   The Pilot Program shall remain in effect until either the adoption of a new
comprehensive land use ordinance or formal termination by the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Res. 25-69, passed 9-11-2025)
PROCUREMENT POLICY
§ 35.065 ADOPTION OF POLICY; AMENDMENTS.
   The town’s Procurement Policy, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Res. 25-53, passed 7-10-2025)
INDIGENT HEALTH CARE PROGRAM POLICY AND PROCEDURES
§ 35.080 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Mission statement. The County Indigent Health Care Program’s mission
is to promote the health and well being of residents of the county through
programs which improve access and availability of health care services in the
community.
   (B)   Vision statement. The vision of the County Indigent Health Care
Program is to improve the quality of life in the county by identifying and
addressing the health care needs of the residents of the county through
collaboration with community partners.
   (C)   Introduction. The County Indigent Health Care Program (“IHC”) is a
program administered by the Board of County Commissioners, in its capacity as
the Indigent Hospital and County Health Care Board (“Board”). The IHC program
was established in accordance with the Indigent Hospital and County Health Care
Act, NMSA Chapter 27, Article 5 (1978) (“Indigent Act”).
      (1)   (a)   The program provides assistance to medically indigent
patients (“patients”) who are residents of the county for authorized costs of
ambulance and health care services (“services”) provided by IHC designated
health care providers (“providers”)
         (b)   Providers eligible for IHC funding include in-state ambulance
services and in-state hospitals licensed by the State Department of Health.
Services may include in-patient and/or out-patient hospital services. Out-
patient hospital service may include diagnostics, such as labs and radiology,
limited to Mimbres Valley Medical Center.
      (2)   The Program shall also be utilized for primary care services,
physicians and for other services as deemed necessary by the IHC Administrator
for individuals held at the County Detention Center. This includes providing
for payment of medical claims by individuals committed to the custody of the
County Detention Center.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.081 APPLICANT AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   The applicant must be the patient. If the patient is a minor, a parent
or legal guardian having legal custody must file the application. In the event
of the death of the patient, the applicant shall be either the surviving spouse
or the executor or administrator of the estate. If the patient is
incapacitated, the applicant shall be the guardian, conservator, or other
legally responsible party.
   (B)   The application process and income verification for patients who have
received services by any provider within the county will be processed and
submitted by those institutions in cooperation with the County IHC Coordinator
(s). In some cases, patients may apply directly to the IHC program office, but
in either case, reimbursement is always made to the provider directly.
   (C)   The provider staff shall provide application materials, schedule an
interview with each patient, and provide assistance in completing the
application and verification process. The provider staff shall ensure that the
application is complete and all necessary verification documents to prove
eligibility are attached. The provider staff shall attach a claim statement and
itemized bill to each application and submit the claim to the IHC staff at 700
South Silver Avenue, Deming, NM, 88030. A separate application and claim must
be filed for each patient. No application will be accepted by the provider
staff prior to the patient receiving services. Failure to properly complete the
application or to provide eligibility documentation may result in denial of the
claim. Applications for services by providers outside of the county must be
submitted by the patient directly to the IHC staff for processing.
   (D)   The patient must sign a verified statement of qualification which
shall constitute an oath of the person signing it, and any false statements in
the verified statement made knowingly constitute a felony. All claims and
applications and any information contained therein shall be subject to
verification by the IHC staff.
   (E)   Applications are valid for one year from application date, except in
certain cases where the IHC staff finds that information must be updated with
each claim.
   (F)   Where services have been rendered to a person incarcerated in the
County Detention Center, or to a patient who is unable to provide traditional
documentation to verify eligibility, the program/facility administrator or
representative may attest to the patient’s indigency and residency, provided
that the means of determining eligibility shall be part of his or her record at
that facility and shall be available for auditors upon request.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.082 INDIGENT PATIENT.
   (A)   In order to be eligible for IHC program assistance, a patient must be
medically indigent as defined by NMSA § 27-5-4(G), must be a resident of the
county, and must not be eligible for Medicaid.
   (B)   Individuals committed to the custody of the County Detention Center
shall be considered medically indigent for the purposes of this policy.
   (C)   (1)   A patient who has received services from an IHC designated
provider, and who can normally support himself or herself and dependents on
present income and available liquid assets, but, taking into consideration this
income and those assets and the requirement for other necessities of life for
himself or herself and dependents, is unable to pay the costs of ambulance
transportation or medical services, or both, is defined as MEDICALLY INDIGENT.
      (2)   As provided by the Board of County Commissioners, “It shall not
include any person whose annual income together with his spouse’s annual income
totals an amount which is 50% greater than the per capita personal income,” for
the state as shown for the most recent year available in the survey of current
business published by the U.S. Department of Commerce. See Attachment A of the
original Resolution 25-82 from which this subchapter is derived for the income
limits.
   (D)   The term PATIENT includes a minor who has been denied Medicaid, and
has received services from a provider, and whose parent or the person having
legal custody of that minor would qualify as a patient if they received
services from a provider.
   (E)   NECESSITIES OF LIFE is defined to include the costs of food, shelter,
clothing, utilities, and vehicle/transportation expenses.
   (F)   The County IHC Board has set financial guidelines dealing with income
and assets, in addition to residency requirements, in order to determine if a
patient is eligible for IHC assistance.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.083 THIRD-PARTY LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   If there is a liability claim pending such workman’s
compensation, a lawsuit due to bodily injury, or another third party claim, IHC
claims will be processed and held by IHC staff until information detailing the
outcome of such liability claims is provided.
      (2)   The patient must demonstrate that no other source of payment
exists. If the patient has or plans to file a personal injury lawsuit, the
application must agree to subrogation.
   (B)   Failure of the patient to have available health care insurance through
their employer or private source shall not be considered by the County Health
Care Board to determine eligibility.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.084 OTHER ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.
   (A)   The IHC program is the payer of last resort. The provider staff shall
make all reasonable efforts to determine whether or not the patient is eligible
under any other public or private assistance program, such as Medicaid,
Medicare, or Indian Health Services.
   (B)   The provider staff shall require the patient to apply for medical
assistance through all agencies available. The patient shall provide a letter
from such agencies determining the approval or denial and this shall be part of
the verification process. Failure to cooperate in seeking assistance through
other government agencies will be grounds for denial of the IHC claim.
   (C)   A provider shall not be paid by the IHC funds for any costs when the
patient has been determined by the Human Services Department to be eligible for
Medicaid or any other assistance form HSD.
   (D)   If a patient has applied for assistance under the State Crime Victims
Reparation Commission, the state requires that all collateral sources such as
health insurance and programs such as the IHC program be exhausted before
assistance may be granted. In these cases, the Crime Victims Reparation
Commission is the payer of last resort.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.085 RESIDENCY.
   (A)   The patient must be domiciled in the county continuously and without
interruption for at least three months (90 days) prior to the date of service.
U.S. Citizenship is not required. Patients who reside out of the county for
periods of time on a temporary basis, including temporary employment, job
training, and full-time students with intent to return to the county of
residence, may be considered for IHC assistance based on the weight of the
evidence presented to the County Health Care Board. Under certain
circumstances, the patient may be asked to show intent to remain in the county.
   (B)   Residents of the county who are full time students attending school in
the state but out of the conty may qualify for IHC assistance. Such patients
will be taken into consideration on a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   A minor child is eligible for IHC assistance only if his or her
custodial parent resides in the county and only if the custodial parent would
qualify to receive IHC assistance. If only one of the parents of a minor child
of separated or divorced parents resides in the county, the applicant must
produce any separation agreement or divorce decree which pertains to the
custody of the minor child and to the responsibility for payment of medical
expenses.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.086 ASSETS.
   (A)   LIQUID ASSETS are defined to include cash and all other funds in
checking accounts, savings accounts, certificates of deposit, credit union
accounts, stocks, bonds, equity in real estate (other than the patient’s
primary home), and trusts.
   (B)   The asset limit for a household of one is $10,000; for a household of
two is $20,000; and for a household of three or more is $30,000. The asset
limit for widow/widowers is $20,000.
   (C)   Exempt are all liquid assets if the medical bill(s) exceed the amount
of savings of the household.
   (D)   Exempt are all or part of allowable asset limit if a patient has high
medical costs due to a catastrophic illness or injury. The patient is required
to provide a doctor’s report stating the nature of the illness or injury, and
the patient’s prognosis.
   (E)   Life insurance shall be exempted.
   (F)   Assets may be spent down to allowable limits by paying doctor bills,
other medical expenses or burial expenses not covered under the IHC program.
Documentation must be provided.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.087 INCOME VERIFICATION/COMPUTATION.
   (A)   General income.
      (1)   The gross income based on the number of individuals in the
household unit size cannot exceed 150% of the per capita income for the state.
      (2)   If the income level is equal to or greater than the personal per
capita income for state residents, as set forth in NMSA 1978 § 27-5-4(G), then
the patient is not designated as an “indigent patient.”
      (3)   For the purpose of determining household unit size, household
members to be included are the patient, the patient’s spouse, and the patient’s
legal dependents. All patients may be required to provide tax returns, check
stubs, award letters, profit/loss statements, trust documents, and the like to
the provider or IHC staff as part of the income verification process. All
sources of income earned or unearned by the household may be considered.
      (4)   Current income will be considered as income received 12 months
prior to the date of service, the twelfth month will be the month of the date
of service. The income of a deceased patient will not be included.
      (5)   Additional relevant information may be required by the IHC staff
and may be requested by telephone and/or by letter allowing up to 30 days for
the applicant to respond to such a request. Failure to comply will result in
the claim being administratively deleted or submitted by the IHC staff to the
County Health Care Board with a recommendation of denial.
   (B)   Special circumstances.
      (1)   If the applicant is an unwed mother, the annual income of the
father of the baby is included as the spouse’s annual income when calculating
the combined annual income.
      (2)   Unwed couples who are living together are treated the same as
married couples. Their annual incomes are combined.
      (3)   Couples who have been separated or divorced for less than 12 months
count all income for twelve months prior to hospitalization as combined annual
income.
   (C)   Extenuating circumstances. Approval may be granted in cases where the
patient’s household experiences a loss of income or has high medical debt due
to extenuating circumstances such as, but not limited to, a catastrophic
illness or injury of a household member. The patient may be required to provide
a doctor’s report stating the nature of the illness or injury, and the
patient’s prognosis. IHC staff may recommend approval for the full period of
eligibility, or for a one-time payment for the submitted claim or episode,
based on the weight of evidence received and documentation provided by the
patient.
   (D)   Income computation. The tax return for the prior year is the basis for
determining income in most situations. Whatever is stated to the IRS will apply
to dependency and income, unless status has changed. No deductions will be made
for number of dependents in the household.
      (1)   If the applicant has been steadily employed, use the prior year’s
tax return, and/or payroll check stubs for 12 months prior to hospitalization.
Employers’ letter of income verification may be needed.
      (2)   If the applicant has had variable employment, use the three prior
year’s tax returns, payroll check stubs for 12 months prior to hospitalization
and verification of income by letters from employers.
      (3)   If the applicant is self-employed, income is the net profit or loss
shown on Line 33, Form 1040 of Schedule C, plus any other income available from
other sources.
      (4)   If the applicant is a farm-laborer or occasional part-time
employee, use the prior year’s income tax return unless the applicant can
provide proof of income for each of the 12 months prior to hospitalization.
      (5)   If the patient is a dependent (at any age) and the dependent has
income, then the dependent’s income may be included with the income
calculation.
      (6)   If the patient is a dependent (at any age), the parent’s or
guardian’s income is considered in the income calculation.
      (7)   Depreciation is not an allowable deduction to income.
      (8)   Unearned income shall be verified by income tax returns, award
letters or viewing checks. Worker’s compensation and unemployment compensation
shall be counted as unearned income.
      (9)   Two or more households may be living under one roof but are not one
economic unit. This can best be established by their income tax returns which
will determine if the income(s) will be considered one household.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.088 SMALL CLAIMS.
   IHC claims from any provider in the amount of $100 or less will not be
considered for payment by the IHC program.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.089 LIMITATIONS ON IHC PAYMENTS.
   (A)   An eligible applicant may receive up to $25,000 total for all
hospitalization and emergency transport services per fiscal year (July 1
through June 30). The fiscal year shall be determined by the date of service.
Claims are accepted for the current fiscal year and the previous two fiscal
years. Claims for services provided prior to the previous two fiscal years will
not be accepted.
   (B)   Services are reimbursed at the following rates.
      (1)   Hospitalization:
         (a)   Mimbres Valley Medical Center: Up to $10,000 annually, with the
single visit minimum of $100 or greater. Room rates must be semi-private.
Reimbursement is paid at Medicaid eligible rates.
         (b)   Any state hospital and hospitals in El Paso, Texas: Up to
$10,000 annually, with a single visit minimum of $100 or greater. Payments for
services provided outside of the county is limited to medically necessary
inpatient hospital claims reimbursed at the Medicaid rate, but not to exceed
the limitations set forth herein.
         (c)   Any non-state hospital and hospitals outside El Paso, Texas: No
reimbursement.
         (d)   Hospitalization direct services: Up to $5,000 annually for any
fees directly incurred during a hospital or emergency room visit. Direct
services include physicians’ fees, pathology fees, and lab fees, which are
billed separately from the hospital facility. Reimbursement is paid directly to
providers at Medicaid eligible rates.
      (2)   Ambulance/emergency transport services:
         (a)   Emergency transport services (ground or air) may be reimbursed
at a maximum of $1,500 per claim. The transport of a patient must be by an
approved state-certified ambulance provider. The expense incurred includes the
care and transport of a patient to the “nearest” hospital; and
         (b)   The IHC fund is not intended to serve as reimbursement to the
patient/guarantor for payments previously made to the provider by the patient/
guarantor.
      (3)   Payments from the IHC fund shall not be considered for:
         (a)   Elective services, or services not considered a medical
necessity;
         (b)   Treatment which includes a more expensive procedure or product
when a less expensive procedure or product is available;
         (c)   Work-related injuries that are covered by the State Workers’
Compensation Act;
         (d)   Services that have been determined by the State Human Services
Department to be eligible for Medicaid reimbursement; or
         (e)   Medicare and other third-party insurance deductibles and co-
pays, except for services rendered at Mimbres Valley Medical Center.
      (4)   Primary care services; County Detention Center Detainees.
         (a)   Primary care services are provided for individuals committed to
the custody of the County Detention Center for the basic or general health care
needs of the detainees. Services may be provided by a licensed medical doctor,
certified registered nurse anesthetist, certified nurse practitioner,
osteopathic physician, dentist, optometrist, or expanded practice nurse when
providing emergency services, as determined by the IHC Administrator, in a
hospital to an indigent patient; or a licensed medical doctor or osteopathic
physician, dentist, optometrist, or expanded practice nurse when providing
services in an outpatient setting, as determined by the IHC Administrator.
         (b)   The IHC Administrator may allow other services which will
benefit individuals committed to the custody of the County Detention Center as
deemed necessary.
         (c)   For individuals committed to the custody of the County Detention
Center, approvals or reimbursements of IHC Funds by the county shall be made to
eligible medical providers based on the entirety of the actual billed charges
or 100% of the Medicaid rate, whichever is the lessor thereof, for eligible
treatment. Charges shall be submitted on itemized bills with the treatment
diagnosis from the medical provider. The charges for such services shall not
exceed the normal charges to other patients.
      (5)   Other services will be prioritized and reimbursed as allowed by
NMSA §27-5-7.1 and as approved and reviewed by the County Health Care Board on
a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   Charges that do not have Medicare rates assigned to them will be
reimbursed io the medical providers at a rate of 50% of the lowest contracted
rate available. Approvals or reimbursements will be made to medical providers
after obtaining authorization from the IHC Board.
   (D)   All payments for any services are limited to funding availability. A
claim made to the County Health Care Board for payment for the care of an
indigent patient shall not expire or become invalid because of a lack of money
in the fund during any fiscal year but shall be carried over into the ensuing
fiscal year.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.090 PATIENT/APPLICANT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Proof of financial eligibility and residency is the responsibility of the
patient. Failure to provide the required information may lead to denial of the
application by the IHC staff. It is also the responsibility of the patient to
provide proof of all means of support from all sources.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.091 RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Providers shall comply with the standards of the federal Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPPA”).
   (B)   Required filings. Prior to filing any claim with the County Health
Care Board every provider shall place on file the following information per
NMSA § 27-5:
      (1)   Written financial assistance policies that are publicized;
      (2)   Proof that the provider is licensed under the laws of this state or
any state or other governmental entity in which the health care provider
operates; and
      (3)   Any other information or data that may be deemed necessary by the
County Health Care Board.
   (C)   A qualifying hospital requesting or receiving safety net care pool
provider hospital payments shall:
      (1)   Accept every indigent patient and request reimbursement for those
patients through the appropriate county indigent fund. The responsible county
shall approve requests meeting its eligibility standards and notify the
hospital of such approval(s);
      (2)   Confirm the amount of payment authorized by each county for
indigent patients, to that county for the previous fiscal year, by September 30
of each calendar year;
      (3)   Negotiate with each county the amount of indigent hospital payments
anticipated for the following fiscal year by December 31 of each year; and
      (4)   Provide to the department prior to January 15 of each year the
amount of the authorized indigent hospital payments anticipated for the
following fiscal year after an agreement has been reached on the amount with
each responsible county and such other related information as the department
may request.
   (D)   The provider staff shall provide the patient with a list stating the
documents that are needed to provide the information necessary to complete the
verification process.
   (E)   The provider staff is responsible to specify the date by which
documentation must be provided. Care will be exercised to allow a reasonable
length of time, not to exceed 90 days, for the applicant to gather all
necessary documentation. If the patient requests additional time, the request
may be honored, but the patient must specify a reasonable date which may not
exceed 15 days of the date of the request. If the information is not provided,
the claim may be submitted to the IHC staff with a request for a denial.
   (F)   To verify applications:
      (1)   The provider staff will verify the applications by gathering
documentation for the information given on the application form. All claims
will be submitted to the IHC staff for presentation to the IHC Board for
review; and
      (2)   The amount approved for payment from the IHC Funds shall be
accepted and deemed by the provider as payment in full. Any collection action
against the patient for any portion of the bill not covered by IHC Funds is
prohibited.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.092 IHC STAFF RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The IHC staff will retain computerized case records for a period of
not less than five years. Case records will be periodically purged when it is
evident that the information is no longer valid or necessary and the time limit
for retention of records has expired.
   (B)   The IHC staff will request from the Finance Department a check (f/k/
a warrant) for payment of approved claims on a monthly basis.
   (C)   The County Treasurer’s Office and Business Office shall maintain all
IHC records of payment.
   (D)   Confidentiality:
      (1)   The IHC staff shall comply with the standards of the federal Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPPA”).
      (2)   All records dealing with physical or mental examinations or medical
treatment of patients are not public records and shall remain confidential
unless otherwise provided by law.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.093 AUTHORITY OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The IHC Board has complete authority to authorize payment from the IHC
Fund.
   (B)   The Board shall state in writing the reason for rejecting or
disapproving any claim to the applicant via the IHC staff and provide a copy of
that determination to the provider.
   (C)   The IHC Board may, under extenuating circumstances deemed appropriate,
increase or decrease any payment on behalf of an indigent patient.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.094 OPEN MEETINGS LAW.
   The meeting of a County Health Care Board quorum which is held for the
purpose of approving, denying, hearing appeals of patients’, or to discuss
other business within its authority shall be held in compliance with the Open
Meetings Law. The County Health Care Board may use a numbering or lettering
system to keep confidential the identity of the individual whose claim is being
discussed.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 35.095 APPEALS.
   (A)   If denied a claim, an applicant may appeal the decision in writing to
the Indigent Funds Claims Board within 30 days of notification of denial. A
written appeal should be addressed to:
Indigent Funds Claims Board
PO Drawer 551
Deming, NM 88031-0551
   (B)   The Claims Administrator will inform the applicant in writing of the
time and place of the applicant’s hearing with the Indigent Funds Claims Board.
The Claims Administrator may also request additional information at that time.
   (C)   A meeting of the Indigent Funds Claims Board is held for the purpose
of hearing the appeals of applicants. The Board may use a numbering or
lettering system to keep confidential the identity of the individual whose
claim is being discussed, unless the appealing applicant wishes to address the
Board.
   (D)   All decisions of the Board are final.
   (E)   The patient will be notified in writing within ten days of the Board’s
decision. If the Board upholds the eligibility denial, the patient has the
right to file an appeal with District Court.
(Res. 25-82, passed 11-13-2025)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWAGE
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Solid Waste System
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Accumulation, disposition of solid waste
   
50.04   Collection, disposal of solid waste
   
50.05   Disposal facility assessment
   
50.06   Regulations for private collection, containers
   
50.07   County collections
   
50.08   Billing, collection of assessments
   
50.09   Construction, demolition debris, solid waste
   
50.10   Enforcement provisions
   
50.11   Administration
   
50.12   Exemption
 
   
50.99   Penalty
SOLID WASTE SYSTEM
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted to the
Board of County Commissioners, hereinafter “the Board,” under the laws of the
state, including, but not limited to, NMSA §§ 4-37-1, 3-48-1 et seq., and 4-56-
1 et seq.
   (B)   This subchapter is enacted to protect and promote the health, safety,
and general welfare of the inhabitants of the county, hereinafter “the county,”
by establishing a system for collection and disposal of solid waste throughout
the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The words, terms, and phrases used in this subchapter shall generally be
interpreted consistent with NMSA §§ 4-37-1 et seq. and 4-56-1 et seq., and
applicable solid waste management regulations, promulgated by the state, its
departments, and agencies.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any person generating solid waste from any use other than a
single-family dwelling unit.
   CONVENIENCE STATION. A small solid waste transfer station operated by the
county for disposal of solid waste produced incidental to the normal
residential use of a single-family dwelling unit.
   DISPOSAL FACILITY. A permitted sanitary landfill or other acceptable method
of solid waste disposal, including a convenience or transfer station, which
operates in compliance with all state or other applicable waste management
regulation owned and operated by the City of Deming and/or the county.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Substances defined as hazardous or toxic by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency, the United States Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Federal Toxic Substances
Control Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., the State Hazardous Waste Act,
being NMSA §§ 74-4-1 et seq., other state or local law, and specifically
includes radioactive, volatile, highly flammable, explosive, biomedical,
infectious, and liquid waste, sludge waste, residue from industrial processes
or pollution control processes, contaminated soil, anything contaminated with
polychlorinated biphenyls (PBCs) or asbestos, outdated or contaminated, or
banned, chemicals or commercial products, animal waste or body parts, grease
trap residues, closed cartridge filters from dry cleaning establishments, and
other similar wastes.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. Any structure designed for residential use by
two or more families.
   PERSON. Every person, firm, partnership, public or private corporation,
association, trust, estate, or any other legal entity subject to the county’s
jurisdiction.
   PREMISES. Any real property, whether public, private, or commercial,
including vacant lots or lots with any type of structure, and includes realty
and personal property on the property and within structures on the property.
   PRIVATE SANITATION COMPANY. Any business registered with the State
Environment Department as a “commercial hauler” and operates in compliance with
all state, county, or other applicable solid waste management regulations, and
which is also registered to do business in the county and not accepting out-of-
county trash in the county.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit for one family.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, rubbish, or refuse, rejected or waste food, offal,
swill, carrion, ashes, dirt, slop, wastewater, trash, weeds, briars, brush,
junk automobiles or automobile parts, waste or unwholesome material of any
kind, except sewage, and including residential, commercial, institutional,
industrial, and recreational waste.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 50.03 ACCUMULATION, DISPOSITION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Prohibited accumulations. No person shall allow any solid waste to
accumulate upon premises which that person owns, rents, leases, or otherwise
occupies or controls, except in the manner provided by this subchapter.
   (B)   Acceptable accumulations. Building materials, pipes, lumber, or boxes
may be stored on the premises if the accumulation is evenly piled and stacked,
and is for business purposes or for a construction project for which a valid
and current building permit has been issued, or for a construction or
improvement project for which a permit is not legally required; any otherwise
permissible accumulation shall not be allowed to become a feeding or breeding
place for flies, insects, or rodents, or to otherwise become unsanitary,
unsafe, or similarly injurious to public health and safety.
   (C)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter or distribute solid
waste or to disturb the contents of any solid waste receptacles other than to
dispose of it in conformity with this subchapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, place, throw, or
deposit solid waste upon any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, storm sewer,
parkway, river, stream, lake, pond, arroyo, or other premises within the
county, except in receptacles or containers consistent with the provisions of
the subchapter. It shall be unlawful to transport solid waste in such a manner
as to cause it or allow it to be distributed onto such premises.
   (D)   Disposal facilities. All solid waste other than hazardous waste shall
be conveyed to a disposal facility though a method authorized by and consistent
with all provisions of this subchapter. The authorized use of transfer and
convenience stations will be governed by administrative procedures authorized
by the City of Deming and the county.
   (E)   Hazardous waste. Hazardous solid waste shall be disposed of at a
facility, which has been issued a permit by the State Environment Department
(or comparable agency with jurisdiction in the location of the facility) for
the disposal of hazardous waste.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 COLLECTION, DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Disposal facilities. The county shall provide at least one disposal
facility in order to allow county residents and property owners to comply with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Convenience disposal stations. As needed to adequately accommodate
storage and orderly collection of solid waste, the county may develop
convenience stations as a temporary and intermediate disposal of waste. Only
residential solid waste or refuse will be accepted at convenience stations. Any
persons who pays the disposal facility assessment may utilize any convenience
station provided by the county for the disposal of small amounts of solid waste
produced incidental to the normal residential use of a single-family dwelling
unit. Private sanitation companies and commercial users may not use the
convenience stations.
   (C)   Transfer station.
      (1)   A solid waste transfer station will be provided by the City of
Deming and the county for the disposal of solid waste refuse. All residents of
the county will be allowed access and use of the transfer station. Commercial
users and/or large residential items, such as furniture and appliances, may be
disposed of at the transfer station or may be directed to the landfill.
      (2)   Any person paying the disposal assessment fee may use the transfer
station without charge, except for tires and dead animals where a charge is
applicable.
      (3)   Persons who do not pay the disposal fee assessment may use the
transfer stations and pay the appropriate tipping fees. Private sanitation
companies licensed by the county may use transfer stations or landfill as
directed by the county.
   (D)   Tipping fees. Private sanitation companies, except for commercial
users, construction, and demolition companies shall pay any and all tipping
fees that may be required for use of a particular disposal facility.
   (E)   Location. Location of convenience stations is to be determined by the
county.
   (F)   Private sanitation pick-up service.
      (1)   All private sanitation companies doing business with the county
must have a franchise agreement with the county must register with the County
Planning Department, and pay an annual licensing fee.
      (2)   The fee will be set annually by resolution by the Board of County
Commissioners. Private haulers must comply with all State Environmental
Department regulations, provisions of the franchise agreement, and the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   Private haulers may set their own rates and may use the county
transfer station only for waste originating in and picked up in the county.
   (G)   Containers. Containers utilized for storage of solid waste on the
premises, and for transportation of solid waste to a disposal facility, must be
designed and secured so as to fully enclose and contain the solid waste and
must be leak-proof for storage or transport. All containers (brands and types)
must be approved by the county.
   (H)   Multi-family dwelling units. Multi-family dwelling units shall be
considered a commercial user; any owner of a multi-family dwelling unit who
fails to or refuses to comply with the commercial user requirements of this
subchapter shall be subject to the full disposal facility assessment for each
dwelling unit, and shall also be subject to prosecution for violation of the
subchapter, and to all other penalties allowed by law.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 DISPOSAL FACILITY ASSESSMENT.
   The owner of any residential and commercial property or premises (or which
could be used for residential or commercial purposes) within the county shall
be assessed an annual fee of $12 for each tax bill assessed by the County
Treasurer. The assessed amount shall be included in the tax bill mailing, and
shall be due and payable concurrently with all assessed taxes. In the event the
fee is not timely paid, a fixed penalty of $5 shall be added to the annual fee.
In addition to the penalty, an interest charge of 1% per month shall accrue.
Collection of delinquent fees provided above be as allowed by law.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 50.06 REGULATIONS FOR PRIVATE COLLECTION, CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Frequency of service. Solid waste collection services by private
sanitation companies must be provided on at least a weekly basis, or more
frequently if necessary, to keep the premises free of solid waste consistent
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Containers. Containers utilized for storage of solid waste on the
premises between collections must be designed so as to fully enclose and
contain the solid waste, and must be leak-proof for storage of any liquid solid
waste. The county must approve all containers used by private sanitation
companies.
   (C)   Vehicle requirement. Private sanitation company vehicles shall be
covered and meet all state and federal vehicle safety requirements, and all
county requirements that may be developed subsequent to this subchapter.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 50.07 COUNTY COLLECTIONS.
   The county may provide pick-up and disposal services as needed to ensure
competition, affordability, and compliance with this subchapter. The fees for
county pick-up services shall be based on the costs of operations,
depreciation, capital improvements, and administrative, and all other necessary
business costs.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 50.08 BILLING, COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENTS.
   The county shall bill disposal facility assessments in the tax bill mailings
issued by the County Treasurer. Non-payment of any assessment will be subject
to collection as allowed by law, including, but not limited to, the provisions
NMSA §§ 3-48-4 et seq. allowing for a lien on the property subject to the
assessment.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 50.09 CONSTRUCTION, DEMOLITION DEBRIS, SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Construction and demolition debris, solid waste disposal. Commercial
users in construction and demolition industries shall not be required to meet
the requirements applicable for other commercial users for construction and
demolition debris, or solid waste produced incidental to construction and
demolition operations, but shall instead comply with the provisions of §
50.04. Construction and demolition debris, or other forms of solid waste
produced by a commercial user incidental to construction and demolition
operations, shall not be disposed of at convenience stations.
   (B)   Construction and demolition debris, solid waste provisions.
      (1)   Solid waste containment required. At all sites where streets,
sidewalks, buildings, or structures are being constructed, remodeled, repaired,
demolished, or maintained, the construction site shall be kept free from
uncontained accumulations of solid waste debris, including, but not limited to,
scrap or discarded pieces of concrete, cinderblock, asphalt, concrete, and
other building or construction products. Accumulations shall be deemed
contained when placed in solid waste or debris containers. Any accumulation
otherwise permissible under this section shall not be allowed to become a
feeding or breeding place for flies, insects, or rodents, or to otherwise
become unsanitary, unsafe, or similarly injurious to the public health and
safety. The following types of solid waste accumulations shall not be required
to be placed in approved storage containers if the specified conditions are
met.
         (a)   Major building demolition waste. Solid waste produced by a major
building demolition which is so large in scope or scale that it cannot
reasonably be placed in approved containers shall be an exception to this
section, provided all loose, readily wind-borne matter is contained and the
remainder is either not an immediate hazard to the public because of its nature
or because of security measures on site. Immediately following completion of
the demolition project, all solid waste on the site must be removed to an
approved disposal facility.
         (b)   Major street construction and maintenance project waste. Solid
waste from street construction, reconstruction, or maintenance projects, and
street-pavement cuts which are so large in scope or scale that they cannot
reasonably be placed in approved containers, shall be an exception to this
section, provided all loose, readily wind-borne matter is contained and the
remainder is not an immediate hazard to the public. Immediately following
completion of the demolition project, all solid waste on the site must be
removed to an approved disposal facility.
         (c)   Masonry solid waste. Rock, concrete, mortar, brick, and
cinderblock solid waste does not have to be placed in an approved container and
may be collected into a pile on the ground, but must be removed to a permitted
disposal site immediately upon completion of the construction from which the
waste was generated, or within 30 days after the work is abandoned. Extra
concrete from cleaning delivery trucks must be placed on site and not on
developed roads or sidewalks. This concrete must subsequently be removed to a
permitted disposal site.
         (d)   Roofing materials solid waste. Shingles, tarpaper, and other
solid waste from roofing jobs that are capable of readily becoming wind-borne
do not have to be placed into an approved container, provided such waste is
placed directly into a dump truck or similar truck for hauling to an approved
disposal facility and is removed on a daily basis.
         (e)   Wind-borne solid waste. Solid waste capable of being wind-borne
shall be contained daily, except on windy days when it shall be contained
immediately. Windy days shall be those days when solid waste is observed
becoming wind-borne.
      (2)   Storage containers. Unless granted a specific exception within this
division (B), solid waste materials from construction shall be deposited and
stored within approved waste containers as follows:
         (a)   The following mechanically transported containers may be used
for construction waste:
            1.   Open-top containers, commonly referred to as roll-off
containers, to be used for construction waste not capable of readily becoming
wind-borne and acceptable for limited amounts of heavy items, such as earth,
bricks, concrete, and shingles;
            2.   Overhead-dump containers, having lids and at least three cubic
yards capacity, to be used for lightweight construction waste only, including
that which is capable of readily becoming wind-borne, and for earth, bricks,
concrete, shingles, and other heavy materials; and
            3.   Other containers, including, but not limited to, dump trucks
and fenced enclosures, may be used for waste control, provided a request is
submitted and approved with the building permit.
         (b)   Containers having lids shall be kept closed at all times, except
when containers are being filled or emptied.
         (c)   The number of containers at a construction site shall be
sufficient to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
         (d)   Required containers shall be located not more than 200 feet from
the construction site, and may be shared by more than one construction site.
      (3)   Disposal. Construction and demolition debris, or other forms of
solid waste produced by a commercial user incidental to construction and
demolition operations, shall be disposed at a facility or as directed.
      (4)   Responsibility. It shall be the duty of any person holding a
building permit to provide acceptable containers and to have all solid waste
placed therein, and to have such containers emptied often enough to prevent
their overflow. It shall further be the duty of the person holding a building
permit and the property owner whether to remove or cause to be removed all
construction solid waste from the site to a disposal facility, or to contract
for the services of a private sanitation company to transport such waste to a
disposal facility or approved fill site.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 50.10 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Construction and demolition debris, or other forms of solid waste
produced by a commercial user incidental to construction and demolition
operations, shall be disposed of at a disposal facility or as directed.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be enforced by the County Sheriff’s Department
and/or the County Code Enforcement Unit, or other authorized county personnel.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 50.11 ADMINISTRATION.
   Under the supervision of the County Manager, county staff is authorized to
implement, manage, and enforce this subchapter. Policies and procedures to be
developed and implemented pursuant to this authority may include determination
of the frequency and method of billing for disposal facilities assessments,
imposition of late fees for non-payment, offering discounts for advance
payments, establishing documentation requirements, and any other matters
necessary to administer the subchapter.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 50.12 EXEMPTION.
   Agriculture waste is exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty or remedy, including injunctive
relief, any person who violates any provision of §§
50.01 through
50.12 shall be subject to prosecution consistent with state and local law,
including, but not limited to, NMSA § 40-37-03. Each violation of §§
50.01 through
50.12 shall be subject to a fine of up to $300, up to 90 days imprisonment, or
both, except that:
      (1)   A fine of up to $1,000 may be assessed against any person who
discards private property in any manner other than by disposing of it in an
authorized landfill or other disposal facility; and
      (2)   A fine of up to $5,000 may be assessed against any person for the
improper or illegal disposal of hazardous materials or waste in any manner
other than as provided for in the Hazardous Waste Act, NMSA §§ 74-4-1 et seq.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-21-2002)
CHAPTER 51: SEWAGE
Section
Disposal of Untreated Waste
   
51.01   Scope
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Disposal of waste
   
51.04   Enforcement
 
   
51.99   Penalty
DISPOSAL OF UNTREATED WASTE
§ 51.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted the
county by the state, including NMSA §§ 4-37-1 et seq.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to the disposal of waste in the county by
all persons.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-6-2005)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
society, association, or cooperative, and every officer, agent, or employee
thereof.
   PREMISES. Any real property in the county, improved or unimproved, located
outside the municipal boundaries of the City of Deming and the Village of
Columbus, New Mexico.
   WASTE.
      (1)   LIQUID WASTE. All liquid waste from any industrial, manufacturing,
or mechanical process, including motor oil and lubricants, wastewater,
including sewerage from septic tanks or other sources, and any contaminated or
hazardous liquids as defined by state and deferral law, specifically including
the State Hazardous Waste Act, being NMSA §§ 74-4-1 et seq., Federal Toxic
Substances Control Act, being U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., and substances defined as
hazardous by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
      (2)   SEPTAGE. The residual wastes including human waste, water, or
grease removed from septic tanks, from a holding tank, or other on-site
wastewater treatment system.
      (3)   SLUDGE. Solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a
municipal, commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply
treatment plant or air pollution control facility that is associated with the
treatment of these wastes.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-6-2005)
§ 51.03 DISPOSAL OF WASTE.
   (A)   No person shall dispose of any waste, as defined in §
51.02, on any premises located in the county. This includes the discharge (land
application) of septage by any collector or other disposal entity.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all liquid waste, including the waste
approved by the State Environment Department, which may not be discharged on
county premises.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not apply to disposal of waste into a municipal
sewer system or treatment facility operated by the City of Deming or the
Village of Columbus.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-6-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   Pursuant to NMSA §§ 4-37-3 and 4-37-4, §§
51.01 through
51.03 may be enforced by the County Sheriff and deputies or County Code
Enforcement Officers.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-6-2005)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any failure to comply with a requirement or regulation of §§
51.01 through
51.03 shall constitute a violation of §§
51.01 through
51.03.
      (2)   Pursuant to NMSA § 4-37-3, violation of §§
51.01 through
51.03 may be prosecuted in any court of competent jurisdiction within the
county, and shall be punishable by a fine of $300 or imprisonment for 90 days,
or both, except that where the violation involves the disposal or discarding of
refuse, litter, or garbage on public or private property in any manner, other
than by disposing of it in an authorized landfill, the fine may be no more that
$1,000, and except that where the violation involves the improper or illegal
disposal of hazardous materials or waste in any manner, other than that as
provided for in the Hazardous Waste Act, being NMSA §§ 74-4-1 et seq., the fine
may be more than $5,000.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties set forth in division (B)(2) above,
the county may seek injunctive relief against a violator requiring tho violator
to perform, or prohibiting the violator from performing, certain conduct
related to §§
51.01 through
51.03.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-6-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Off-Highway Vehicles
   
70.01   Purpose
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   OHV operation on county roadway
   
70.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on OHV operation
   
70.05   Miscellaneous
OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
§ 70.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to the operation of off-highway vehicles
on county-owned and controlled roadways consistent with the provisions of the
Off-Highway Vehicle Act, NMSA §§ 66-3-1001 et seq.
   (B)   This subchapter is only applicable to those areas in the county
outside the incorporated municipalities of the City of Deming and Village of
Columbus.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this subchapter applies to or affects operation
of off-highway vehicles on private property, nor does it authorize operation on
roads or highways owned or controlled by the state or federal government, or
agencies thereof.
(Ord. 112, passed 7-13-2023)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY-OWNED or CONTROLLED ROADWAY. Within the scope of this subchapter,
includes all designated county roads, both maintained and not maintained by the
county, rights-of-way, and easements that were constructed, signed, and
maintained for regular passenger-car use by the general public.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTOR VEHICLE (OHV). A motorized vehicle designed by the
manufacturer
for operation off the highway or road, and includes:
      (1)   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV), which is a motorized vehicle, 50 inches
or less in width, having an unladen dry weight of 1,000 pounds or less,
traveling on three or more low-pressure tires and having at least one seat
designed to be straddled by the operator and handle-bar type steering control;
      (2)   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE (OHM), which is a motorized vehicle
traveling on not
more than two tires and having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator
with handle-bar type steering control;
      (3)   RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE (UTV), which is a motorized
vehicle designed for travel on four or more non-highway tires, for use by one
or more persons, and being 80 or less inches in overall width, exclusive of
accessories, a gross vehicle weight rating not greater that 1,750 pounds, an
engine displacement of less than 1,000 cubic centimeters, maximum speed
capability in excess of 35 mph, and having one or more non-straddle seating, a
steering wheel for steering control, and identification by means of a 17-
character vehicle identification number; and
      (4)   Any other vehicle identified or described by the State Department
of Game and Fish or the Off-Highway Motor Vehicle Advisory Board fitting the
general profile of a vehicle operated off the highway for recreational
purposes.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTOR VEHICLE ACT. Refers to NMSA §§ 66-3-1001 through 66-3-
1021, and may be referred to herein as THE ACT or OHMVA.
(Ord. 112, passed 7-13-2023)
§ 70.03 OHV OPERATION ON COUNTY ROADWAY.
   (A)   An OHV, excluding OHM (motorcycles) and snowmobiles, may be operated
on a county-owned or operated roadway if:
      (1)   The vehicle has one or more headlights and one or more taillights
that comply with the OHMVA, being NMSA §§ 66-3-1001 et seq.;
      (2)   The vehicle has brakes, mirrors, and mufflers;
      (3)   The operator has a valid driver’s license or permit as required
under the Motor Vehicle Code and off-highway motor vehicle safety permits as
required under the OHMVA;
      (4)   The operator is insured in compliance with the provisions of the
Mandatory Financial Responsibility Act, being NMSA §§ 66-5-201 et seq.;
      (5)   The operator of the vehicle is using eye protection that complies
with the OHMVA;
      (6)   The vehicle complies with the registration, license plate,
validation stickers, and display requirements of the OHMVA; and
      (7)   The vehicle is equipped by a spark arrester approved by the United
States Forest Service.
   (B)   Operators of OHVs under the age of 18 years must also comply with the
following:
      (1)   Must be at least 13 years of age and have a valid motorcycle
license and off-highway vehicle safety permit, or be at least 15 years of age
and have a valid driver’s license, instruction permit, or provisional license
and off-highway vehicle safety permit;
      (2)   Must be accompanied by or under the direct supervision of a parent,
guardian, or custodian of a certified safety/OHV instructor;
      (3)   May not operate while carrying a passenger under the age of 18
years; and
      (4)   Must wear a safety helmet that complies with the OHMVA.
   (C)   All operators shall be subject to the applicable requirements and
penalties for moving and parked vehicles of the Motor Vehicle Code, being NMSA
§§ 66-1-1 et seq., except for those provisions in conflict with the OHMVA,
including provisions relating to driving while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or drugs, and to the penalty provisions of the OHMVA.
(NMSA § 66-3-1020)
(Ord. 112, passed 7-13-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON OHV OPERATION.
   (A)   No person may operate an OHV on any limited-access highway, freeway,
or interstate except to cross after coming to a complete stop prior to crossing
and yielding the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic.
   (B)   ATVs operated pursuant to this subchapter shall be subject to a speed
limit of 35 mph or the posted speed limit, whichever is less, and only on the
right-hand side of the roadways.
   (C)   UTVs operated pursuant to this subchapter shall be subject to a speed
limit of 45 mph or the posted speed limit, not to exceed 55 mph.
   (D)   Operators of OHVs shall ride only on the permanent and regular seat
attached thereto, and shall not carry any passenger unless such vehicle is
designed to carry more than one person on permanent and regular seating
attached to the OHV.
   (E)   Operators of OHVs may not carry any person, package, bundle, or other
items which prevent the operator from keeping both hands on the steering
mechanism, or which interferes with the operation of the OHV or obstructs the
operator’s view.
   (F)   OHVs may not be used on county-owned or controlled roadways in the
pursuit of and/or with the intent to hunt or take a game animal, except as
allowed by the State Game Commission.
   (G)   No operator shall use any OHV in the pursuit of, or harassment of,
livestock belonging to another person or entity, except in the course of valid
agricultural operations, nor in any manner that has a direct negative effect on
or interferes with persons engaged in agricultural practices.
   (H)   OHVs may not be operated on land owned, controlled, or administered by
the State Game Commission or the State Parks Division, except as specifically
authorized bylaw.
(Ord. 112, passed 7-13-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to persons who
operate OHVs on privately held land or to OHVs that are:
      (1)   Owned and operated by an agency or department of the United States,
the state, or a political subdivision of this state;
      (2)   Owned by non-residents and used in this state only for organized
competition purposes, provided that the use is not on a rental basis, unless
holding a valid non-resident permit;
      (3)   Brought into this state by manufacturers or distributors for
wholesale purposes and not used for demonstrations;
      (4)   In the possession of dealers as stock-in-trade and not used for
demonstration purposes;
      (5)   Farm tractors, as defined by NMSA § 66-1-4.6, special mobile
equipment, as defined by NMSA § 66-1-4.16, or OHVs being used for agricultural
operations; or
      (6)   Used exclusively on private closed courses.
   (B)   This subchapter does not authorize OHV use anywhere other than county-
owned or controlled roadways, and specifically does not authorize operation on
private lands or roads without the express permission of the landowner or
leaseholder of such lands.
(Ord. 112, passed 7-13-2023)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Short title
   
90.02   Jurisdiction
   
90.03   Meaning of terms
   
90.04   Purpose
   
90.05   Illustrative enumeration
   
90.06   Definitions
Nuisances
   
90.20   Manufactured home; mobile home salvage
   
90.21   Sewage
   
90.22   Salvage yards
   
90.23   Unlawful burial
   
90.24   Waste tires; storage, use
   
90.25   Noise caused by un-muffled pipes
Dangerous Buildings
   
90.40   Dangerous buildings
   
90.41   Removal of dangerous buildings, debris
   
90.42   Emergency measures
   
90.43   Certificate of compliance
   
90.44   Prohibition
Enforcement
   
90.55   Maintenance of nuisance
   
90.56   Administration, enforcement responsibility
   
90.57   Inspectors
   
90.58   Notice of nuisance of violation
   
90.59   Citation uniform non-traffic
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Nuisance Ordinance,” and shall be
referred to herein as “this ordinance” or “this chapter.”
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 90.02 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall provide for the regulation of littering; nuisances;
dangerous buildings; salvage yards; towing operations; dealers, wreckers, and
dismantlers; burial and disposal of human remains; and waste tires within the
county, but not within the boundaries of municipalities.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 90.03 MEANING OF TERMS.
   Wherever the terms COUNTY PLANNING DIRECTOR or COUNTY PLANNER appear in this
chapter, they shall be read and understood as including any other person or
position authorized by the County Manager or the Board of County Commissioners
to administer or otherwise carryout the requirements of the chapter.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 90.04 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Every owner of property in the county is entitled to the peaceful
enjoyment of his or her property free from any interference caused by the
unlawful act or failure to perform a duty by any other persons in the county,
or by any other person suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or
exist; which act, omission, condition, or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any public road, highway, sidewalk, stream,
ditch, or drainage;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life to the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   This chapter establishes certain duties that owners of property owe to
the community.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 90.05 ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions, or actions are declared to be and constitute a nuisance; provided,
however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive,
limiting, or restrictive:
   (A)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber, or other things;
   (B)   Any condition that provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes, flies,
mosquitoes, injurious insects, termites, and other vermin;
   (C)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death;
   (D)   The pollution of any public or private well or cistern, stream, lake,
arroyo, canal, or body of water by sewage, dead animals, industrial wastes, or
other substances;
   (E)   Discarding, discharging, releasing, scattering, throwing, sweeping, or
dumping, either intentionally or unintentionally, of litter, paper, cans,
bottles, packaging, refuse, trash, construction waste, building materials, or
garbage into the public right-of-way, onto the private property of other
persons, or into the environment;
   (F)   Junked, inoperative, wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled,
discarded, unused, or unlicensed mobile homes, recreational vehicles, or
trailers, except in an authorized, permitted salvage yards;
   (G)   Discarded or unused machinery or appliances, or parts thereof, or the
accumulation of materials that creates an unsafe, unsightly condition, or a
harborage for disease vectors or other vermin, except for such items located in
an authorized, permitted salvage yard; and
   (H)   Any building, structure, or other place or location where any
activity, which is in violation of local, state, or federal law, is conducted,
performed, or maintained.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 90.06 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Any word or term not defined in this chapter shall have the meaning
ascribed to it in the county subdivision ordinance or the county zoning
ordinance, or the Deming/Luna County extra-territorial zoning regulations, or
they shall have their ordinary accepted meaning within the context with which
they are used.
      ACCEPTABLE.
         (a)   Accepted by the County Building Official, or the State Building
Official, with respect to matters set out in this chapter;
         (b)   Accepted by the County Fire Marshal, or other authority
designated by the County Manager, with respect to matters under the NFPA Fire
Protection Code; and
         (c)   Accepted by the County Code Compliance Officer with respect to
the standards set out in this chapter.
      AGRICULTURE. An agricultural use or activity requires a tract containing
five or more contiguous acres in active, current use for the production of farm
crops for sale and profit, including vegetables, fruit, cotton, grain, and
other crops, and the processing of crops to the generally recognizable minimum
level of marketability and storage thereof on the premises; the open range
grazing of livestock or irrigated pasture for grazing livestock; animal and
poultry husbandry, dairy operations, floriculture, and horticulture; and
accessory uses customarily incidental to agricultural activities; provided
further, that AGRICULTURE does not include commercial slaughter houses,
meatpacking plants, fertilizer yards, or other similar animal-related uses.
      AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock, or other horticultural products.
This structure shall not be a place of human habitation or a place of
employment, where agricultural products are processed, treated, or packaged,
nor shall it be a place used by the public.
      BALED TIRE or TIRE BALE. A method of volume reduction of waste tires,
whereby whole or cut tires are compacted into a bundle and then banded together
to form a tire bale. BALED TIRES shall not be considered processed tires and
shall be defined as solid waste, unless they are incorporated into some
beneficial use project.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer, or official or inspector, or other
designated authority, charged with the administration and enforcement of any
code, or the BUILDING OFFICIAL’S duly authorized representative.
      BURIAL. The process of interring human remains.
      CEMETERY. A place dedicated to, and used and intended to be used for, the
permanent interment of human remains.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certificate issued to the property owner by
the County Code Compliance Officer, or other designated county official, or a
State Building Official evidencing the fact that the requirements of this
chapter, as set forth in this chapter, have been met.
      CODE. A standard that is an extensive compilation of provisions covering
broad subject matter or that is suitable for adoption into law, or any adopted
uniform code pertaining to construction activities.
      CODE COMPLIANCE OFFICER. The person designated by the county to enforce
various county codes or ordinances.
      COUNTY. Luna County, New Mexico.
      COUNTY BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners.
      CUT TIRE. A waste tire from which the tire face, tread, or sidewall has
been cut or removed for beneficial use. A CUT TIRE shall consist of pieces
greater than 18 inches on any one side.
      GRAVE. A lot, plot, or burial space, and means a space of ground used
for, or intended to be used for, the permanent interment of human remains.
      HUMAN REMAINS or REMAINS. The body of a deceased person, regardless of
its stage of decomposition, and cremated remains.
      INSPECTOR. The County Building Inspector or the Code Compliance Officer,
or a person duly delegated by the County Building Inspector or the Code
Compliance Officer, or a person instructed or requested by the County Building
Inspector or the Code Compliance Officer, to provide a written report with
respect to any matter set out in this chapter.
      INTERMENT. The disposition of human remains by entombment, inurnment, or
burial.
      JUNKED MOBILE HOME. Any abandoned, disassembled, dismantled,
uninhabitable, severely damaged, or wrecked mobile home.
      LITTER, TO LITTER, or LITTERING. The act of placing, discarding,
broadcasting, throwing, tossing, or allowing the spreading or broadcasting of
refuse or debris onto any property or location, or site not officially
designated as a solid waste or refuse disposal facility, and shall include all
such acts by a person occupying a motor vehicle.
      LCBO. The County Building Official; see also INSPECTOR and BUILDING
OFFICIAL.
      MAINTAINED. To carry out any repairs, reconstruction, refinishing, or
replacement of any part or parts of a building, or structure or property, and
MAINTAINED shall also mean the upkeep, attention, and care of grounds.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A movable or portable housing structure over 32 feet
in length or over eight feet in width constructed to be towed on its own
chassis and designed to be installed with or without a permanent foundation for
human occupancy as a residence, and which may include one or more components
that can be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently expanded for
additional capacity, or may be two or more units separately towable but
designed to be joined into one integral unit, as well as a single unit.
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include recreational vehicles or modular or pre-
manufactured homes built to IBC standards, designed to be permanently affixed
to real property. MANUFACTURED HOME includes any movable or portable housing
structure over 12 feet in width and 40 feet in length, which is used for non-
residential purposes.
      MOBILE HOME. A moveable or portable housing structure larger than 40 feet
in body length, eight feet in width, or 11 feet in overall height, designed for
and occupied by no more than one family for living and sleeping purposes that
is not constructed to the standards of the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development, the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., and the Housing
and Urban Development Zone Code 2, or the International Building Code, as
amended, to the date of the unit’s construction or built to the standards of
any municipal building code.
      NOTICE OF NUISANCE. The notice issued by any authorized County Employee
directed to the owner, occupant, or tenant of property in the county setting
out the violations and the time limits for abatement of the violations under
this chapter.
      NUISANCE. Knowingly creating, performing, or maintaining anything
affecting any number of citizens without lawful authority, or failure to
perform a duty which creates any of the outcomes identified in §
90.04.
      OCCUPANCY. The purpose that a building, or part thereof, is used or
intended to be used.
      OFFICER. The Code Compliance Officer, the person designated by the county
to administer and enforce various codes and ordinances.
      OWNER. Any person, agent, firm, or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property.
      PARCEL. A unit of land capable of being described by location and
boundaries, and not dedicated for public or common use.
      PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the Building
Official, the County Planner, or other authorized authority, as appropriate,
authorizing performance of a specified activity.
      PERSON. A natural person, including any individual, partnership, company,
corporation, firm, association, trust, estate, foundation, and state and
federal agency, institution, county, city, town, village, or municipality, or
other legal entity however organized.
      PROCESSED TIRE. A tire that bas been processed through grinding,
shredding, or other means, thereby producing a material that is readily
suitable for marketing into product manufacturing, energy recovery, or other
beneficial reuse markets. Waste tires that have been compacted, baled, cut, or
shredded, without a suitable market, shall not be considered PROCESSED TIRES
and shall be regulated as solid waste.
      PROPERTY. Any area, plot, or parcel of land in the county, which is under
a common ownership or is separately identified for assessment by the County
Assessor’s office. PROPERTY shall include land under the ownership of the
United States, the state, or any local government or school district entity.
This definition is intended to be inclusive and not limiting, and shall
therefore include all land within the boundaries of the county, except that the
definition of property, and therefore this chapter, shall exclude PROPERTY
within the boundaries of the City of Deming and the Village of Columbus, and
any hereafter incorporated municipality.
      PROPERTY OCCUPANT. Any person who is occupying any property, whether by
legal right or without legal right.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person who is the recorded owner of any property
according to the records contained in the County Clerk’s office.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A self-contained driven or towed portable unit not
designed to be installed on a temporary or permanent foundation, nor used for
human occupancy as a residence, which includes: pickup campers, chassis mounted
motor homes, mini motor homes, park trailers, recreational vans, pop-up tent/
hard-top trailers, converted busses, or other converted and chopped vehicles.
      REFUSE.
         (a)   Any organic or inorganic waste or debris, including, but not
limited to, garbage, household waste, wastepaper, waste containers, empty
packaging, empty or used plastic bags or other plastic containers, empty drink
containers, empty or used styrofoam containers, empty metal cans or containers
of any kind, any material that is discarded after residential or commercial
use, scraps of building materials such as wood, brick, concrete, asphalt,
metal, and plastic, materials resulting from the demolition of any structure or
vehicle, used grease, used oil, used vehicle parts, used appliances or
machinery parts, used tires, discarded household furnishings and equipment,
junked parts or bodies of automobiles and other metallic junk or scrap,
discarded cleaning materials, and any material commonly known as trash or junk.
         (b)   REFUSE does not include:
            1.   Waste from the extraction, beneficiation, and processing of
ores and minerals, including phosphate-rock and overburden from the mining of
uranium, ore, coal, copper, molybdenum,
and other ores and minerals;
            2.   Agricultural waste, including, but not limited to, manure and
other crop residues returned to the soil as fertilizer or soil conditioner;
            3.   Sand and gravel;
            4.   Solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage, or solid or
dissolved materials in irrigation return, flows, or industrial discharges that
are point sources subject to permits under § 402 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1342, or source, special nuclear, or by-produce
material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq.
and subsequent amendments;
            5.   Any material regulated by Subtitle C of the Federal Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., or substances
regulated by the Federal Toxic Substance Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601
et seq.; and
            6.   Salvage materials, as defined in this chapter, which are
contained within an official. legally established salvage yard.
      REPAIR. The reconstruction, renewal, refinishing, or refurbishing of all
or any part of an existing building or structure, or property, for the purpose
of its maintenance.
      SALVAGE MATERIALS. Any inoperable motor vehicles, inoperable construction
equipment, inoperable agricultural equipment, inoperable machinery, inoperable
major household appliances, any unused or junked manufactured or mobile homes
intended to be dismantled, and accumulations of scrap metal or used building
materials, which are kept together in one location or on any property for the
commercial purpose of selling or bartering same, repairing same, or recycling
parts from same into other like objects. Such SALVAGE MATERIALS are permitted
only in an official, legally established salvage yard.
      SALVAGE YARD. Any property upon which salvage materials may be legally
stored in the quantities described below:
         (a)   Four or more inoperable vehicles;
         (b)   Any unused or junked manufactured or mobile home to be
dismantled;
         (c)   Four or more inoperable major household appliances;
         (d)   Four or more inoperable pieces of construction equipment;
         (e)   Four or more inoperable pieces of agricultural equipment,
brought in from another property; or
         (f)   Scrap metal, used building materials, and used household
furnishings or goods, or other used materials.
      SEWAGE. Residential wastes, commercial wastes, industrial wastes, and any
drainage, but does not include stormwater.
      SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A system for transporting sewage owned and operated by
the county, or a private disposal system approved by the State Environmental
Department.
      SHALL. Construed as mandatory.
      SITE. A parcel of land, or several contiguous parcels of land, used or
occupied, or to be used or occupied, by a building and accessory buildings, and
the area belonging to such buildings, bounded by a property line or a
designated portion of a public street.
      SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, rubbish, refuse, rejected or waste food, offal,
swill, carrion, ashes, dirt, slop, wastewater, trash, weeds, briers, brush,
junk automobiles or automobile parts, waste, or unwholesome material of any
kind, except sewage, and including residential, commercial, institutional,
industrial, and recreational waste.
      STREET or ROAD. All property dedicated or intended for public or private
access to property, or subject to public easements therefor.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, STRUCTURE shall include a wall, fence, sign, or billboard.
      TOWING SERVICE. The use of specialized equipment, including repossession
services using towing equipment, to transport:
         (a)   A damaged, disabled, or abandoned motor vehicle and its cargo;
         (b)   A motor vehicle to replace a damaged, disabled, or abandoned
motor vehicle;
         (c)   Parts and equipment to repair a damaged, disabled, or abandoned
motor vehicle;
         (d)   A motor vehicle whose driver has been declared unable to drive
by a law enforcement officer;
         (e)   A motor vehicle whose driver has been removed from the scene or
is unable to drive; or
         (f)   A motor vehicle repossessed or seized pursuant to lawful
authority.
      USE. The use for which land or buildings are occupied or maintained,
arranged, designed, or intended.
      USED TIRE. A tire that previously has been on a vehicle but that retains
suitable tread depth and is free of damage or defects so that it may be safely
returned to its original purpose.
      WASTE TIRE or SCRAP TIRE.
         (a)   A tire that is no longer suitable for its originally intended
purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
         (b)   This definition shall include a tire mounted on a rim but not on
a vehicle.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
NUISANCES
§ 90.20 MANUFACTURED HOME; MOBILE HOME SALVAGE.
   (A)   No manufactured home/mobile home shall be transported or moved into,
or installed on, any site in the county for the purpose of salvaging parts or
components of such homes for private or personal use, or for sale to others,
except that such homes may be transported to a licensed salvage yard.
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of this chapter, no manufactured home or mobile
home shall be installed, parked, or located on any site, lot, tract, or parcel
of land to be used for any purpose other than that for which the manufactured
home or mobile home was designed or intended.
      (2)   No person shall use any manufactured home or mobile home for the
sole purpose of the storage of any goods or materials, or for any purpose other
than that for which the manufactured home or mobile home was designed or
intended.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 SEWAGE.
   Sewage from residential and non-residential buildings shall be discharged
only into a waste disposal system permitted and approved by the State
Environment Department, except privies.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 90.22 SALVAGE YARDS.
   (A)   Salvage yards must be legally established in compliance with the laws
prevailing in the county, and all applicable state and federal environmental
laws and regulations. The owner/operator is responsible for identifying all
hazardous materials used, processed, stored, or handled at the facility, and
for maintaining updated qualitative and quantitative records of these materials
at the facility.
   (B)   The abandonment or unauthorized release of hazardous materials is
prohibited. No person shall cause, permit, suffer, or allow the usage, storage,
abandonment, or disposal of hazardous materials:
      (1)   In a manner which violates a provision of any federal, state, or
local government regulations; or
      (2)   In a manner which causes, or may cause, an unauthorized release of
hazardous material.
   (C)   All hazardous material shall be properly stored and be accessible to
inspection at anytime.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Salvage yard regulations, see
Chapter 112
§ 90.23 UNLAWFUL BURIAL.
   (A)   Application. This section applies only to the burial or disposal of
human remains outside of formally designated cemeteries, either public or
private.
   (B)   Unlawful burial.
      (1)   In accordance with NMSA § 30-12-14, no person shall use any land or
lands as a burial place or a place of interment within 50 yards from either
side of the bank or border of any stream, river, or any body of water.
      (2)   No person shall use any land or lands as a place of burial or a
place of interment within 100 yards of any county or state road, right-of-way,
easement, or other public way, unless such use preceded the effective date of
this section.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 WASTE TIRES; STORAGE, USE.
   (A)   Except for agricultural uses, a person shall not store or use for any
purpose on any site or lot in the county waste or scrap tires, baled or non-
baled, nor any processed tires, nor any used tires, without the owner of such
site or lot, or his or her authorized agent, obtaining a valid permit for such
storage or use from the county. Any use proposed shall be a beneficial use, and
whether such proposed use is judged to be beneficial shall be in the sole
discretion of the county. Excluded from this requirement are: a retail business
premises where new and used tires are normally sold, and a business where a
tire retreading business is carried on, provided no more than 500 waste or
scrap tires are kept on the business premises at any one time.
   (B)   No person shall engage in the open burning of scrap tires.
   (C)   A person shall not engage in, maintain, or allow illegal dumping of
used, waste, or scrap tires.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Opening burning, see §§
91.01 through 91.09,
91.99
§ 90.25 NOISE CAUSED BY UN-MUFFLED PIPES.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section is to ensure the citizens an
environment free from excessive sound caused by the use of an un-muffled
retarder device, commonly known as a “Jake brake,” or un-muffled straight
pipes, when a driver is attempting to slow a motor vehicle’s rate of speed
without the use of braking power and instead utilizing any exhaust and/or
engine device.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, or alley, or
similar place which is under the authority of the county or the state.
      RETARDER. Any exhaust and/or engine device used as braking power to slow
down a truck, automobile, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle’s rate of speed.
   (C)   Use of retarder devices prohibited. No person shall operate or cause
to be operated any motor vehicle in an attempt to slow the speed of the motor
vehicle with the use of an un-muffled retarder device, commonly known as a
“Jake brake,” or un-muffled straight pipes. It shall be an affirmative defense
that an un-muffled retarder and/or compression brakes were applied in an
emergency to protect persons and/or property.
      (1)   A violation of this section shall be cause for issue of a citation
and a complaint to be filed with the Magistrate Court for the county; and
      (2)   Any uniformed Sheriff’s Deputy shall have, in addition to any other
authority vested in him or her, the power to stop a motor-vehicle reasonably
suspected of violation of this section.
   (D)   Applicable rights-of-way exception.
      (1)   This section shall apply to all public rights-of-way (as defined
herein) within the county outside the boundaries of any municipality.
      (2)   Provided, however, that any such right-of-way or portion of right-
of-way within the county that has been designated by the State Department of
Transportation as a particularly hazardous road upon which the Department has
required the use of a “retarder or other exhaust and/or engine device used as
braking power,” to slow down a truck, automobile, motorcycle, or other motor
vehicle’s rate of speed shall not be subject to the prohibition contained in
this section.
(Ord. 57, passed 11-5-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 90.40 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Defined. The term DANGEROUS BUILDING, as used in this section, is
defined to mean and to include:
      (1)   Any dwelling or other building, with the exception of certain
agricultural buildings that still serve the purpose of storage of agricultural
equipment, supplies, tools, or parts, which is ruined, damaged, and dilapidated
and is dangerous or injurious to the public health, comfort, peace, or safety
of the occupants of the dwelling, the occupants of neighboring dwellings, or
other residents of the area because of its condition, or which has a blighting
influence on properties in the area. The conditions may include the following,
without limitations: defects increasing the hazards of fire, accident, or other
calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities;
dilapidation; disrepair; structural defects; uncleanliness; overcrowding;
inadequate ingress and egress; inadequate drainage; or any violation of health,
fire, building, or any other regulations relating to the use of land and the
use and occupancy of buildings and improvements; and
      (2)   Any such DANGEROUS BUILDING in the county is declared to be a
nuisance.
   (B)   Permiting of dangerous building. It is unlawful to maintain or permit
the existence of any dangerous building in the county or the failure to repair,
remodel, or renovate a building so designated or moved within the county; and
it is unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person in custody of any dangerous
building to permit the same to remain in a dangerous condition, or to occupy
such building or permit it to be occupied while it remains in a dangerous
condition.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 REMOVAL OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS, DEBRIS.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions of §
90.43(B), whenever any building or structure, except for an agricultural
building which is currently used for the purpose of storage of agricultural
equipment, supplies, tools, or parts, is ruined, damaged, and dilapidated, or
any property is covered with ruins, rubbish, refuse, wreckage, or debris, the
Board of County Commissioners may, by resolution, find that the ruined,
damaged, or dilapidated building, structure, or property is a menace to the
public health, safety, peace, or comfort and require the removal of the
building, structure, ruins, rubbish, refuse wreckage, or debris. COVERED, for
purposes of this section, shall mean any part of the subject property.
   (B)   (1)   A copy of the resolution shall be served on the owner, occupant,
or agent in charge of the building, structure, or property.
      (2)   If the owner, as shown by the real estate records of the County
Clerk, occupant, or agent in charge of the building, structure, or property
cannot be served within the county, a copy of the resolution shall be posted on
the building structure or property, and a copy of the resolution shall be
published one time.
   (C)   Within ten days of the receipt of a copy of the resolution or of the
posting and the publishing of a copy of the resolution, the owner, occupant, or
agent in charge of the building, structure, or property shall commence removing
the building, structure, ruin, rubbish, refuse, wreckage, or debris, or file a
written objection with the County Manager asking for a hearing before the Board
of County Commissioners.
   (D)   If a written objection is filed as required by this section, the Board
of County Commissioners shall:
      (1)   Fix a date for a hearing on its resolution and the objection;
      (2)   Consider all evidence for and against the removal resolution at the
hearing; and
      (3)   Determine if its resolution should be enforced or rescinded.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by the determination of the Board of County
Commissioners may appeal to the district court by:
      (1)   Giving notice of appeal to the Board of County Commissioners within
five days after the determination made by the Board of County Commissioners;
and
      (2)   Filing a petition in District Court within 20 days after the
determination by the Board of County Commissioners. The District Court shall
hear the matter de novo and enter judgment in accordance with its findings.
   (F)   If the owner, occupant, or agent in charge of the building, structure,
or property fails to commence removing the building, structure, ruins, rubbish,
refuse, wreckage, or debris within ten days of being served a copy of the
resolution or of the posting and the publishing of the resolution, or within
five days of the determination by the governing body that the resolution shall
be enforced;
      (2)   After the district court enters a judgment sustaining the
determination of the Board of County Commissioners, the county may remove the
building, structure, ruins, rubbish, refuse, wreckage, or debris at the cost
and expense of the owner.
      (3)   The reasonable cost of the removal shall constitute a lien against
the building, structure, ruins, rubbish, refuse, wreckage, or debris so removed
and against the lot or parcel of land from which it was removed. The lien shall
be foreclosed in the manner provided in NMSA §§ 3-36-1 through 3-36-6.
   (G)   The county may pay for the costs of removal of any condemned building,
structure, ruins, rubbish, refuse, wreckage, or debris by granting to the
person removing such materials the legal right to all salvageable materials in
lieu of all other compensation.
   (H)   Any person or firm removing any condemned building, structure, ruins,
rubbish, refuse, wreckage, or debris shall leave the property from which the
material has been removed in a clean, level, and safe condition for further
occupancy or construction, and with all excavations filled.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 90.42 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, EMERGENCY or IMMINENT DANGER shall mean
any condition which could cause serious or life-threatening injury or death at
any time.
   (B)   (1)   Where, in the opinion of the Building Official, or the Code
Compliance Officer, there is imminent danger of failure or collapse of a
building or structure which endangers life, or when any structure or part of a
structure has fallen and life is endangered by the occupation of the structure,
or when there is actual or potential danger to the building occupants or those
in the proximity of any structure because of explosives, explosive fumes, or
vapors, or the presence of toxic fumes, gases, or materials, or operation of
defective or dangerous equipment, the Building Official or the Code Compliance
Officer, with the approval of the County Planning Director, or the County
Manager, is hereby authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants
to vacate the premises forthwith.
      (2)   The County Planning Director, or the Building Official or the Code
Compliance Officer shall cause to be posted at the entrance to such structure a
notice reading as follows: “This Structure is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been
Prohibited by the County Code Compliance Officer (or the Building Official).”
      (3)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure
except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition, or of demolishing the structure.
         (b)   In determining the nature and extent of the imminent danger, the
Building Official or the Code Compliance Officer, with the approval of the
County Planning Director or the County Manager, may engage the services of a
professional engineer licensed in the state, or other knowledgeable
professional.
   (C)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Code Compliance Officer or the
Building Official, there is imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the
Code Compliance Officer, with the approval of the County Planning Director or
the County Manager, may order the boarding up of openings, to render such
structure temporarily safe, or take such other action as the Code Compliance
Officer or the Building Official deems necessary to meet such emergency.
   (D)   When necessary for public safety, the Code Compliance Officer or the
Building Official, with the approval of the County Planning Director or the
County Manager, shall temporarily close structures and/or order the authority
having jurisdiction to close sidewalks, streets, roads, public ways, and places
adjacent to unsafe structures and prohibit the same from being utilized.
   (E)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing §
90.41, the Code Compliance Officer, with the approval of the County Planning
Director or the County Manager, may employ the necessary labor and materials to
perform the required emergency work as expeditiously as possible.
   (F)   (1)   Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work shall be
paid by the county.
      (2)   The County Attorney shall institute all appropriate action against
the owner of the premises where the unsafe structure is, or was, located for
the recovery of such costs.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Following the inspection of a property and/or building, the Officer
may, or on request of the owner, or his or her authorized agent, issue a
certificate of compliance if, in his or her opinion, the property and/or
building is in compliance with the standards of this chapter.
   (B)   When pertaining to this chapter, a fee shall be paid to the county
prior to the issuance of a certificate of compliance where it is issued at the
request of the owner or his or her authorized agent in an amount prescribed by
the Board of County Commissioners, which amount shall be not less than $100.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 90.44 PROHIBITION.
   The Code Compliance Officer may issue a notice prohibiting the occupancy of
any unsafe or uninhabitable building.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.55 MAINTENANCE OF NUISANCE.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain, or allow the
creation or maintenance of a
nuisance.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.56 ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Code Compliance Officer, the County Sheriff, and any other official
designated by the Board of County Commissioners, or the County Manager, shall
be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter and any
other code or ordinance directed by the appropriate county authority.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 90.57 INSPECTORS.
   Any Building Inspector of the County Planning Office, and the County Fire
Marshal, and any electrical inspector of the state, and any plumbing inspector
of the state, and any environmentalist of the State Environment Department, and
any manufactured housing division inspector of the state, and any engineer or
technician, or technologist or water resource specialist, of the State
Engineer’s office, and any other qualified person, may be authorized by the
Code Compliance Officer to help enforce the standards set out in this chapter,
or may be requested by the Code Compliance Officer to give a written report, or
other advice, to aid in the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 90.58 NOTICE OF NUISANCE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any condition or situation which violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance, both public and private in nature.
   (B)   In addition to the criminal penalties provided for in this chapter,
any such nuisance, after reasonable efforts to secure voluntary compliance with
this chapter have failed, shall be subject to abatement as follows.
      (1)   Notice of nuisance.
         (a)   If, after inspection, as the result of a complaint by member of
the public, or the observation of any county or state employee, the Officer is
satisfied that a nuisance does exist, the Officer shall serve, or cause to be
served by personal service, or send by prepaid registered mail to the owner of
record of the property, or to the occupant or tenant of the property, or both,
and to all persons shown by the records to have an interest in the property, a
notice of nuisance or violation setting out the particulars of the violation
(s). The notice shall establish that the abatement of the violation(s) by the
owner or occupant, or tenant or both, shall begin in not more than ten days,
and shall be completed in not more than 90 days after service of the notice.
The notice shall be served at the owner’s or occupant’s, or tenant’s, last
known address.
         (b)   In the event a violation of this chapter constitutes an
immediate danger to the public health and safety, the notice provisions of this
division (B)(1) shall not apply, and the violation may be prosecuted and abated
immediately.
      (2)   Placard. If the Code Compliance Officer is unable to achieve
service under division (B)(1)(a) above, he or she may place a placard
containing the terms of the notice in a conspicuous place on the property or
building, and the placing of the placard shall be deemed to be sufficient
service of the notice on the owner or other persons.
      (3)   Extension of timeframe for abatement. Where the Officer is
satisfied that there is good and sufficient reason to extend the timeframe for
abatement of the violation(s), he or she may extend the timeframe set out in
division (B)(1)(a) above for a period of time not to exceed 45 days beyond the
time period set out in the original notice.
      (4)   Failure to abate. In the event the owner, occupant, or tenant of
the property where the nuisance violation exists has failed to abate the
nuisance violation(s) within the prescribed period of time, then the Officer
shall issue a citation or file a complaint charging violation of this chapter
with the Magistrate Court, or other appropriate court of jurisdiction,
demanding that the owner of the property or the occupant, or both, be held to
answer to the court for the violation.
      (5)   Removal of nuisance. In the event that the person is convicted of
violating this chapter and continues to refuse to abate the violations, the
county or aggrieved property owner may enforce this section in any manner
consistent with law.
      (6)   Injunctions.
         (a)   The county or aggrieved property owner, when a nuisance exists
as set forth herein, may institute civil proceedings in Magistrate Court or
District Court to enjoin all persons from maintaining or permitting, the
nuisance and to abate the same, and for civil damages as may be appropriate.
         (b)   Costs and attorneys fees shall be elements of damage in any
proceeding.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 90.59 CITATION UNIFORM NON-TRAFFIC.
   The use of uniform non-traffic citation forms is authorized for use in
enforcement of this chapter, except as otherwise provided.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person violating or failing, or refusing to comply with the
provisions of this chapter and the codes adopted may be prosecuted in any court
of competent jurisdiction within the county, and shall be punished by:
         (a)   A fine of not more than $300;
         (b)   A fine of not more than $1,000 for discarding or disposing of
refuse, litter, or garbage on public or private property in any manner other
than by disposing it in an authorized landfill; and/or
         (c)   A fine of not more than $5,000 for the improper or illegal
disposal of hazardous materials or waste in any manner other than as provided
for in the Hazardous Waste Act (NMSA Chapter 74, Article 4); and in accordance
with NMSA § 4-37-3.
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners may apply to the District Court
for appropriate injunctive relief to compel compliance by any person whose
conduct violates any provision of this chapter. The county shall be entitled to
recover a reasonable attorney’s fee if required to enforce this chapter through
the issuance of a demand letter, or in enforcing any portion of this chapter in
any court of competent jurisdiction. After the effective date of this chapter,
all violations are subject to issuance of a citation.
   (B)   Anyone who does not comply with §
90.23 is guilty of a misdemeanor
   (C)   Any person violating §
90.25 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300 or by imprisonment not
to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 57, passed 11-5-2004; Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
Open Burning
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Authority
   
91.03   Applicability
   
91.04   Definitions
   
91.05   Prohibited burning
   
91.06   Permitted open burning
   
91.07   Exemptions
   
91.08   Burn notice application process
 
   
91.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Luna County Open Burning Regulation
Ordinance” or “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-2013; Res. 25-47, passed 7-10-2025)
§ 91.02 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted to counties
under NMSA §§ 4-37-1 through 4-37-3, 68-2-23, and 68-5-1 et seq. (1978), and in
accordance with 20.2.60 NMAC (Open Burning), to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the public through the responsible regulation of open burning.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-2013; Res. 25-47, passed 7-10-2025)
§ 91.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to all open burning conducted within the
unincorporated areas of the county.
(Res. 25-47, passed 7-10-2025)
§ 91.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN BURNING. Any fire where the products of combustion are emitted directly
into the ambient air without passing through a chimney or stack.
   PROHIBITED MATERIALS. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Plastics;
      (2)   Rubber;
      (3)   Tires;
      (4)   Treated or painted wood;
      (5)   Insulation;
      (6)   Construction and demolition debris;
      (7)   Household garbage and refuse;
      (8)   Asbestos-containing materials;
      (9)   Hazardous waste;
      (10)   Petroleum-based products (e.g., roofing tar and the like);
      (11)   Electrical wiring or appliances; and
      (12)   Any material that emits toxic fumes when burned.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-2013; Res. 25-47, passed 7-10-2025)
§ 91.05 PROHIBITED BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall conduct open burning of any prohibited materials.
   (B)   No burning shall be conducted during:
      (1)   Red flag warnings issued by the National Weather Service;
      (2)   Periods when wind speeds exceed 15 mph; or
      (3)   Active fire bans issued by state or county authorities or draught
emergencies.
   (C)   Burning must not occur within 50 feet of any structure or combustible
fence.
(Res. 25-47, passed 7-10-2025)
§ 91.06 PERMITTED OPEN BURNING.
   Open burning may be conducted only under the following conditions:
   (A)   A valid county burn notice has been issued;
   (B)   The burn is attended at all times by an adult;
   (C)   Water, shovel, extinguisher, or other fire suppression tools are
present;
   (D)   Burning occurs between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., weather permitting;
   (E)   Burn area is cleared of flammable vegetation within a 25-foot radius;
   (F)   Only approved ignition methods are used:
      (1)   Auxiliary fuels no heavier than No. 2 diesel may be used, in the
minimum quantity necessary to start the burn; and
      (2)   Approved incendiary devices may be used if compliant with the same
fuel standards.
   (G)   Daily burn limits shall not exceed:
      (1)   Ten acres per day for non-piled vegetative material; and
      (2)   One thousand cubic feet per day for piled vegetative material.
   (H)   Burns exceeding these limits require compliance with 20.2.65 NMAC
(Smoke Management). For these burns, the applicant must:
      (1)   Submit a smoke management burn plan to the New Mexico Environment
Department (NMED);
      (2)   Receive prior approval from NMED before ignition;
      (3)   Implement emission reduction techniques including fuel moisture
monitoring, timing for dispersion, and contingency actions for smoke
intrusions; and
      (4)   Maintain records and report burn outcomes to NMED as required.
   (I)   The applicant follows all permit conditions and public safety
directions.
(Res. 25-47, passed 7-10-2025)
§ 91.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Agricultural burning exemption. Agricultural burning that is a
standard part of a commercial agricultural operation (e.g., ditch burning,
field clearing, pest/disease control, and the like) is exempt from permit
requirements, provided that:
      (1)   It is conducted in accordance with best management practices
(BMPs);
      (2)   There is no state or local burn ban in effect; and
      (3)   The fire poses no hazard to life or property.
   (B)   Ceremonial and cultural burning. Open fires used for cultural,
religious, or ceremonial purposes (e.g., tribal practices, seasonal ceremonies,
and the like) are exempt, provided that:
      (1)   Reasonable fire safety measures are taken; and
      (2)   Burning of prohibited materials is strictly avoided.
(Res. 25-47, passed 7-10-2025)
§ 91.08 BURN NOTICE APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Applicants must:
      (1)   Submit a completed burn notice application;
      (2)   Provide details including name, contact information, burn location,
material to be burned, date, and time;
      (3)   Signature acknowledging compliance with this ordinance and safety
practices;
      (4)   Notices may be approved, denied, or revoked by the Planning
Department or fire personnel.
   (B)   Notices are valid only for the date(s) indicated and may be revoked
for noncompliance or hazardous conditions.
(Res. 25-47, passed 7-10-2025)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of §§ 91.09 throughout
91.08 are subject to the following pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 4-37-3:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $500;
      (2)   Imprisonment not exceeding 90 days; or
      (3)   Both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   The county may recover the costs of emergency response or fire
suppression services resulting from illegal or non-compliant burning
activities.
   (D)   Violations may also be referred to the State Environment Department or
other applicable state agencies for further enforcement under 20.2.60 NMAC.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-2013; Res. 25-47, passed 7-10-2025)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Short title
   
92.002   Definitions
   
92.003   Enforcement
   
92.004   Protective measures against wolves
Owner’s Duties
   
92.015   Animal vaccinations
   
92.016   Sterilization; agreement, deposit
   
92.017   Restraint and control requirements
   
92.018   Animal identification
   
92.019   Care, maintenance of animals
   
92.020   Animal waste
Prohibited Activities
   
92.035   Animals biting persons
   
92.036   Abandonment
   
92.037   Animal nuisances
   
92.038   Animals at large
   
92.039   Animals transported in vehicles
   
92.040   Breaking into animal control facilities or vehicles
   
92.041   Cruelty to animals
   
92.042   Vicious, dangerous animals
   
92.043   Unlawful use of vaccination certificates
   
92.044   Safety and use of fireworks
   
92.045   Restrictions on sale or transfer of ownership
Exotic Animals
   
92.060   Exotic animal registration
Permits, Agreements, and Fees Required
   
92.075   Permits
   
92.076   Agreements
   
92.077   Fees
Animal Control Officer and Impoundment Procedures
   
92.090   Authority of the Animal Control Officer
   
92.091   Responsibilities of the Animal Control Officer
   
92.092   Impounding animals
Administration
   
92.105   Procedures for complaints
   
92.106   Procedure for Sheriff and Animal Control Officer
Violations
   
92.120   Suspension, revocations of permits
   
92.121   Appeal procedures for permit denial, suspension, revocation of permit
Release of Predatory Animals
   
92.135   Short title
   
92.136   Definitions
   
92.137   Requirements
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Luna County Animal Control Ordinance” and
is referred to hereinafter as “this ordinance” or “this chapter.” It is the
intent of the Board of County Commissioners that enactment of this chapter will
protect animals from neglect and abuse, protect residents from annoyance and
injury, encourage responsible ownership of animals as pets, and assist in
providing housing for animals in an animal shelter.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 92.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT.
      (1)   To leave an animal for more than 24 hours without making provisions
for proper feeding, watering, or shelter, including shade and care;
      (2)   To dispose, dump, or leave any animal, living or dead, on property
other than one’s own without consent of that property owner and, with consent,
without making provision for the adequate feeding, watering, and shelter of the
domestic animal; or
      (3)   The failure to reclaim an impounded animal.
   ADOPTION. The retrieval of any animal from the county designated animal
shelter and assumption of responsibility for proper care in accordance with
this chapter.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate or invertebrate member of the animal kingdom, except
humans, provided that livestock, except as may be specifically referred to
herein, are specifically exempt from this chapter.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER (ACO). Any person designated by the county, directly
or through any contractor, and any person designated as such with the authority
to enforce animal control laws, ordinances, and regulations. The County
Sheriff, and his or her deputies, have the statutory authority to enforce this
chapter and take every action an ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER is hereunder authorized
to undertake; all references herein to an ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER incorporates
by reference the County Sheriff and the County Sheriff’s Deputies.
   ANIMAL NUISANCES. Any animal:
      (1)   Habitually or continuously barking, howling, or otherwise
disturbing the inhabitants of the county;
      (2)   Kept and/or maintained in a manner as to disturb by noise and/or
noxious or offensive odors; or
      (3)   That endangers the health and welfare of the inhabitants of the
county.
   ANIMAL RESCUE. Any facility operated by a licensed or permitted person or
organization that rescues animals for the purpose of temporarily taking custody
of, and caring for, eight or more animals at any one time until a permanent
home or placement is found and is prohibited from the breeding of animals or
operating a breeding facility.
   ANIMAL SANCTUARY or REFUGE (FACILITY). Any facility or premises operated by
a licensed or permitted person or non-profit organization, or member of the
same, recognized by the county as an animal humane organization, where such
facility or premises is operated for the purpose of taking permanent or
indefinite custody, providing care, and bringing aid and comfort to more than
eight or more animals at any one time to animals that are not adoptable or
transferrable, after exhaustion of all reasonable efforts to adopt or place
such animals into a permanent home. Animals may not be bred and must be
sterilized within 30 days of placement into custody of said ANIMAL SANCTUARY or
REFUGE.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated privately by a non-profit animal
humane entity and established or authorized by a municipality or county of the
state for the purpose of bringing aid and comfort, housing, care, and custody
of eight or more lost, stray, injured, unwanted, or impounded animals, and
where animals are not bred or allowed to breed.
   ATTACK. To bite, scratch, knock down, or chase.
   BASIC GROOMING. Examination, attention, and acts necessary to maintain eyes,
ears, feet, nails, teeth, coat, and skin of an animal in a healthy condition,
but does not include acts for the purposes of maintaining appearance only.
   BASIC MEDICAL CARE. Reasonable medical care required by the species,
including, but not limited to, required vaccinations, examination by a
veterinarian, prompt veterinary care when required by age and species,
appropriate internal and external parasite control, and emergency medical care
when required.
   BITE. One or more punctures of skin from a single bite with any punctures of
half the length, or greater, of the animal’s canine teeth. Multiple scratches
or lacerations in more than one direction and inflicted by the claws or teeth
of an animal that results in tearing of flesh will also be treated as a BITE
for the purposes of quarantine.
   BREEDER. Any licensed or permitted person or organization established for
the purpose of breeding female dogs or cats to produce offspring with the
intent to sell, gift, or otherwise transfer ownership of the offspring. All
animals older than six months of age must have intact animal licenses.
Breeding, for the purposes of sale to commercial outlets or for the purpose of
research, testing, or laboratory experiments, is not permitted. BREEDER does
not include owners with fewer than eight animals with one or more permitted
intact animals and with no more than two litters of animals in any calendar
year for the location.
   BREEDING FACILITY. A permitted or licensed facility that exists for profit
and where animals are bred for sale to third parties. All animals older than
six months must have intact animal licenses.
   CANINE HYBRID. A dog resulting from the breeding of a domestic species with
that of a wild species or breed of canine, such as a wolf or coyote, and
because of its wolf or coyote ancestry, cannot be vaccinated against rabies
effectively. Any animal that, at any time, has been advertised, described, or
represented as a CANINE HYBRID, wolf-dog, or wolf hybrid by its owner shall be
considered a CANINE HYBRID for purposes of this chapter. An animal shall not be
judged to be a CANINE HYBRID based strictly on its appearance.
   COMPLAINT. A report that alleges violation of this chapter, or a statute or
regulation related to animals, made on a standardized form submitted to the
county or its designated contractor, or received by the County Sheriff or the
public animal shelter.
   CONFINEMENT. The restriction, detainment, or isolation of an animal at all
times by the owner or keeper by secure fence, kennel (as enclosure), or cage to
prevent escape and inadvertent or unsupervised contact with the public.
   CONTRACTOR. The person or entity engaged, retained, or hired by the county
to enforce this chapter and operate the public animal shelter.
   COUNTY. The unincorporated areas within the jurisdictional boundaries of
Luna County, New Mexico.
   COUNTY MANAGER. The County Manager, or designated representative(s).
   CUSTODY. A person or owner that has possession of an animal for more than
seven consecutive days or more than 14 days in any month, excluding
veterinarians or licensed kennels temporarily maintaining animals owned by
others on their property. It does not mean physical control, confinement, or
restraint.
   CRUELTY. The intentional killing of an animal without lawful justification,
or mistreating, injuring, maiming, disfiguring, tormenting, torturing, beating,
mutilating, burning, scalding, poisoning, attempting to poison, or otherwise
unnecessarily causing an animal to suffer physical or emotional harm. Any of
the following may be deemed a separate act of CRUELTY:
      (1)   Failing to meet any standard of care in this chapter;
      (2)   Failing to provide necessary sustenance to an animal under that
person’s custody or control;
      (3)   Failing to provide adequate shelter;
      (4)   Failing to provide potable water;
      (5)   Failing to provide palatable, nutritious food of adequate quantity;
      (6)   Taunting an animal;
      (7)   Leaving an animal inside an enclosed vehicle when the temperature
is such that is will cause pain, suffering or death;
      (8)   Abandonment or neglect of an animal;
      (9)   Failing to take action when an animal is in need of basic or
emergency medical care;
      (10)   Ear-cropping, de-barking, tail docking, or alteration by a non-
veterinarian; and/or
      (11)   Euthanasia by an unqualified or licensed person, or when not
conducted as humanely as possible when circumstances do not allow for a
qualified or licensed person.
   DISPOSITION.
      (1)   Adoption of an animal;
      (2)   Return of an animal to the owner;
      (3)   Release of an animal to a rescue organization;
      (4)   Release of an animal to another animal shelter or to a
rehabilitator licensed by the State Department of Game and Fish or the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service; or
      (5)   Euthanasia of an animal.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Dogs, cats, wolf hybrids, coyote hybrids, domestic ferrets,
and other animals commonly known and kept as domestic pets.
   EMERGENCY FIELD EUTHANASIA. The process to cause the death of an animal in
an emergency situation when safe and humane transport of the animal is not
possible.
   EMERGENCY MEASURES. Any action taken by an animal control officer in order
to preserve the health and/or life of an animal or human being, including, but
not limited to, entering vehicles or premises, given probable cause, and
detaining the animal to prevent imminent suffering, serious harm, or death to
the animal, a human, or another animal.
   ENCLOSED. A parcel of land completely surrounded at the perimeter by a wall
or fence of sufficient height and strength to contain animals within, or by an
electric or invisible fencing that has been approved by the Animal Control Unit
Supervisor, or his or her designee. UNENCLOSED, as used herein, shall mean a
parcel of land not completely surrounded at the perimeter by a wall or fence of
sufficient height and strength to contain animals within.
   ESTABLISHMENT. A place of business together with its grounds and equipment.
   EUTHANASIA. To produce a humane death of an animal by standards deemed
acceptable by the Board of Veterinary Medicine as set forth in its rules.
   EUTHANASIA AGENCY. A facility that provides shelter to animals on a regular
basis, including a small animal impound facility, a humane society, or a public
or private shelter facility that temporarily houses stray, unwanted, or injured
animals, and that performs euthanasia.
   EUTHANASIA DRUGS. Non-narcotic Schedule II or Schedule III substances and
chemicals as set forth in the Controlled Substances Act, NMSA §§ 30-31-1 et
seq., that are used for the purposes of euthanasia and pre-euthanasia of
animals.
   EUTHANASIA TECHNICIAN. A person licensed by the State Veterinary Board to
euthanize animals for a euthanasia agency.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. An animal of a species not commonly kept as a household pet
or for food and fiber production, but does not include domesticated birds or
ferrets. EXOTIC ANIMALS may or may not be native to the area and may or may not
be governed by existing wildlife regulations and, regardless of training or
domestication, are prohibited under this chapter unless otherwise specifically
allowed by federal or state law. This category does not include WILD ANIMALS.
   EXPOSURE TO RABIES. An exposure resulting from a bite by an animal
susceptible to rabies or from contact of the saliva of such animal with any
break or abrasion of the skin.
   FELINE HYBRID.
      (1)   A cat resulting from the breeding of a domestic species with that
of a wild species or breed of feline, such as an African Serval cat, and
because of its ancestry cannot be vaccinated against rabies effectively.
      (2)   Any animal that, at any time, has been advertised, described, or
represented as a FELINE HYBRID by its owner shall be considered a FELINE HYBRID
for purposes of this chapter.
      (3)   An animal shall not be judged to be a FELINE HYBRID based strictly
on its appearance.
   FERAL ANIMAL. Any animal existing in the wild, living in an untamed state,
or that is a stray and has returned to an untamed state from domestication.
   GROOMING PARLOR. An establishment, or part thereof, maintained for the
purpose of performing cosmetic services for animals including, but not limited
to, bathing, brushing, grooming, and nail trimming.
   GUARD DOG. A dog that is used to protect a commercial property, but excludes
a dog used exclusively to guard livestock.
   HARBOR. To allow stray animals to accumulate on one’s premises by feeding
them without making effective provisions, as required by this chapter, for
their restraint, vaccinations, socialization, sterilization, or other care, or
attempting to humanely trap, neuter, and return.
   HOBBY BREEDER. A person involved in showing or controlled breeding of dogs
and cats that are registered with a nationally or internationally recognized
canine or feline registry organization.
   HOUSEHOLD. One or more individuals, related or not, occupying the premises
and/or residing at one street address. A HOUSEHOLD pet or animal is a DOMESTIC
ANIMAL.
   IMMEDIATE CONTROL. The ability to exercise direct physical control over an
animal by a capable and competent person by use of a secure collar or harness,
a secure leash in conjunction with a properly fitting harness, or a secure and
appropriate portable animal crate or cage.
   IMPOUNDING FACILITIES. Any animal control center, pound, animal shelter,
kennel, veterinary hospital, lot premises, or building maintained or contracted
by a municipality or county for the care and custody of animals.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The taking into custody or confinement in a facility designated
for the keeping or confinement of such animals.
   INSPECTION. A physical or visual inspection by an animal control officer of
any premises or animal for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the
provisions of the chapter.
   INTACT ANIMAL. An animal that has not been sterilized.
   ISOLATION. The confinement of an animal in an escape-proof run or cage so
that there is no possibility of direct contact with other animals or humans.
   KENNEL. An establishment operated by a person or entity for profit where
dogs or cats are temporarily housed or boarded, kept, or maintained for
grooming, breeding, boarding, training, or selling to individuals regardless of
whether it is operated by a person or person(s), or entity . The sale or
transfer of animals to commercial outlets or for the purposes of research,
testing, or laboratory experimentation is prohibited.
   LIVESTOCK. Horses, cattle, llamas, pigs, sheep, goats, rabbits, fowl, or any
other domestic animals typically used in the production of food, fiber, or
other products or activities defined by the County Manager, or his or her
designee, as agricultural are exempt from sections included in this chapter
unless specifically addressed as “applies to section.”
   MICROCHIP IMPLANT. A passive electronic device that is injected into an
animal by means of a hypodermic-type syringe device. Each MICROCHIP shall
contain a unique and original number that is read by an electronic scanning
device for purposes of animal identification and recovery by the animal’s
owners.
   MICROCHIP READER. An electronic scanner with an operating frequency that is
able to detect a microchip that has been implanted in an animal and displays
the number of the microchip to its operator.
   MISREPRESENTATION OF PEDIGREE. Either the giving, obtaining,
misrepresenting, or exhibiting of any type of registry certificate or transfer
certificate pertaining to the pedigree registry of any animal, knowing such
certificate to be false or misleading, or to have been secured by means of
false pretenses or false representations.
   MULTIPLE ANIMAL SITE OR FACILITY. Any premises where eight or more dogs and/
or eight or more cats of at least six months of age, excluding litters and
animals less than six months of age, are kept as companion animals. A MULTIPLE
ANIMAL SITE OR FACILITY is a facility that is not operated as or required to be
permitted as an animal rescue, animal sanctuary or refuge, animal shelter,
kennel, or breeding facility, and where the business of buying, selling,
breeding, training, or boarding for compensation or profit is prohibited and
not carried on, with the exception that the sale of not more than two litters
per year is allowed. The operation of a MULTIPLE ANIMAL SITE OR FACILITY FOR
COMMERCIALS PURPOSES means any premises where eight or more dogs and/or cats of
at least six months of age are kept where the business of buying, selling,
breeding, training, or boarding for compensation or profit is conducted and
requires a separate permit for each commercial activity, but does not include
veterinary clinics or hospitals, the County Animal Shelter, or a research
laboratory.
   NEGLECT. To leave an animal without sufficient quantity of good quality
food, water, or shelter for more than 24 hours, regardless of whether such
action or inaction is intentional or voluntary. For any dog left outside and
unattended for more than 30 minutes during any period, the following must be
provided: the shelter shall be moisture-proof and wind-proof, and of suitable
size to accommodate the dog, allowing for freedom of movement to make normal
postural adjustments, including the ability to stand, turn around, and lie down
with limbs outstretched. It shall be made of durable material with a solid,
moisture-proof floor raised at least three inches from the ground. The roof
shall extend over the doorway and not permit rain to enter inside the shelter.
The shelter shall not be constructed of metal or any material that readily
conducts heat or cold. Between November 1 and March 31, structures must have a
windbreak at the entrance and must contain a sufficient quantity of suitable,
clean bedding material consisting of straw, cedar shavings, or the equivalent
to protect against cold and dampness. Hay, blankets, rags, and other materials
that retain moisture shall not be utilized for bedding. Between May 1 and
October 31 of any year, all dogs must be afforded one or more areas of shade by
natural or artificial means large enough to accommodate the entire body of the
dog at one time to provide protection from the direct rays of the sun. Shaded
areas must be separate and outside of any shelter. OUTSIDE AND UNATTENDED, for
purposes of this section, shall mean any dog who is confined outdoors for a
duration of longer than 30 minutes and not in visual range and physical
presence of the owner.
   OWNER/CARETAKER/RESPONSIBLE PERSON. A person 18 years of age or older, or
the parent or guardian of a person under 18 years of age, group of persons, or
business entity who owns, harbors, keeps an animal, has one in his or her care,
or permits any animal to remain on or about the premises owned or controlled by
him or her. OWNER shall also mean any governmental entity owning, keeping, or
harboring any animal that has been kept in captivity or confinement for more
than 30 consecutive days.
   PEACE OFFICER. Any duly appointed Animal Control Officer, County Sheriff’s
Deputy, or other law enforcement officer within the jurisdiction or boundaries
of the county.
   PERSON. An individual, household, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
society, association, or legal entity, and every officer, agent, or employee
thereof.
   PERSON/OWNER. Any person, group, or entity who possesses, keeps, harbors, or
has control or custody of an animal, or who knowingly permits the possession,
harboring, control, or custody of an animal on his, her, or their property.
   PET IDENTIFICATION. A rabies tag, the county license tag, microchip tag, or
PET IDENTIFICATION tag providing the owner contact information.
   PET MILL. A facility or person excluded from the definition of a breeder,
and not licensed or required to be licensed as a breeding facility, that has
any animals without intact animal permits or that has intact animal permits but
where more than two litters of animals are produced in any calendar year. Such
facilities are prohibited and such facilities that are operated for the purpose
of breeding animals for compensation, or profit that emphasizes profit or gain
over animal welfare, will be subject to prosecution. Such facilities are
generally of substandard animal welfare conditions and where animals are often
afflicted by infectious diseases, such as parvo and distemper. Substandard
conditions include, but are not limited to, overbreeding, inbreeding, minimal
or no veterinary care, poor quality or insufficient food or shelter, lack of
socialization with humans and/or other animals, overcrowding, makeshift cages,
and frequent death or euthanasia of animals. Such substandard conditions are
intended to be addressed through regulatory enforcement.
   PET SHOP. Any premises, social media, or internet site or posting, or part
thereof, which engages in the purchase, sale, exchange, or hire of animals of
any type, except that the term shall not apply to shelters or premises used
exclusively for the sale of livestock.
   PREMISES. A parcel of land and the structures thereon.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Secure confinement indoors or outdoors, such as in a
fenced yard, locked pen, or other structure, such structure being designed to
prevent the animal from escaping the confined area and also preventing young
children from entering the confined area, but does not include chaining,
restraining, or otherwise affixing the animal to a stationary object.
   PROFESSIONAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any kennel, grooming parlor, or pet
shops, with the exception of state inspected veterinary hospitals and federally
inspected laboratory facilities and zoos.
   POULTRY. Any chicken, duck, goose, turkey, or similar bird.
   QUALIFIED ASSISTANCE ANIMAL.
      (1)   A dog trained or being trained by a recognized school for training
dogs to assist persons with disabilities;
      (2)   An animal recognized as a service animal pursuant to the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
      (3)   Any other animal approved by the State Governor’s Commission on
Disability as acceptable in public places and trained to provide a defined
special assistance to a person with a disability.
   QUARANTINE. Detention or isolation of an animal in order to observe for
rabies providing for the strict containment of an animal in isolation pursuant
to authority under this chapter, or by order of the District Health Officer,
within a closed cage or paddock to control the spread of rabies or other
contagious disease.
   RABIES-SUSPECT ANIMAL. Any animal which has been exposed to or is suspected
of having been exposed to rabies through a bite by any other animal, or through
contact with any other animal known or reasonably suspected to be infected with
rabies. Any such animal is subject to state regulation and/or statute.
   RECLAIM. The retrieval of a domestic animal from the animal shelter by its
owner or responsible person. The reclamation period within which an animal’s
owner may RECLAIM their animal from the County Animal Shelter is five business
days in which the shelter is open to the public for at least four continuous
hours.
   RECOGNIZED. The acknowledgment of validity and approval, such approval to be
affirmed or granted by the County Manager, unless specific alternate authority
is noted herein.
   RESCUE. To legally set free from danger.
   RESTRAINT. Keeping any animal under the immediate control of a responsible
person on a leash or lead.
   RESTITUTION. A monetary amount awarded by a court of competent jurisdiction
to compensate a victim whose person or property, including animals, has been
injured, killed, or damaged by another animal as a result of a violation of
this chapter, but specifically excludes any fines or penalties imposed under
this chapter or any applicable statute, rule, or regulation.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Free of physical restraint on private or public property
other than that belonging to, occupied by, or controlled by the owner of the
animal, and the animal is not under the physical control of the owner or not
obedient to the owner’s commands.
   SERIOUS INJURY. A physical injury that results in broken bones, multiple
bites, or disfiguring lacerations requiring sutures or reconstructive surgery.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. Any of the following animals, as defined in NMSA § 28-11-2,
now or as subsequently amended, including:
      (1)   EMOTIONAL SUPPORT ANIMAL, COMFORT ANIMAL, or THERAPY ANIMAL shall
mean an animal selected to accompany an individual with a disability that does
not work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability,
and does not accompany at all times an individual with a disability; and
      (2)   QUALIFIED SERVICE ANIMAL shall mean any qualified service dog or
qualified service miniature horse that has been or is being trained to provide
assistance to an individual with a disability; but QUALIFIED SERVICE ANIMAL
does not include a pet, an emotional support animal, a comfort animal, or a
therapy animal.
         (a)   QUALIFIED SERVICE DOG shall mean a dog that has been trained or
is being trained to work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with
a disability, who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits
one or more major life activities.
         (b)   QUALIFIED SERVICE MINIATURE HORSE shall mean a miniature horse
that has been trained or is being trained to work or perform tasks for the
benefit of an individual with a disability, who has a physical or mental
impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
   SHERIFF. The County Sheriff, or his or her designee.
   SPECIAL ANIMAL PERMIT. Any one of several permits authorized and required by
the chapter for the possession or handling of animals beyond normal companion
animal ownership and includes, but is not limited to, a commercial operation
permit:
      (1)   Kennel permit;
      (2)   Foster/rescue permit;
      (3)   Shelter permit;
      (4)   Sanctuary permit;
      (5)   Rescue permit;
      (6)   Transport permit;
      (7)   Multiple animal permit;
      (8)   Breeder permit; and
      (9)   Other such permits as may be authorized from time to time by the
county.
   STERILIZE. To be rendered permanently incapable of reproduction and
rendering an animal unable to reproduce, either by spaying of a female or
neutering of a male animal.
   STERILIZATION DEPOSIT. The fee that is charged by the animal shelter as part
of and included in the adoption fees when a person reclaims, adopts, or rescues
an unsterilized animal; the STERILIZATION DEPOSIT may or may not be refunded
when the animal is sterilized.
   STRAY. An animal found running at large away from its home, or that is
unattended or allowed to run at large away from its home.
   SUPERVISING VETERINARIAN. A person who is a licensed veterinarian, who holds
both a valid state controlled substance license and a valid federal drug
enforcement agency license.
   TETHERING. To tie an animal with a rope or chain to restrict its movement.
   VACCINATION. Any injection of vaccine for the purpose of immunizing an
animal against rabies approved by a state veterinarian and administered by a
licensed veterinarian for the purpose of immunizing an animal against rabies,
as required by NMSA § 77-1-3.
   VETERINARIAN. A person with a doctor of veterinary medicine degree and
licensed as such by the State Board of Veterinary Medicine.
   WILD ANIMAL. A living creature that is untamed or domesticated in a natural
state of a species that, in its natural state or life, is dangerous or
ferocious, including, but not limited to: wolves; foxes; coyotes; dingoes;
other non-domesticated or wild canines; lions; tigers; cheetahs; leopards;
bobcats; pumas; panthers; mountain lions; jaguars; other non-domesticated,
wild, or hybrid felines; bears; raccoons; skunks; bats; primates; venomous,
poisonous, and constricting snakes; alligators, crocodiles, caimans, or other
poisonous lizards and spiders; piranhas, and venomous fish and piranhas;
elephants; non-domesticated or wild ferrets; and animals protected by
applicable Endangered or Protected Species Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1531 et
seq., such as bald eagles, golden eagles, and various parrots and other birds.
The possession of a WILD ANIMAL is prohibited under this chapter unless
specifically allowed by federal or state law.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 92.003 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Sheriff, or his or her designee, the County Code Enforcement
Officers, and Animal Control Officers shall be responsible for the enforcement
of this chapter. The County Sheriff shall have the discretion to name a
designee and describe the duties of said designee in accordance with state law
and the county ordinances and policies.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 92.004 PROTECTIVE MEASURES AGAINST WOLVES.
   (A)   Procedures are hereby established for the “take” of problem wolves
which present imminent danger to humans, including children or other
defenseless persons, domestic animals, and/or livestock.
   (B)   Procedures are also established for demanding removal of problem
wolves that are habitually causing physical or psychological effects on humans.
   (C)   Acting either pursuant to FWS authorization, or divisions (A) or (B)
above, the CWII (County Wolf Interaction Investigator) shall assume the
following actions:
      (1)   Upon finding of imminent danger, if action is taken that results in
harassment, injury, or death of a wolf caused by human action, notify FWS (U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service) within 24 hours of the incident, or if action is
taken against a wolf that does not cause death or injury to the animal, notify
the FWS within seven days;
      (2)   Upon notice of an allegation of imminent danger, confirm the
presence of a wolf;
      (3)   Identify and document the wolf; and
      (4)   Make an initial observation for obvious physical and/or
psychological effects, and/or imminent danger, on humans, livestock, and/or
domestic animals.
   (D)   If evidence of physical effects on a human is visible, the CWII
(County Wolf Interaction Investigator) shall:
      (1)   Identify physical effects to determine if there are injuries or
harm;
      (2)   Provide comfort and apply first aid;
      (3)   Contact EMS and the County Sheriff to treat and investigate as
necessary;
      (4)   Inspect and document physical effects;
      (5)   Photograph all scenes where physical effects occurred;
      (6)   Measure canine spread in millimeters;
      (7)   Take DNA samples;
      (8)   Retain clothing for DNA testing and further investigation;
      (9)   Document physical effects and harm after conferring with EMS and/or
a medical doctor; and
      (10)   Prepare an incident report, including all non-confidential
information described in divisions (D)(1) through (D)(9) above, and transmit it
to the County Commissioners, FWS, and U.S. Wildlife Services within seven days.
   (E)   If evidence of psychological effects on human is present, the CWII
shall:
      (1)   Provide comfort and aid;
      (2)   Utilize the “Luna County Wolf-Human Interactions Complaint Form” to
document the incident;
      (3)   Submit the complaint documents to mental health professionals for
evaluation; and
      (4)   If the mental health professional confirms and documents that there
are psychological effects, the CWII shall prepare an incident report including
all non-confidential information, and transmit it to the County Commissioners,
the FWS, and U.S. Wildlife Services within seven days.
   (F)   If evidence of physical and/or psychological effects are present on a
human, as documented by medical and/or mental health professionals, but there
is no imminent danger to human health or safety, after notification by the CWII
and a vote of approval by the County Commissioners, the Commissioners shall
issue a dispatch order and demand the immediate removal of the identified wolf
from the Mexican Gray Wolf Recovery Program. The dispatch order shall be sent
to the U.S. Wildlife Service, FWS, State Department of Game and Fish, and the
Mexican Wolf Adaptive Management Oversight Committee (“AMOC”) via phone or
email, to be followed up by registered U.S. Postal Service mail with return
receipt requested.
   (G)   If evidence of physical effects on humans is not visible, the CWII
shall:
      (1)   Upon completion of the investigation, notify the County
Commissioners of the wolf-human incident; and
      (2)   Upon CWII notification and a vote of approval by County
Commissioners, the Commissioners shall issue a dispatch order and demand the
immediate removal of the wolf identified as habituated from the Mexican Gray
Wolf Recovery Program. The dispatch order shall be sent to U.S. Wildlife
Service, FWS, State Department of Game and Fish, and AMOC via phone or email,
to be followed up by registered U.S. Postal Service mail with return receipt
requested.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AVOIDANCE RESPONSE. A form of escape behavior in which the subject evades
an aversive event. An AVOIDANCE RESPONSE can be due to anxiety or a frightening
situation and is the commonly expected response to negative or aversive events.
Related to flight zone, the area surrounding an animal which, when encroached
upon, will cause alarm and escape behavior. Wild animals generally have very
large flight zones.
      CHILD. As used in the Children’s Code (NMSA § 32A-1-1), a person who is
less than 18 years old.
      DISPATCH ORDER. Direction issued by the County Commissioners requesting
an incidental take permit or other authorization to “take” a wolf within the
borders of the county. The DISPATCH ORDER is the means to request that wolves
that cause habitual imminent danger to individuals, domestic animals, or
livestock are removed and that the threat and/or harm is eliminated.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL (NON-LIVESTOCK) ATTACK. Engagement of a wolf in the
pursuit of and/or grasping, biting, attacking, wounding, or feeding upon human-
controlled animals which are alive.
      DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Human-controlled, that is, normally within proximity of
humans or human-use areas because they are fed, watered, and otherwise cared
for and their movement is controlled by humans; these include, but are not
limited to, household pets (dogs, cats, and the like), hunting dogs, barnyard
poultry, horses and other equines, large birds such as emus and ostriches, 4-
H project animals, and the like.
      FEARLESS WOLF. A bold-acting wolf which displays no fear of human or
human-use areas. A wolf that will approach within a close distance of humans.
See HABITUATED WOLF.
      FOOD CONDITIONED WOLF. A wolf which associates people with the presence
of food. See FOOD CONDITIONING.
      FOOD CONDITIONING. A food-related experience in which a wolf associates
humans with a source of food. This initially occurs when a wolf discovers a
food source with human scent, or within sight or sound of humans. A single
experience may be all that is necessary for the wolf to become conditioned to
associate humans with food. Once wolves have been successful in obtaining human
associated foods, absent any negative experience, they may develop new behavior
patterns and may continue to seek food at human-use sites. FOOD CONDITIONING
can contribute to habituation or habituation can lead to FOOD CONDITIONING, but
either may exist in the absence of the other.
      HABITUATED WOLF. A wolf which repeatedly approaches people and/or
repeatedly visits human-use areas in the presence of people without displaying
an avoidance response. HABITUATED WOLVES stand, look at people in a fearless
manner, and cannot be scared off by yelling, clapping hands, waving arms,
throwing objects, and/or discharging a firearm.
      HABITUATION. A decreasing response to a repeated, non-consequential
stimulus; the loss of a fear response to people which arises from frequent non-
consequential encounters.
      HUMAN EXPOSURE EVALUATION. A component of risk assessment which describes
the nature and size of a population exposed to a substance or circumstance, and
the magnitude and duration of their exposure. The EVALUATION may include past
exposures, current exposures, or anticipated future exposures.
      HUMAN HEALTH RISK. The likelihood (or probability) that a given exposure
or series of exposures may already have caused or will cause damage to the
health of individuals experiencing the exposures.
      HUMAN-WOLF INTERACTION. See WOLF-HUMAN INTERACTION.
      INVESTIGATIVE APPROACHES. A rapid approach, stop, and retreat without
threat display made by a wolf; occurs when a wolf realizes the subject of
investigative approach is not prey.
      LIVESTOCK ATTACK. Engagement of a wolf in the pursuit of and/or grasping,
biting, attacking, wounding, or feeding upon livestock that are alive.
      NON-HABITUATED WOLF. A wolf which is wild. Such wolves approach people,
then quickly retreat once the humans have been identified.
      PROBLEM WOLF. A wolf that:
         (a)   Has depredated lawfully present domestic livestock;
         (b)   Is a member of a group or pack (including adults, yearlings, and
young-of-the-year) that were directly involved in livestock depredations;
         (c)   Was fed by or are dependent upon adults involved with livestock
depredations (because young animals will likely acquire the pack’s livestock
depredation habits);
         (d)   Has depreciated domestic animals other than livestock on private
or tribal lands two times in an area within one year; or
         (e)   Is habituated to humans, human residences, or other facilities.
      PSYCHOLOGICAL HARM or DAMAGE. Mental stress, wound, injury, or trauma
which may or may not be accompanied by physical damage.
      PREDATION. Orientation towards the prey followed by stalking, chasing,
catching, biting, shaking the prey, carrying or dragging off. May be no prior
threat display or vocalization. May continue the attack on targeted prey, even
with interference. Children are particularly susceptible to wolf PREDATION on
humans.
      THREAT.
         (a)   Any wolf-related circumstance or event with the potential for
adverse physical or psychological impact upon a human.
         (b)   A wolf is considered to be a THREAT to a human any time the wolf
demonstrates menacing or fearless behavior while in close proximity to a human.
         (c)   A wolf is considered to be a THREAT to a human without
demonstrating menacing or fearless behavior when that wolf is in close
proximity to a child or any human who could not reasonably be expected to be
able to protect himself or herself.
      WILD WOLF. A wolf with wild characteristics; not tame or domesticated. A
WILD WOLF is free ranging exclusively in the wild and has an avoidance response
to humans and human-use areas.
      WOLF-HUMAN INTERACTION. Any incident in which the behavior of a wolf has
a direct physical or mental effect upon a human.
(Ord. 70, passed 12-13-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 50 C.F.R. § 17.84(k)(3)
OWNER’S DUTIES
§ 92.015 ANIMAL VACCINATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall keep, own, or harbor any member of the canine or
feline species over three months of age within this county unless that dog or
cat is vaccinated against rabies. Every such dog or cat shall be vaccinated
against rabies within 30 days upon any person acquiring ownership or taking
custody, care, and control of said animal. Upon request or demand by the County
Sheriff, or his or her designee, every owner shall provide proof of the
animal’s rabies vaccination.
   (B)   (1)   Rabies vaccinations must be administered by or under the
supervision of a veterinarian.
      (2)   Any veterinarian who vaccinates domestic animals for rabies shall
issue a serially-numbered tag and certificate for each vaccination.
      (3)   Each domestic animal must be re-vaccinated before the expiration of
the first and each subsequent rabies vaccination period.
   (C)   No person may keep any domestic animal with any symptom of rabies. Any
person observing an animal with any symptom of rabies shall notify the Animal
Control Officer or the County Sheriff’s
Department immediately.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.016 STERILIZATION; AGREEMENT, DEPOSIT.
   (A)   (1)   Sterilization and neutering is required for dogs and cats over
the age of six months unless an annual intact animal permit is purchased or a
need based waiver is granted for each animal.
      (2)   Unless granted a need based waiver, every dog or cat reclaimed,
adopted, or rescued from the County Animal Control Shelter shall be spayed or
neutered by a licensed veterinarian at the expense of the responsible party or
the owner must obtain an intact animal permit and have the intact animal
microchipped within 30 days’ of the date of reclaim/adoption/rescue.
      (3)   (a)   In addition to any other lawful fees due, any person
reclaiming or adopting a dog or cat from the County Shelter shall pay a
sterilization deposit. Fees for licenses, permits, and as required pursuant to
this chapter shall be established and adopted annually through resolution by
the Board of County Commissioners.
         (b)   Absent an intact animal permit, reclaimed animals shall not be
released until sterilization has been administered unless allowed otherwise
herein.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to NMSA § 77-1-20, a sterilization deposit is required
by any person reclaiming or adopting an animal from the County Animal Shelter.
      (2)   No animal shall be released from an animal shelter to an adopting
person unless a sterilization has been administered after payment of the
sterilization deposit, as provided herein.
      (3)   Adoption fees will be reduced by 10% for those choosing to
voluntarily use a microchip implant on their animals.
      (4)   Animals less than six months of age shall be released only upon
payment of the adoption fee and sterilization fee, and after the adopting
person has signed an agreement stating he or she will have the adopted animal
sterilized when it is not older than six months of age.
      (5)   Adult animals over the age of six months shall be released only
after payment of the adoption fee and a sterilization deposit, and
sterilization has been administered.
      (6)   An unsterilized (intact) animal reclaimed by its owner shall only
be released without being sterilized upon payment of an intact animal permit
and other impoundment fees imposed by the shelter; or sterilization pursuant to
this chapter and payment of other impoundment fees imposed by the shelter.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.017 RESTRAINT AND CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A person owning or having custody and care over an animal shall keep
the animal under humane physical restraint at all times, and shall maintain
immediate control over such animals when away from the owner’s property.
   (B)   Animals not restrained by immediate control, secure enclosure, or
humane tethering shall be deemed an unrestrained animal and subject to
enforcement actions and penalties by Animal Control Officers.
   (C)   All pens, kennels (as enclosures), stalls, or other secure enclosures
used to restrain an animal shall be properly constructed and maintained in a
manner and condition that does not expose animals or humans to sharp edges and
other dangers. Locking or latching devices shall be installed on all gates or
doors to animal enclosures in such a manner as to be inaccessible to animals
and small children to prevent animal escape and unauthorized entry.
   (D)   A rope, chain, or other device may be used to tether a dog or other
animal on one’s property, provided the following criteria are met.
      (1)   Tethering or restraining must be to a stationary object and shall
not be attached to any object that can be moved or dragged by the animal,
except a running line, pulley, or trolley system.
      (2)   The device must be affixed to the animal by use of a non-abrasive,
comfortably fitted collar or harness, and shall not be attached to a choke
chain collar, pinch collar, or prong collar.
      (3)   The device shall not be a logging or tow chain and must be at least
ten feet long. The device must be fastened so the animal can sit, walk, and lie
down comfortably; and must be unobstructed by objects that may cause the device
or animal to become entangled or strangled. Any chain or tether shall have
swivels on both ends.
      (4)   The animal must have constant access to adequate shade, shelter,
food, and potable water as defined herein.
      (5)   Tethering an animal must be done humanely as not to cause
behavioral or physical changes and/or cruelty to the animal. No chain or tether
shall weigh more than one-eighth of the dog’s weight.
      (6)   Tethering to a stationary object shall not be for more than six
continuous hours in any 12-hour period.
      (7)   Tethering to a running line, pulley, or trolley system shall not be
for more than 12 continuous hours in any 24-hour period.
      (8)   An animal shall not be tethered in any unenclosed area where people
or other animals can freely wander into the proximity of the tethered animal.
      (9)   The tether shall have working swivels on both ends and fastened in
such a way as to allow the animal to sit, walk, and lie down with natural
motions and free of obstructions that may cause entanglement or strangulation.
   (E)   The area where the animal is restrained must be kept free of garbage
and other debris that might endanger the animal’s health or safety. Feces shall
not be allowed to accumulate and shall be cleaned up by the owner.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as allowing any animal
under physical restraint to commit any act defined as unlawful in this chapter.
   (G)   A person who uses electric or invisible fencing designed to confine an
animal to his or her property must clearly post a notice in two separate
locations upon the property that such a device is in use.
   (H)   The presence of any uninvited dog or cat upon public property or the
private property of any person other than its owner shall be prima facie
evidence that the owner has violated the provisions of this section, and shall
make such animal liable to surrender to an Animal Control Officer as would
apply to the case of a dog running at large.
   (I)   This provision of this section does apply to animals being properly
used for herding or working livestock, hunting activities, law enforcement
activities, search and rescue, and while engaged in training sessions.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.018 ANIMAL IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Applications for a pet license shall be made within 30 days of
acquiring ownership or care, custody, or control of a dog or cat.
   (B)   Proof of current rabies vaccination and pet license shall be required
to obtain or renew a pet license.
   (C)   Pet licenses shall include pet license tag number, name and address of
the owner, animal description and picture, rabies vaccination tag number and
date, microchip number (if any), record of other vaccinations, and
sterilization information or intact animal permit number.
   (D)   All stray dogs and cats that voluntarily have microchips implanted at
the owner’s expense when reclaimed by their owner, adopted, or rescued will
receive a 10% discount on any fees owed. Animal identification through
microchips and/or tags is encouraged as a means of returning lost or stray
animals to their owners, as is registration of the animal’s description,
owner’s name, address, and telephone number, with veterinarians or a national
registry.
   (E)   Pet licenses can be refused or revoked if the applicant has withheld
or falsified information on any application or has been convicted of multiple
violations of this chapter, or been convicted of a crime related to the abuse
or mistreatment of animals.
   (F)   Required animal tags shall be worn while away from the owner’s
property and during any veterinary or grooming care, and may not be transferred
to another animal or owner.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.019 CARE, MAINTENANCE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to fail, refuse, and/or neglect to provide
any animal in his or her charge or custody with such care and husbandry as to
maintain the good health and wellbeing of the animal. Such care and husbandry
shall include, but not be limited to, adequate wholesome food, provided daily,
fresh potable water available at all times, clean adequate living area, shade,
professional veterinary care, and necessary grooming and daily cleaning, and
removal of feces and waste.
   (B)   To maintain good health and protection from weather elements, any
animal, except horses, cattle, pigs, sheep, or goats, habitually kept outside
shall be provided with a structurally sound, weatherproof enclosure, large
enough to accommodate the animal comfortably, with adequate shade and
ventilation and built to provide adequate protection and comfort from weather
and temperature extremes.
      (1)   (a)   Dog housing shall provide a minimum of flat floor space as
follows:
            1.   One dog up to 15 pounds: At least four square feet;
            2.   One dog 15 pounds up to 30 pounds: At least eight square feet;
            3.   One dog 30 pounds up to 65 pounds: At least 12 square feet;
and
            4.   One dog 65 pounds or more: At least 20 square feet.
         (b)   Dog housing shall provide vertical space of at least one and
one-half times the height of the dog at the shoulder.
         (c)   If more than one dog occupies the same primary enclosure, in
addition to the minimum requirement for one dog, each additional dog must
provide at least one-half of the minimum square footage required by weight.
         (d)   Dog beds are recommended but not required, but if dog beds are
provided, a bed must be provided for each dog occupying the same primary
enclosure.
      (2)   Cat housing, if kept in a crate or cage, shall provide a minimum of
four square feet with food, litter, and bedding spaced apart as possible with
sufficient space to stand, stretch, and move around.
         (a)   If colony rooms are used as cat housing, at least 18 square feet
per cat must be provided with the ability for the cats to maintain at least
three feet between themselves and other cats. Cat perches or walkways do not
count toward the minimum square footage, but outdoor access is included in the
minimum square footage. A 12 inches by 18 inches or larger litter pan or box
must be provided for every three cats in colony rooms; such pan or box to be
constructed of materials suitable for sterile cleaning, such as stainless steel
or fiberglass.
         (b)   Unsterilized males must be segregated from females, and kittens
less than six months old must be housed separately with their mothers.
   (C)   Animal enclosures shall be maintained free of garbage, feces, and
other debris that might endanger the animal’s health or safety.
   (D)   Animals and their enclosures shall be maintained free of insect
infestations, such as ants, wasps, fleas, ticks, maggots, and other parasites,
and other infestations, such as mice, rats, and other rodents, which might
endanger the animal’s health or safety.
   (E)   Enclosures where an animal is maintained for periods exceeding 24
hours must be of adequate size to prevent overcrowding and allow for normal
exercise according to species, and in no case shall the minimum twice-daily
exercise be less than 20 minutes each session, with documentation maintained
for each animal.
   (F)   Animals with infectious diseases or with unknown vaccination history
must be held in isolation in housing providing the appropriate minimum space
until evaluated and treatment completed.
   (G)   Animal crates may not be stacked more than three crates high and must
be secured to at least one adjacent wall, and crate flooring may not be wires
or slats unless properly covered to prevent paws and feet from slipping
through.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.020 ANIMAL WASTE.
   The owner or keeper of animals, such as dogs, cats, or any small household
animal, shall maintain a watertight and fly tight receptacle for feces from
such animals, which shall be emptied frequently and in such a manner so as to
prevent a nuisance or health hazard. Such receptacles shall be securely covered
at all times, except when opened to deposit feces. No feces will be allowed to
accumulate except in such receptacles.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES
§ 92.035 ANIMALS BITING PERSONS.
   (A)   The owner of an animal that bites a person and a person bitten by an
animal have a duty to report that occurrence to the animal control unit within
24 hours of the occurrence. The owner of an animal that bites a person shall
surrender said animal to an Animal Control Officer if the Officer deems it
necessary to impound said animal for a period of observation.
   (B)   A physician who renders professional treatment to a person bitten by
an animal shall report to the County Sheriff that he or she has rendered
professional treatment within 24 hours of his or her first professional
attendance. The physician shall report the name and address of the person
bitten as well as the type and location of the bite. The physician shall report
the name and address of the owner of the animal that inflicted the bite, if
known, and any other facts or details that may assist the Animal Control Unit
in ascertaining the immunization status of the animal.
   (C)   An animal that bites a person shall be confined securely at a place
and for a period of time deemed necessary by the Animal Control Officer. The
owner of the animal shall bear the cost of confinement.
   (D)   Animal Control Officers may take up and impound the animal into
protective custody for the period of the quarantine, and the owner shall pay
all related costs of the impoundment prior to reclaiming the animal.
   (E)   The Animal Control Officer may consent to confinement of the animal on
the owner’s premises. The premises where the home confinement is to occur shall
be inspected and approved for such purpose by the Animal Control Officer. The
owner of the animal shall be required to enter into an indemnity agreement on a
form approved and prescribed by the supervisor for such home confinement.
   (F)   If the animal shows signs of sickness or abnormal behavior, or if the
animal escapes confinement, the person shall immediately notify the Animal
Control Officer. The person having custody of an animal that dies during the
confinement period shall notify the Animal Control Officer and surrender the
carcass of the animal immediately to an Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 92.036 ABANDONMENT.
   It is unlawful for a person to abandon an animal or cause an animal to be
abandoned.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.037 ANIMAL NUISANCES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to allow an unprovoked animal to
persistently or continuously bark, howl, or make noise common to their species,
or otherwise disturbs the peace and quiet of inhabitants of the county for more
than 60 consecutive minutes.
   (B)   No person may keep any animals and/or livestock in unclean or
unsanitary conditions or in such numbers so as to result in noxious or
offensive odors or accumulations of feces, urine, or other bodily wastes, that
disturbs others, or confine the animals in such conditions so as to become
unmanageable or potentially vicious.
   (C)   No owner or responsible person of any domestic animal shall allow that
animal to defecate upon public property or upon any private property other than
the property of the owner of the animal without thoroughly and immediately
removing and legally disposing of the feces.
   (D)   Owners or persons with the custody, care, and control of animals shall
prevent animals from causing damage or being a nuisance to another person or
property, and shall be financially responsible for any such damage or nuisance,
in addition to being responsible for any fines or penalties assessed.
   (E)   Owners or persons having custody, care, and control over a female
animal in estrus shall confine the animal in such a way that prevents the
animal from becoming a nuisance.
   (F)   Animal Control Officers shall have the authority to enter premises on
which a nuisance animal is located in an effort to abate the nuisance. If the
owner or person having custody, care, and control over the nuisance animal is
unable or unwilling to abate the nuisance or cannot be located on the property,
the Animal Control Officer may seize and impound the animal, subject to the
owner’s right of reclamation after payment of any assessed fines or penalties.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.038 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to allow or permit any animal to run at
large in or on any alley, street, sidewalk, vacant lot, public property, other
unenclosed place in the county, or private property without permission of the
property owner.
   (B)   An animal permitted to run at large in violation of this section is
declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health and safety. Such
animal may be taken up and impounded. An officer may not enter a private
building or residence in pursuit of an animal without permission of the owner.
   (C)   A working dog performing such acts as herding or search and rescue
that is under the control and supervision of the owner or handler shall not be
considered as unleashed while performing or being trained for its duties. A
hunting, obedience, tracking, or show dog that is under the control and
supervision of the owner or handler shall not be considered as unleashed while
performing in or being trained for those capacities.
   (D)   A person shall not, without the knowledge and consent of the owner,
hold, harbor, or retain possession of any animal for more than 24 hours without
first submitting a found animal report to an Animal Control Officer.
   (E)   Found animals shall be immediately surrendered to an Animal Control
Officer, upon request, and found animals shall be allowed to be scanned for a
microchip and, when requested, presented for inspection or identification to an
Animal Control Officer and the person claiming ownership of the animal.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.039 ANIMALS TRANSPORTED IN VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to carry an animal in or upon any vehicle
in an unsafe manner.
   (B)   If an Animal Control Officer determines that an animal in a closed
vehicle is in immediate danger or serious injury or death, the Officer may
enter the vehicle, by whatever means necessary, and impound the animal into
protective custody.
   (C)   It shall be prima facie evidence of unsafe transportation if an animal
is carried in open vehicle or truck bed on public roads with speed limits of 55
mph or greater.
   (D)   An animal in an open vehicle or truck must be restrained in such a
manner that the animal cannot leave the confines of the open vehicle or truck
bed while restrained.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.040 BREAKING INTO ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITIES OR VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for a person to break into any pound, center, facility, or
vehicle wherein animals are impounded, or to in any manner remove or assist in
the removal of any animal or equipment from such.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.041 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals is prohibited and consists of the placement of an
animal in a circumstance that endangers or puts the animal at substantial risk
of loss of life or limb. It also includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Negligently mistreating, torturing, injuring, tormenting,
poisoning, mutilating, or, without legal justification, killing any animal;
      (2)   Voluntarily or involuntarily abandoning or failing to provide
necessary sustenance to an animal;
      (3)   Voluntarily or involuntarily depriving an animal of shelter to the
extent it could cause suffering, or endanger the life of said animal;
      (4)   Voluntarily or involuntarily depriving an animal of necessary
sustenance, food, and/or drink, or failing to meet minimum housing standards as
set out herein; or
      (5)   Placement of an animal in a vehicle or other confined area whereby
it is subjected to extreme temperatures or conditions.
   (B)   Extreme cruelty to animals is prohibited and consists of the
intentional placement of an animal in a circumstance that endangers the animal
and results at substantial risk of loss of life or limb. it also includes, but
is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Intentionally, maliciously, or with extreme disregard mistreating,
injuring, tormenting, torturing, poisoning, or, without lawful justification,
killing an animal; or
      (2)   Maliciously killing or killing without lawful justification an
animal.
   (C)   Cruelty and extreme cruelty to animals does not consist of:
      (1)   Lawful fishing, hunting, falconry, taking, and trapping;
      (2)   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine;
      (3)   Lawful rodent or pest control that does not endanger wildlife or
other animals;
      (4)   The treatment of livestock and other animals used on farms and
ranches for the production of food, fiber, or other agricultural products, when
the treatment is in accordance with commonly accepted agricultural animal
husbandry practices;
      (5)   The use of commonly accepted rodeo practices, unless otherwise
prohibited by law;
      (6)   Duly licensed research facilities, except when knowingly operating
outside provisions governing the treatment of animals, or a research or
maintenance protocol approved by the institutional animal care and use
committee of the facility;
      (7)   A state-managed or authorized predator control program; or
      (8)   Other similar activities not otherwise prohibited by law.
   (D)   Disputes as to what constitutes commonly accepted agricultural animal
husbandry practices or commonly accepted rodeo practices shall be determined by
applicable statutes, rules, and regulations, or the State Livestock Board
rules, regulations, or determinations.
   (E)   Prosecution of animal cruelty may be under this chapter and/or any
applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this section shall apply to or prohibit the use
of reasonable and necessary force to drive off or stop an attack by a vicious,
dangerous, or trespassing animal.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.042 VICIOUS, DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to maintain, harbor, or keep a vicious/
dangerous animal or potentially vicious/dangerous animal in a manner that
constitutes a threat to any person or other animal. All vicious/dangerous
animals must be securely confined in escape-proof locked structures and the
owner must post warning signs warning people to remain a safe distance from
said animals.
      (2)   Any person attacked by a vicious/dangerous animal may use
reasonable force to repel the attack.
      (3)   Any Animal Control Officer who determines that the present
conditions of confinement for a vicious/dangerous animal do not meet the above
standards, and that a present substantial danger to the public exists may,
consistent with the constitutional rights of the owner, take control of said
animal and confine it, pending further court action.
   (B)   (1)   When an Animal Control Officer has probable cause to believe
that an animal is vicious/dangerous or potentially vicious/dangerous, the
Animal Control Officer may, consistent with the constitutional rights of the
owner, impound the animal into protective custody awaiting appropriate court
proceedings.
      (2)   Following judicial determination that an animal is vicious/
dangerous, the court having jurisdiction over the enforcement of this chapter
shall, in addition to any fine or imprisonment imposed for violation of this
section, order the owner or keeper of such vicious animal to destroy it
humanely or turn such animal over for destruction.
   (C)   An Animal Control Officer who learns of a stray vicious/dangerous
animal within the county, which is a threat or potential threat to human life,
is authorized to destroy said stray vicious/dangerous animal if he or she is
unable to capture said animals without any substantial danger to himself or
herself, or others.
   (D)   A VICIOUS/DANGEROUS ANIMAL means any of the following:
      (1)   Any animal that, without provocation, attacks, bites, or physically
injures, kills, or seriously injures a person or other animal;
      (2)   An animal which engages in behavior that reasonably requires a
defensive action by a person to prevent bodily injury to a person;
      (3)   A snake which, because of its poisonous bite, is a significant
hazard to the public;
      (4)   Any animal known to be vicious and is deemed liable to attack or
injure any person or other animal; and/or
      (5)   Any animal which, at any time without provocation, shall bite,
attack, or injure any person who was peacefully conducting himself or herself
where he or she lawfully may be.
   (E)   A POTENTIALLY VICIOUS/DANGEROUS ANIMAL means an animal:
      (1)   May be reasonably assumed to pose a threat to public safety by a
pattern of behavior;
      (2)   Has prior incidents of history of causing an injury to a person or
animal that is less severe than a serious injury;
      (3)   Chases or menaces a person or domestic animal in an aggressive
manner and without provocation; or
      (4)   By acting in a highly aggressive manner within a fenced yard or
enclosure, and appearing able to jump out of the yard or enclosure.
   (F)   A DANGEROUS ANIMAL shall not mean:
      (1)   A dog used by a law enforcement official for legitimate law
enforcement purposes;
      (2)   If the threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a person or
domestic animal who was trespassing upon premises occupied by the owner or the
dog;
      (3)   If the animal had provoked, tormented, abused, or assaulted the
dog, or had repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented, abused, or assaulted
the dog;
      (4)   The victim was injured or attacked while committing or attempting
to commit a crime; or
      (5)   The animal was responding to fear, pain, or injury, protecting
itself or its offspring, or protecting or defending a human being or domestic
animal from attack or assault.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.043 UNLAWFUL USE OF VACCINATION CERTIFICATES.
   No person may remove any vaccination tag from one domestic animal to
another, or manufacture or cause to be manufactured, or to possess or control a
stolen, counterfeit, or forged animal vaccination certificate or tag.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.044 SAFETY AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   No person shall ignite any aerial device firework so that any part of that
aerial device firework, or the sparks or flames from that aerial device
firework, comes within 50 feet of any domestic animal or livestock belonging to
another person.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.045 RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OR TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   The sale, offer to sell, permanent transfer, or adoption of animals
under the age of six weeks is prohibited and animals over the age of six weeks
is prohibited until the animal has been weaned and capable of eating on its own
to sufficiently maintain proper body condition as determined by an Animal
Control Officer unless accompanied by a nursing female.
   (B)   Prior to the sale or permanent transfer of any animal outside the
boundaries of the county, a letter or certification of health from a
veterinarian must be obtained which evaluates the physical condition and
fitness for travel and verifies the absence of communicable or infectious
diseases, such as rabies, parvo, distemper, and the like. Animals infected with
communicable or infectious diseases shall not be transferred and are subject to
the quarantine or isolation provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The sale, offer for sale, barter, giveaway, adopt, or other transfer
upon a street, sidewalk, public park, or any area open to the public is
prohibited unless conducted by or on behalf of the County Animal Shelter or
without with special animal event permit.
   (D)   The offer of an animal as a prize, giveaway, premium, novelty, award,
or reward for a contest, game, or sport, or as an incentive to purchase
merchandise, is prohibited unless done in conjunction with FFA, 4-H, or other
recognized animal humane organizations and approved, in advance, by the county,
or its designee.
   (E)   Other than accurately labeled and identified fish, the sale, offer for
sale, or other transfer of venomous animals is prohibited.
   (F)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the sale, transfer, or adoption by,
between, or among animal shelters, animal rescues, and/or animal sanctuary or
refuge facilities.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
EXOTIC ANIMALS
§ 92.060 EXOTIC ANIMAL REGISTRATION.
   Except for municipal zoos and aquarium facilities, veterinary facilities, or
individuals holding a state wildlife rehabilitation or educational use permit,
the possession of exotic animals is prohibited.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021) Penalty, see §
92.999
PERMITS, AGREEMENTS, AND FEES REQUIRED
§ 92.075 PERMITS.
   (A)   All domestic dogs and cats kept as pets must be registered bi-
annually.
   (B)   All permitted facilities shall be inspected based on the total
capacity for the facility as follows:
      (1)   Eight to 20 animals: At least once each 12 months;
      (2)   Twenty-one to 40 animals: At least once every six months;
      (3)   Forty-one to 60 animals: At least once every three months; and
      (4)   Sixty-one or more animals: At least once each month.
   (C)   Except temporarily in a recognized emergency, as determined by the
county, or its designee, no facility of any kind may hold, contain, or possess
more than 80 animals.
   (D)   Animal rescue facility permits allow any licensed or permitted person
or non-profit organization recognized as an animal humane organization, or a
member thereof, to take temporary custody of or care for the licensed number of
animals until suitable permanent housing or placement is found. All facilities
operated as an animal rescue must be registered and permitted annually, and
inspected at least annually.
   (E)   Animal shelter facility permits allow any licensed or any permitted
non-profit animal humane entity not established or authorized by a municipality
or county of the state to temporarily take custody of or care for the licensed
number of animals until a permanent placement or disposition is found. All
facilities operated as an animal shelter must be registered, permitted
annually, and inspected at least annually.
   (F)   Animal sanctuary or refuge facility permits allow any licensed or
permitted person, or non-profit organization recognized as an animal humane
organization, or member thereof, to take permanent or indefinite custody of and
care for animals not suitable for placement elsewhere. All facilities operated
as an animal sanctuary or refuge must be registered and permitted annually and
inspected at least annually.
   (G)   (1)   Breeding facility permits allow any licensed or permitted
person, or non-profit organization recognized as an animal humane organization,
or member thereof, to house up to eight female dogs and eight female cats for
the purpose of breeding and producing offspring with the intent to sell, gift,
or otherwise transfer ownership to third parties. All facilities operated as
breeding facilities must be registered and permitted annually and inspected at
least quarterly. Additionally, all litters must be reported within 72 hours and
inspected within eight weeks. Breeding facilities and breeders may not operate
as an animal rescue, animal shelter, animal sanctuary, or refuge, kennel, or
other multiple animal facility.
      (2)   Intact animal permits allow for a responsible person to keep an
animal intact for the calendar year in which the permit is issued. Intact
animal permits must be registered and permitted annually.
   (H)   (1)   Groomer or grooming parlor permits allow for a person or
organization to take temporary custody of up to 20 animals for the purpose of
performing cosmetic services for animals including, but not limited to,
bathing, brushing, grooming, and nail trimming, for up to 72 hours.
      (2)   Groomer or grooming parlor permits must be registered and permitted
annually and inspected for cause or upon receipt of a credible complaint.
   (I)   Kennels must be registered and permitted annually and inspected for
cause or upon receipt of a credible complaint.
   (J)   (1)   Multiple animal facility permits allow for a person or non-
profit organization recognized as an animal humane organization, or member
thereof, for a purpose not otherwise specified herein, such as foster care, to
take temporary custody of up to nine animals at any one time.
      (2)   Multiple animal facility permits must be registered and permitted
annually and inspected at least annually.
   (K)   (1)   Pet shop permits allow for a person or organization to operate a
business, physical or online, open to the public, for the purpose of
purchasing, selling, or exchanging animals.
      (2)   Permits shall specify the number of each type of animal to be held
at the facility.
      (3)   Pet shop permits must be registered and permitted annually and
inspected at least annually.
   (L)   Special animal permits allow for operations or purposes not otherwise
specified in this chapter, such as animal transport and service animals.
Special animal permits must be registered and permitted annually.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 92.076 AGREEMENTS.
   The County Animal Shelter shall not release any domestic animal for reclaim,
adoption, or rescue unless the owner or responsible person signs a reclaim,
adoption, and rescue agreement, the form of which shall be approved by the
County Manager, or his or her designee. At a minimum, the agreement shall:
   (A)   Obligate the reclaiming/adopting/rescuing person to vaccinate any
animal not proven to be vaccinated for rabies within 30 days of possession and
provide proof to the County Animal Shelter, or be subject to automatic
forfeiture of the animal;
   (B)   Obligate the reclaiming/adopting/rescuing person to have a domestic
animal older than six months of age sterilized, or that person obtain an intact
animal permit for the animal and have the intact animal microchipped within 30
days of the date of reclaim/adoption/rescue; and
   (C)   Indicate whether or not the owner agrees to a microchip implant,
thereby entitling the owner to a 10% discount on any fees due and owing.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 92.077 FEES.
   Fees for licenses and permits as required and pursuant to this chapter,
shall be established and adopted annually through resolution by the Board of
County Commissioners.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER AND IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES
§ 92.090 AUTHORITY OF THE ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   Animal Control Officers will be properly trained and, within one year
of employment, obtain basic or level one Animal Control Officer certification
and, subject to constitutional limitations, shall have the following authority:
      (1)   To require responsible persons to exhibit proof of rabies
vaccination for any dog, cat, or domestic ferret in their custody;
      (2)   To enter upon private property to affix any summons, notice, or
official document upon the door of any residence occupied by a responsible
person;
      (3)   To enter upon any premises or go upon unenclosed parcels of land,
or enter any pen, enclosure, yard, or vehicle to enforce this chapter. However,
the Officer must personally view any violation proscribed by this chapter that
would place a domestic animal in immediate peril. Further, the officer may
enter only to the extent necessary for the immediate rescue of an imperiled
animal; and
      (4)   To enter upon any licensed or permitted premises for the purpose of
conducting an inspection required under this chapter, or in response to any
complaint of animal cruelty or mistreatment.
   (B)   (1)   Animal Control Officers may not enter any building, dwelling, or
place of business without the permission of the owner.
      (2)   However, nothing in this section limits the authority of an Animal
Control Officer pursuant to a warrant issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 92.091 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   Animal Control Officers shall make every attempt to impound any
domestic animal that he or she finds running astray and not under the control
of the owner or responsible person.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall destroy any dog he or she finds in
the act of pursuing or wounding livestock or wounding and killing poultry, or
attacking humans.
   (C)   The Animal Control Officer shall detain any domestic animal exhibiting
symptoms of rabies. The Animal Control Officer shall have any such animal
tested for rabies by the State Department of Health.
   (D)   Animal Control Officers must obtain proper training for duties and
responsibilities required as an Animal Control Officer to apprehend, handle,
and care for animals.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 92.092 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
   (A)   An Animal Control Officer may detain and impound in the designated
Animal Control Facility a stray or any animal kept or maintained contrary to
the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   If a stray or domestic animal is wearing a license, collar, anti-
rabies tag, has an identifying tattoo, microchip, or is otherwise identifiable,
the animal may be either immediately returned to the owner or impounded for at
least five days. During the five days of impoundment, the animal shelter shall
attempt, at least once daily, to notify the animal’s owner(s) or responsible
person(s) of the impoundment by either direct communication or oral or written
message. Further, the animal shelter shall not release the animal for adoption
during the five days of impoundment.
   (C)   If an owner or responsible person contacts the animal shelter before
expiration of the impoundment period, but cannot arrange to reclaim the animal
before the impoundment period expires, the animal shelter shall assist the
owner or responsible person in making alternative arrangements, at the owner’s
or responsible person’s expense.
   (D)   The owner or responsible person shall be responsible for all impound
fees, boarding fees, and other costs whether or not the animal is reclaimed.
   (E)   Any stray which is not reclaimed and cannot be adopted may be
euthanized in accordance with the impound facility’s regulations.
   (F)   The animal may be confined in accordance with the facilities
regulations.
   (G)   The director of such facility shall maintain, as required by statute,
a record of all animals impounded. At least the following information shall be
included:
      (1)   A complete description of the animal and photo;
      (2)   The manner, date, and location of its acquisition;
      (3)   The date, manner, and place of impoundment;
      (4)   The impoundment number; and
      (5)   The date and manner of disposition of said animal.
   (H)   Owners requesting surrender of an animal shall be required to sign an
owner’s release at the time of impoundment.
   (I)   If a stray animal is not wearing a current rabies tag and is deemed
critically injured or critically ill by an Animal Control Officer, the Officer
may deliver the animal to the County Humane Society for euthanasia. A report
must be filed with the County Sheriff. A properly trained and equipped Animal
Control Officer may euthanize said animal if he or she believes it is
necessary.
   (J)   (1)   Whenever an Animal Control Officer finds that any animal is or
will be without adequate care because of injury, illness, incarceration, or
other absence of the owner or person responsible for the care of such animal,
the County Sheriff, or his or her designee, may take up such animal for
protective care.
      (2)   The owner of the animal may reclaim the animal after paying all
required fees and costs imposed by the impound facility.
      (3)   If the animal is unclaimed at the end of the protective custody
period of 15 days, the animal may be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed
of by the impound facility.
   (K)   The owner of any impounded dog or cat that has not been vaccinated as
required by this chapter may redeem the animal by paying impoundment charges at
the County Animal Shelter and having the animal vaccinated within 30 days with
proof provided thereafter to the County Animal Shelter. If such owner fails to
comply with this section, the animal may be impounded and subject to
forfeiture.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 92.105 PROCEDURES FOR COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   A complaint alleging any violation of this chapter shall be filed with
the County Sheriff and the contractor of the animal shelter by a person who has
personal knowledge of such violation, and who can identify the owner of the
animal involved or the premises where the animal is located.
   (B)   The complainant must include his or her name, address, phone number,
and email account with the complaint.
   (C)   Animal Control Officer must include all findings in the investigation
report narrative and submit a copy to the County Manager, or his or her
designee.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 92.106 PROCEDURE FOR SHERIFF AND ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   The County Sheriff, or his or her deputies, and Animal Control
Officers shall have the authority to and are directed to investigate, upon
probable cause, any alleged violation of this chapter or of any law of the
state relating to the care, treatment, control, and prevention of cruelty to
animals. The results of all investigations shall be presented to the County
Sheriff and referred to the district attorney for determination of further
action.
   (B)   An Animal Control Officer shall wear a uniform and shall carry
appropriate identification when on duty.
   (C)   In enforcing this chapter, the county’s personnel shall observe all of
the legal rights granted its citizens under United States or state law,
including citizens’ constitutional rights against unreasonable searches and
seizures. All such searches and seizures shall be conducted in such a manner as
to protect the citizens’ rights under the Fourth Amendment to the United States
Constitution and Article II, § 10 of the State Constitution. These protections
require that the officer have consent of the person, or a warrant, to enter
upon private property or that such entry be in accordance with a recognized
exception to the warrant requirement, per existing federal or state law. If an
officer receives a complaint of a violation, or observes a violation, he or she
may only enter the property if such entry is done in conformance with the above
constitutional requirements. Where legally recognized exigent circumstances
exist, per existing federal or state law, to justify such an entry and a
warrant cannot reasonably be obtained by the officer, he or she can enter the
premises to the extent justified by law. For example, exigent circumstances
exist where an animal appears to have been abandoned, as defined in this
chapter, and the officer reasonably believes it is necessary to protect the
life and safety of the animal, the Officer may enter the property to detain the
animal.
   (D)   Whenever a deputy or an Animal Control Officer has probable cause to
believe that a person has violated this chapter or applicable state laws, the
Animal Control Officer shall prepare a criminal complaint to be submitted to
the County Sheriff and referred to the district attorney for filing with the
appropriate court, or prepare a citation for the alleged violator to appear in
court. The citation shall contain the name, date of birth, address, and
telephone number, if known, of the person violating this chapter, the driver’s
license number of such violator, if known, the code section allegedly violated,
and the date and place when and where such person allegedly committed the
violation, and the location where such person shall appear in court and the
deadline for appearance. The Animal Control Officer shall present the citation
to the person he or she has probable cause to believe violated the code section
in order to secure the alleged violator’s written promise to appear in court by
having the alleged violator sign a copy of the citation. The Animal Control
Officer shall deliver a copy of the citation to the person promising to appear.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
VIOLATIONS
§ 92.120 SUSPENSION, REVOCATIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   When a violation of this chapter is discovered, the County Sheriff, or
his or her designee, shall give notice of the violations to the permit holder,
operator, or person in charge. The notification shall:
      (1)   Set forth each specific violation;
      (2)   Establish a specific and reasonable period of time for the
correction of the violation;
      (3)   State that failure to comply with a notice issued in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter may result in immediate suspension or
revocation of the permit; and
      (4)   State that an opportunity for appeal from a notice or inspection
findings will be provided if a written request for a hearing is filed with the
Supervisor within five days of receipt of the notice.
   (B)   Notices under this section shall be deemed properly served and
received when the original inspection report or other notice has been
personally served on the person in charge or sent by registered or certified
mail to the last known address of the permit holder.
   (C)   Permits may be suspended for failure of the holder to comply with the
requirements of this chapter or other applicable laws, ordinances, or
regulations. The suspension may be lifted when the Supervisor determines the
violations have been corrected.
   (D)   Permits may be revoked for serious or repeated violations of the
requirements of this chapter, or for violation of other applicable laws,
ordinances, or regulations. A permit shall be revoked for one year. The permit
shall be surrendered to the Animal Control Unit upon suspension or revocation.
   (E)   A person whose permit has been suspended may apply for an inspection
of the premises for the purpose of reinstating the permit. If the applicant and
the site are in compliance with the requirements of this chapter and all other
applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations, the permit shall be reinstated.
The reinstated permit shall expire on the date of expiration of the previously
suspended permit.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 92.121 APPEAL PROCEDURES FOR PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A person whose application for a permit or permit renewal has been
approved on condition or denied, and a permit holder, whose permit has been
suspended or revoked, may submit to the County Animal Shelter a written request
for a hearing. The written request must be received within ten days of the
applicant’s receipt of the written notice from the county. The hearing shall be
conducted within a reasonable time after the County Animal Shelter receives the
request for a hearing.
   (B)   Hearings shall be conducted by a hearing officer at a time and place
designated by the County Animal Shelter and shall be recorded. All witnesses
shall be sworn or affirmed. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be mailed to the applicant and the County Manager.
   (C)   The applicant shall be afforded a fair hearing that provides the basic
safeguards of due process that shall include:
      (1)   The opportunity to examine before the hearing and, at the expense
of the applicant, to copy all documents, records, and regulations of the Animal
Control Department that are relevant to the hearing. Any document not made
available by the Animal Control Department, after written request by the
applicant, may not be relied upon by the Animal Control Department at the
hearing;
      (2)   The right to be represented by counsel or other persons chosen as
his or her representative; and
      (3)   The right to present evidence and arguments in support of his or
her appeal to controvert evidence relied on by the Department, and to confront
and cross-examine all witnesses on whose testimony or information the County
Manager relies. A decision shall be based solely and exclusively upon the facts
presented at the hearing.
   (D)   The hearing officer shall prepare a written report of his or her
findings and decision within ten days after the hearing, and shall provide
copies to the parties.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
RELEASE OF PREDATORY ANIMALS
§ 92.135 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the “Luna County Genera Ordinance” or “this
subchapter.”
(Ord. 69, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 92.136 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PREDATORY ANIMALS OF GENERA CANIS. Also known as Mexican Wolf, ursus (or
grizzly bear), and felis (or jaguar), and shall exclude the following: Domestic
cats that been spayed and returned to the wild.
   RELEASE. The act of setting free to roam at large.
(Ord. 69, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 92.137 REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to import for release into the wild, or release into
the wild, within the boundaries of the county predatory animals of the genera
canis, ursus, and felis unless the following requirements and conditions have
been met.
   (A)   Any person or entity proposing to release any animals of the genera
canis, ursus, or felis shall provide notification to the county at least 120
days prior to the proposed implementation of the release program.
   (B)   A release feasibility study must be provided to the county at least 90
days before the proposed release describing economic, human health and safety,
and biological effects to the county and its citizens.
   (C)   A public hearing on the release program shall be held at least 60 days
before the proposed release.
   (D)   The County Commissioners vote to approve the release program.
(Ord. 69, passed 12-13-2007) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
92.001 through
92.003,
92.015 through
92.020,
92.035 through
92.045,
92.060,
92.075 through
92.077,
92.090 through
92.092,
92.105,
92.106,
92.120, and
92.121 shall constitute a petty misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine
up to $500 and/or imprisonment up to six months or both.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or entity convicted of a violation of the provisions
of §
92.137 shall be deemed guilty of a petty misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300 and/or imprisonment of no
more than 90 days, or both for each offense.
(Ord. 69, passed 12-13-2007; Ord. 98, passed 11-10-2021)
CHAPTER 93: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Short title
   
93.02   Purpose
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   General requirements
   
93.05   Discrimination prohibited
   
93.06   Administration
§ 93.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Affordable Housing Ordinance” or “this
chapter.”
(Ord. 117, passed 11-16-2023)
§ 93.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted to implement the county’s Affordable Housing Plan.
In accordance with the State Constitution, Article IX, § 14, the Affordable
Housing Act, NMSA §§ 6-27-1 et seq. (the “Act”), and NMMFA Rules, the purpose
of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Establish procedures to ensure that local housing assistance grantees
are qualifying grantees who meet the requirements of the Act and the rules
promulgated pursuant to the Act both at the time of the award and throughout
the term of any grant or loan under the program;
   (B)   Establish an application and award timetable for local housing
assistance grants or loans to permit the selection of the qualifying grantee(s)
by;
   (C)   In conjunction with the MFA, create an evaluation process to
determine:
      (1)   The financial and management stability of the applicant;
      (2)   The demonstrated commitment of the applicant to the community;
      (3)   A cost-benefit analysis of the project proposed by the applicant;
      (4)   The benefits to the community of a proposed project;
      (5)   The type or amount of assistance to be provided;
      (6)   The scope of the affordable housing project;
      (7)   Any substantive or matching contribution by the applicant to the
proposed project;
      (8)   A performance schedule for the qualifying grantee with performance
criteria; and
      (9)   Any other rules or procedures the county believes are necessary for
a full review and evaluation of the applicant and the application, or which the
MFA believes is necessary for a full review of the county’s evaluation of the
applicant.
   (D)   Require long-term affordability of the county’s affordable housing
projects so that a project cannot be sold shortly after completion and taken
out of the affordable housing market;
   (E)   Require that a grant or loan for a project must impose a contractual
obligation on the qualifying grantee that the affordable housing units in any
project be occupied by persons of low or moderate income as defined in this
chapter;
   (F)   Provide for adequate security against the loss of public funds or
property in the event that the qualifying grantee abandons or otherwise fails
to complete the project;
   (G)   Require review and approval of a housing grant project budget by the
county and/or the MFA before any expenditure of grant funds or transfer of
granted property;
   (H)   Require that a condition of grant or loan approval be proof of
compliance with all applicable state and local laws, rules, and ordinances;
   (I)   Provide definitions for “low income” and “moderate income,” and set
out requirements for verification of income levels;
   (J)   Provide the county with a valid affordable housing program; and
   (K)   Require that the county enter into a contract with the qualifying
grantee consistent with the Act, which contract shall include remedies and
default provisions in the event of the unsatisfactory performance by the
qualifying grantee, and which contract shall be subject to the review of the
MFA in its discretion.
(Ord. 117, passed 11-16-2023)
§ 93.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Affordable Housing Act, NMSA §§ 6-27-1 et seq.
   AFFORDABLE. Consistent with minimum rent and/or income limitations set forth
in the MFA Act and in guidelines established by the MFA.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING. Residential housing primarily for persons or households
of low or moderate income.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUNDS. Any or all funds awarded or to be awarded, loaned,
or otherwise distributed under the Act.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING PLAN or PLAN. A plan pursuant to detailed research and
analysis of the community and housing profile, including a review of land use
and policy regarding land use, which produces a housing needs assessment for
low- and moderate-income households in that locality.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM or PROGRAM. Any programs the county establishes
pursuant to the Act.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT or PROJECT. Any work or undertaking, whether new
construction, acquisition of existing residential housing, remodeling,
improvement, rehabilitation, or conversion, which may be developed in one or
more phases, as approved by the county and/or the MFA for the primary purposes
as allowed by the Act.
   AFFORDABILITY PERIOD.
      (1)   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the
total amount of affordable housing funds that have been awarded, loaned,
donated, or otherwise conveyed to the qualifying grantee is from $1 to
$14,999.99, then the AFFORDABILITY PERIOD shall be not less than five years.
      (2)   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the
total amount of affordable housing funds is from $15,000 up to and including
$40,000, then the AFFORDABILITY PERIOD shall be not less than ten years.
      (3)   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the
total amount of affordable housing funds is greater than $40,000 up to and
including $100,000, then the AFFORDABILITY PERIOD shall be not less than 15
years.
      (4)   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the
total amount of affordable housing funds is greater than $100,000, then the
AFFORDABILITY PERIOD shall be not less than 20 years.
   APPLICANT. An individual, a governmental housing agency, regional housing
authority, a non-profit organization, or a for-profit organization, including a
corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, syndicate,
or association meeting the appropriate criteria set by the county and/or the
MFA.
   APPLICATION. An application to participate in one or more affordable housing
projects or programs under the Act submitted by an applicant to the county.
   BUILDER. An individual or entity licensed as a general contractor to
construct residential housing in the state that satisfies the requirements of a
qualifying grantee and has been approved by the county and/or the MFA to
participate in an affordable housing program. The term BUILDER shall also
include an individual or entity that satisfies the requirements of a qualifying
grantee and has been approved by the county and/or the MFA to participate in an
affordable housing program, who is not licensed as a general contractor in the
state, provided such individual or entity contracts with a general contractor
licensed in the state to construct residential housing.
   BUILDING. A structure capable of being renovated or converted into
affordable housing, or a structure that is to be demolished and is located on
land donated for use in connection with an affordable housing project.
   COUNTY. Luna County, New Mexico, a unit of local government under the
Constitution and laws of the state.
   CONGREGATE HOUSING FACILITY. Residential housing designed for occupancy by
more than four persons of low or moderate income living independently of each
other. The facility may contain group dining, recreational, health care, or
other communal living facilities and each unit in a congregate housing facility
shall contain at least its own living, sleeping, and bathing facilities.
   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT. The United States of America and any agency or
instrumentality, corporate or otherwise, of the United States of America.
   HOUSEHOLD. One or more persons occupying a housing unit.
   HOUSING ASSISTANCE GRANT. The donation, provision, or payment by the county
of:
      (1)   Land upon which affordable housing will be constructed;
      (2)   An existing building that will be renovated, converted, or
demolished and reconstructed as affordable housing;
      (3)   The costs acquisition, development, construction, financing, and
operating or owning affordable housing; or
      (4)   The costs of financing or infrastructure necessary to support
affordable housing.
   HUD. The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. Infrastructure improvements and infrastructure purposes.
   INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Sanitary sewage systems, including collection, transport, storage,
treatment, dispersal, effluent use, and discharge;
      (2)   Drainage and flood control systems, including collection,
transport, diversion, storage, detention, retention, dispersal, use, and
discharge;
      (3)   Water systems for domestic purposes, including production,
collection, storage, treatment, transport, delivery, connection, and dispersal;
      (4)   Areas for motor vehicle use for road access, ingress, egress, and
parking;
      (5)   Trails and areas for pedestrian, equestrian, bicycle, or other non-
motor vehicle use for access, ingress, egress, and parking;
      (6)   Parks, recreational facilities, and open space areas for the use of
residents for entertainment, assembly, and recreation;
      (7)   Landscaping, including earthworks, structures, plants, trees, and
related water delivery systems;
      (8)   Electrical transmission and distribution facilities;
      (9)   Natural gas distribution facilities;
      (10)   Lighting systems;
      (11)   Cable or other telecommunications lines and related equipment;
      (12)   Traffic control systems and devices, including signals, controls,
markings, and signs;
      (13)   Inspection, construction management, and related costs in
connection with the furnishing of the items listed in this section; and
      (14)   Heating, air conditioning, and weatherization facilities, systems,
or services, and energy efficiency improvements that are affixed to real
property.
   INFRASTRUCTURE PURPOSE.
      (1)   Planning, design, engineering, construction, acquisition, or
installation of infrastructure, including the costs of applications, impact
fees and other fees, permits, and approvals related to the construction,
acquisition, or installation of the infrastructure, provided the county may
determine it appropriate to reduce or waive building permit fees, sewer and
water hook-up fees, and other fees with respect to an affordable housing
project for which affordable housing funds and/or housing assistance grants are
awarded, loaned, donated, or otherwise distributed under the Act;
      (2)   Acquiring, converting, renovating or improving existing facilities
for infrastructure, including facilities owned, leased, or installed by the
owner;
      (3)   Acquiring interests in real property or water rights for
infrastructure, including interests of the owner; and
      (4)   Incurring expenses incident to and reasonably necessary to carry
out the purposes specified in this definition.
   MFA. The State Mortgage Finance Authority.
   MFA ACT. The Mortgage Finance Authority Act, enacted as Chapter 303 of the
Laws of 1975 of the state, as amended (being NMSA §§ 58-18-1 through 58-18-27,
as amended).
   MORTGAGE. A mortgage, mortgage deed, deed of trust, or other instrument
creating a lien, subject only to title exceptions as may be acceptable to the
county and/or the MFA; on a fee interest in real property located within the
state or on a leasehold interest that has a remaining term at the time of
computation that exceeds or is renewable at the option of the lessee until
after the maturity day of the mortgage loan.
   MORTGAGE LENDER. Any bank or trust company, mortgage company, mortgage
banker, national banking association, savings bank, savings and loan
association, credit union, building and loan association and any other lending
institution; provided, that the MORTGAGE LENDER maintains an office in the
state, is authorized to make mortgage loans in the state, and is approved by
the county and/or the MFA and either the Federal Housing Authority, Veterans’
Affairs, Federal National Mortgage Association (now known as Fannie Mae), or
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (now known as Freddie Mac).
   MORTGAGE LOAN. A financial obligation secured by a mortgage, including a
mortgage loan for a project.
   MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING PROGRAM. A program involving a congregate housing
facility, a multi-family housing project, a transitional housing facility, or a
shelter used to provide emergency or transitional housing opportunities to low-
income or moderate-income families who are or are at risk of becoming homeless.
   MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING PROJECT. Residential housing that is designed for
occupancy by more than four persons or families living independently of each
other or living in a congregate housing facility, at least 60% of whom are
persons of low or moderate income, including, without limitation, persons of
low or moderate income who are seniors and/or disabled as determined by the
county and/or the MFA, provided that the percentage of low income persons and
families shall be at least the minimum, if any, required by federal tax law.
   ORDINANCE. The ordinance codified in this chapter (Ord. 117).
   PERSONS OF LOW OR MODERATE INCOME.
      (1)   Persons and families who are determined to lack sufficient income
to pay enough to cause private enterprise to build an adequate supply of
decent, safe, and sanitary residential housing in the county, and whose incomes
are below the income levels established by the MFA and the plan to be in need
of the assistance made available by the Act, taking into consideration, without
limitation, such factors as defined under the Act. For purposes of this
definition, the word FAMILIES shall mean a group of persons consisting of, but
not limited to, the head of a household; his or her spouse, if any; and
children, if any, who are allowable as personal exemptions for federal income
tax purposes. In accordance with the plan, PERSONS OF LOW AND MODERATE INCOME
who are eligible for assistance in accordance with the plan are as follows:
         (a)   PERSONS OF LOW INCOME shall mean persons in households with
annual gross incomes below 80% of area median income for the county as approved
and published each year by MFA and verified by the county.
         (b)   PERSONS OF MODERATE INCOME shall mean persons in households with
annual gross incomes between 80% and 120% of area median income for the county
as approved and published each year by MFA and verified by the county.
      (2)   For purposes of this definition, ANNUAL GROSS INCOME shall mean the
annual anticipated income from assets, regular cash or non-cash contributions,
and any other resources and benefits determined to be income by HUD, as defined
in 24 C.F.R. § 5.609.
   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES. Policies and procedures of the MFA, including, but
not limited to, mortgage loan purchasing, selling, servicing, and reservation
procedures, which the MFA may update and revise from time to time as the MFA
deems appropriate.
   PUBLIC SERVICE AGENCIES. Includes, but are not limited to, any entities that
support affordable housing and which believe that the program or project
proposed by the applicant is worthy and advisable, but which are not involved,
either directly or indirectly, in the affordable housing program or project for
which the applicant is applying.
   QUALIFYING GRANTEE.
      (1)   An individual who is qualified to receive assistance pursuant to
the Act, the rules, and this chapter, and is approved by the county and MFA, as
applicable; and
      (2)   A governmental housing agency, regional housing authority,
corporation, a limited liability company, partnership, joint venture,
syndicate, association, or a non-profit organization that:
         (a)   Is organized under state or local laws and can provide proof of
such organization;
         (b)   If a non-profit organization, has no part of its net earnings
inuring to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual;
         (c)   Is qualified to receive assistance pursuant to the Act, the
rules, and this chapter; and
         (d)   Is approved by the county and MFA, as applicable.
   RECERTIFICATION. The recertification of applicants and/or qualifying
grantees participating in any affordable housing programs or in any programs
under the Act as determined necessary from time to time by the county and/or
the MFA.
   REHABILITATION.
      (1)   The substantial renovation or reconstruction of an existing single-
family residence or a multi-family housing project, which complies with
requirements established by the MFA.
      (2)   REHABILITATION shall not include routine or ordinary repairs,
improvements or maintenance, such as interior decorating, remodeling, or
exterior painting, except in conjunction with other substantial renovation or
reconstruction.
   RESIDENTIAL HOUSING. Any building or portion thereof that is primarily
occupied, or designed or intended primarily for occupancy, as a residence by
one or more households, and any real property that is offered for sale or lease
for the construction or location thereon of such a building or portion thereof.
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING includes congregate housing, manufactured homes, and
housing intended to provide or providing transitional or temporary housing for
homeless persons.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. The building or the portion of the building to benefit from
the affordable housing funds or housing assistance grant is designed primarily
for use as the principal residence of the occupant or occupants, and shall
exclude vacation or recreational homes.
   RFP. Any request for proposals made by the county to solicit proposals for
affordable housing projects and related services.
   RULES. The State Mortgage Finance Authority Affordable Housing Rules,
adopted pursuant to NMSA § 6-27-5(B).
   STATE. The State of New Mexico.
   TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FACILITY. Residential housing that is designed for
temporary or transitional occupancy by persons of low or moderate income, or
with special needs.
(Ord. 117, passed 11-16-2023)
§ 93.04 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall apply to all housing assistance grants and/
or affordable housing funds awarded, loaned, or otherwise distributed by the
county under the Act, being NMSA §§ 6-27-1 et seq., to a qualifying grantee.
   (A)   Request for proposals. The county, in its discretion, may issue one or
more RFPs to solicit applications from applicants, or shall otherwise identify
a qualifying grantee for the use of any affordable housing funds or housing
assistance grants to be awarded, loaned, donated, or otherwise distributed
under the Act.
   (B)   Applicant eligibility. The following applicants are eligible under the
Act to apply for affordable housing funds or a housing assistance grant to
provide housing or related services to persons of low or moderate income in the
community:
      (1)   All individuals who are qualified to receive assistance pursuant to
the Act, the rules, and this chapter that are approved by the county and MFA,
as applicable;
      (2)   All regional housing authorities and any governmental housing
agencies;
      (3)   All for-profit organizations, including any corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, joint venture, syndicate, or association;
      (4)   All non-profit organizations meeting the following requirements:
         (a)   A primary mission of the non-profit organization must be to
provide housing or housing-related services to persons of low or moderate
income;
         (b)   The non-profit organization must have received its I.R.C. § 501
(c)(3), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), designation prior to submitting an
application; and
         (c)   Have no part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any
member, founder, contributor, or individual.
      (5)   All non-individual applicants must:
         (a)   Be organized under state or local laws, and can provide proof of
such organization and be approved by the county;
         (b)   Have a functioning accounting system that is operated in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) or has
designated an entity that will maintain such an accounting system consistent
with GAAP;
         (c)   Have among its purposes significant activities related to
providing housing or services to persons or households of low or moderate
income; and
         (d)   Have no significant outstanding or unresolved monitoring
findings from the county, the MFA, or its most recent independent financial
audit, or if it has any such findings, it has a certified letter from the
county, the MFA, or the auditor stating that the findings are in the process of
being resolved.
   (C)   Applications. 
      (1)   Process for applying. Applicants wishing to apply for a housing
assistance grant, including the use of any affordable housing funds, or to
participate in any affordable housing program, are required to submit to the
county the following (as applicable):
         (a)   One original application together with all required schedules,
documents, or such other information which may be required by the county or in
any RFP which may have been issued by the county;
         (b)   A proposal describing the nature and scope of the affordable
housing project proposed by the applicant and for which the applicant is
applying for funds or a grant under the Act, and which documents the need for
the requested funds or grant, describes the type and/or amount of assistance
which the applicant proposes to provide to persons of low or moderate income,
and documents the consistency of the proposal with the county’s affordable
housing plan;
         (c)   Executive summary and project narrative(s) that address the
evaluation criteria set forth in any RFP issued by the county for the
affordable housing funds or the housing assistance grant for which the
applicant is applying;
         (d)   A proposed budget for the affordable housing project for which
the applicant is applying for affordable housing funds or for a housing
assistance grant;
         (e)   A copy of its most recent independent financial audit;
         (f)   If the applicant is a non-profit organization:
            1.   Proof of I.R.C. § 501(c)(3) tax status; and/or
            2.   Documentation that confirms that no part of its net earnings
inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual.
         (g)   If an applicant is a legal entity, including a non-profit
organization:
            1.   A current annual budget for the applicant, including all
sources and uses of funds, not just those related to relevant programs and/or a
current annual budget, only for the program for which the applicant is applying
for a housing assistance grant, or as otherwise may be required by the county
and/or the MFA in its discretion;
            2.   An approved mission statement that the applicant has, among
its purposes, significant activities related to providing housing or housing
related services to persons or households of low or moderate income;
            3.   A list of members of the applicant’s current board of
directors or other governing body, including designated homeless participation,
where required by the county;
            4.   Evidence or a certification, as may be allowed by the county,
that the applicant has a functioning accounting system that is operated in
accordance with GAAP, or has a designated entity that will maintain such an
accounting system consistent with GAAP;
            5.   Evidence that the applicant has no significant outstanding or
unresolved monitoring findings from the county, the MFA, or its most recent
independent financial audit; or if it has any significant outstanding or
unresolved monitoring findings from the county, the MFA, or its most recent
independent financial audit, it has a certified letter from the county, the
MFA, or the auditor stating that the findings are in the process of being
resolved;
            6.   a.   An organizational chart, including job titles and
qualifications for the applicant’s employees, or as otherwise may be required
by the county and/or the MFA in its discretion; and
               b.   Job descriptions may be submitted as appropriate.
            7.   Documentation that the applicant is duly organized under state
or local law, and certification that the applicant is in good standing with any
state authorities, including the Public Regulation Commission and the Secretary
of State.
         (h)   Information, as may be required by the county and/or the MFA, in
order for it to determine the financial and management stability of the
applicant;
         (i)   Information, as may be required by the county and/or the MFA, in
order for it to determine the demonstrated commitment of the applicant to the
community;
         (j)   A completed cost-benefit analysis of the affordable housing
project proposed by the applicant. Any cost-benefit analysis must include
documentation that clearly evidences that there is a need for the housing
assistance grant being requested from the county, that there is or will be a
direct benefit from the project proposed by the applicant to the community and/
or to the purported beneficiaries of the project, consistent with the
provisions of the Act, and that the affordable housing project will meet the
needs and affordability criteria defined in the county’s affordable housing
plan;
         (k)   Information supporting the benefits to the community of the
affordable housing project proposed by the applicant;
         (l)   Proof of substantive or matching funds or contributions, and/or
in kind donations, to the proposed affordable housing project in connection
with the application for funds under the Act. Nothing contained herein shall
prevent or preclude an applicant from matching or using local, private, or
federal funds in connection with a specific housing assistance grant or a grant
of affordable housing funds under the Act;
         (m)   Any certifications or other proof which the county may require
in order for the county to confirm that the applicant is in compliance with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and
ordinances;
         (n)   A verification signed by the applicant before a notary public
that the information provided, upon penalty of perjury, is true and correct to
the best of the applicant’s information, knowledge, and belief; and
         (n)   Certifications as may be required by the county and signed by
the chief executive officer, board president, or another authorized official of
the applicant;
         (o)   The applicant shall submit adequate information, as required by
the county and/or MFA, of the affordable housing project proposed by the
applicant. The information provided must clearly evidence the need for the
subsidy, that the value of the housing assistance grant reduces the housing
costs to persons of low or moderate income, and that there will be a direct
benefit from the project proposed by the applicant to the community and/or to
the purported beneficiaries of the project, consistent with the provisions of
the Act, the rules, and this chapter.
      (2)   Additional requirements for multi-family housing projects.
Applicants who are submitting applications in connection with a multi-family
housing program. The applicant must also submit to the county following
additional information:
         (a)   A verified certificate that, among other things:
            1.   Identifies every multi-family housing program, including every
assisted or insured project of HUD, RHS, FHA, and any other state or local
government housing finance agency in which such applicant has been or is a
principal;
            2.   States that, except as shown on such certificate:
               a.   No mortgage on a project listed on such certificate has
ever been in default, assigned to the federal government, or foreclosed, nor
has any mortgage relief by the mortgagee been given;
               b.   There has not been a suspension or termination of payments
under any HUD assistance contract in which the applicant has had a legal or
beneficial interest;
               c.   Such applicant has not been suspended, debarred, or
otherwise restricted by any department or agency of the federal government, or
any state government from doing business with such department or agency because
of misconduct or alleged misconduct; and
               d.   The applicant has not defaulted on an obligation covered by
a surety or performance bond.
            3.   If such applicant cannot certify to each of the above, such
applicant shall submit a signed statement to explain the facts and
circumstances that such applicant believes will explain the lack of
certification. The county may then determine if such applicant is or is not
qualified;
            4.   The experience of the applicant in developing, financing, and
managing multi-family housing projects; and
            5.   Whether the applicant has been found by the United States
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or the State Human Rights Commission to
be in non-compliance with any applicable civil rights laws.
      (3)   Additional requirements for mortgage lenders. If the applicant is a
mortgage lender, the county shall consider, among other things:
         (a)   The financial condition of the applicant;
         (b)   The terms and conditions of any loans to be made;
         (c)   The aggregate principal balances of any loans to be made to each
applicant compared with the aggregate principal balances of the loans to be
made to all other applicants;
         (d)   The county’s assessment of the ability of the applicant, or its
designated servicer, to act as originator and servicer of mortgage loans for
any multi-family housing programs or other programs to be financed; and
         (e)   Previous participation by the applicant in the programs
administered by the MFA, HUD, Federal Housing Authority, or rural housing
service programs.
      (4)   Submission procedure.
         (a)   Time, place, and method of submission delivery.
            1.   If the county has issued an RFP, all applications must be
received by the county no later than the deadline set forth in the RFP;
otherwise, all applications must be received by the county by the deadline the
county has established in connection with the respective award or grant. So
that any qualifying grantees may be selected prior to January of the year in
which any housing assistance grant would be made, the county shall issue any
RFPs, solicit any applications, or otherwise identify any qualifying grantees
no later than October 15 of any year in order to allow sufficient time for
prospective applicants to respond to any such RFP, solicitation, or otherwise,
and further to allow the MFA not less than 45 days in which to review any such
applications or otherwise determine or confirm that an applicant is a
qualifying grantee under the Act and consistent with the rules.
            2.   Applications shall be submitted by applicants to the county in
the form required by the county, and shall contain all information which is
required by this chapter and any RFP which may have been issued.
         (b)   Additional factors.
            1.   Timely completion and submission to the county of an
application or other appropriate response to any solicitation by the county;
            2.   Timely submission of all other information and documentation
related to the program required by the county as set forth in this chapter or
as set forth in the rules;
            3.   Timely payment of any fees required to be paid to the county
at the time of submission of the application; and
            4.   Compliance with program eligibility requirements as set forth
in the Act, the rules, and this chapter.
         (c)   Submission format.
            1.   County forms or MFA forms (if available) must be used when
provided, and no substitutions will be accepted; however, attachments may be
provided as necessary.
            2.   An applicant’s failure to provide or complete any element of
an application, including all requirements of the county or as may be listed on
any RFP, may result in the rejection of
the application prior to review.
            3.   Illegible information, information inconsistent with other
information provided in the application, and/or incomplete forms will be
treated as missing information and evaluated accordingly.
            4.   The county and the MFA reserve the right to request further
information from any applicant so long as the request is done fairly and does
not provide any applicant an undue advantage over another applicant.
            5.   The county, in its discretion, may cancel any RFP or reject
any or all proposals in whole or part submitted by any applicant.
            6.   a.   The applicant shall be responsible for any expenses
incurred in preparing and submitting an application. However, the county or the
MFA, as applicable, may establish and collect fees from applicants who file
applications.
               b.   Notice that fees will be charged and the amount of any such
fees shall be included by the county or the MFA, as applicable, in any RFP or
otherwise shall be advertised as part of the application solicitation process.
      (5)   Review by the county. On receipt of an application, the county
shall:
         (a)   Determine whether the application submitted by the applicant is
complete and responsive;
         (b)   Determine whether the applicant is a qualifying grantee as
defined herein and in the Act;
         (c)   Review and analyze whether the applicant has shown a
demonstrated need for activities to promote and provide affordable housing and
related services to persons of low or moderate income, and that the proposal is
consistent with the county’s adopted affordable housing plan;
         (d)   Determine whether the applicant has demonstrated experience
related to providing housing or services to persons of low or moderate income,
as well as experience and/or the capacity of the applicant to administer the
affordable housing program or project for which the applicant has applied;
         (e)   Determine whether the applicant’s proposal provides a plan for
coordinating with other service providers in the community; whether the
applicant’s proposal addresses how persons of low income or moderate income in
need of housing and/or housing related services can receive supportive services
and referrals to federal, state, and local resources; and whether the
applicant’s proposal addresses outreach efforts to reach the population to be
served as identified by the county in any RFP, in the affordable housing plan,
or otherwise;
         (f)   Determine whether the applicant has support from public service
agencies, or such other support as may be required by the county and/or the MFA
in its discretion, for its proposed services in the community;
         (g)   Ascertain the amount of any matching funds or in-kind services
specific to the program that may be utilized by the applicant in connection
with the program;
         (h)   Ascertain whether any local, private, or federal funds will be
used by the applicant in connection with the specific grant for which the
applicant is applying;
         (i)   Ascertain whether the applicant has and can demonstrate the
capability to manage the implementation of the program for which the applicant
is applying;
         (j)   If the applicant is a prior recipient of either a housing
assistance grant, affordable housing funds, and/or other program funds, confirm
that the applicant had no outstanding findings or matters of non-compliance
with program requirements from the county or the MFA, as applicable, or if it
has any such findings, it has a certified letter from the county, the MFA, or
the auditor stating that the findings are in the process of being resolved;
         (k)   If the applicant is a prior recipient of either a housing
assistance grant, affordable housing funds, and/or other program funds, confirm
that the applicant reasonably committed and expended the funds under the prior
program and/or met anticipated production levels as set forth in any contract
with the county or the MFA, as applicable, for those prior program funds;
         (l)   Evaluate the applicant’s proposal in part based upon the
applicant’s current financial audit;
         (m)   Evaluate the applicant’s proposed budget for the project for
which the applicant is applying for affordable housing funds or a housing
assistance grant which proposed budget must be approved by the county before
the applicant can be approved as a qualifying grantee, and any expenditure of
grant funds under the Act or granted property is transferred to the applicant;
         (n)   On receipt of an application from a builder, the county will
analyze the builder’s ability to construct and sell sufficient residential
housing units to persons of low or moderate income within the time or times as
may be required by the county; and
         (o)   Consider other factors it deems appropriate to ensure a
reasonable geographic allocation for all affordable housing programs.
      (6)   Certification by the county to the MFA. The county shall certify an
application to the MFA in writing upon:
         (a)   Completion of its review of the application;
         (b)   Determination that the application is complete;
         (c)   Determination that the requirements of the Act, the rules, and
this chapter have been satisfied; and
         (d)   Determination that the applicant is a qualifying grantee.
      (7)   Discretionary review by the MFA for completeness. The MFA, upon its
receipt of the certification from the county, may, in its discretion, review
the application and any of the materials submitted by the applicant to the
county. The MFA may also request any additional information from the applicant,
which it may require in order to determine whether the applicant is a
qualifying grantee under the Act and the application is complete. The MFA will
then notify the county of its determination of whether or not the application
is complete and that the requirements of the Act and the rules have been
satisfied, and the applicant is a qualifying grantee. Unless the period is
extended for good cause shown, the MFA shall act on an application within 45
days of its receipt of any application, which the MFA deems to be complete, and
if not acted upon by the MFA, the application shall be deemed to be approved.
      (8)   Notification of acceptance. The county, upon completion of its
review of the application and an evaluation of the criteria for approval of the
application as set forth in the this chapter and in any RFP issued by the
county, and upon its determination that the applicant is a qualifying grantee,
and upon its receipt of notification from the MFA that it agrees that the
application is complete and that the Act and rules have been satisfied and the
applicant is a qualifying grantee, by written notice, shall notify each
applicant which has submitted an application of the approval or disapproval of
its application. Upon approval of its application, the applicant shall be
considered approved to participate in the affordable housing program. The
county’s and the MFA’s determination of any application shall be conclusive.
   (D)   Additional requirements. Upon acceptance, the following additional
requirements shall apply to any applicant who is a qualifying grantee:
      (1)   Contractual requirements. The qualifying grantee shall enter into
one or more contracts with the county, which contract(s) shall be consistent
with the Act and subject to the review of the MFA, in its discretion, and which
contract(s) shall include remedies and default provisions in the event of the
unsatisfactory performance by the qualifying grantee.
      (2)   Security provisions; collateral requirements. In accordance with
the Act, the rules, and this chapter, the county shall require the qualifying
grantee to execute documents, which will provide adequate security against the
loss of public funds or property in the event the qualifying grantee abandons
or fails to complete the affordable housing project, and which shall further
provide, as may be permitted by law, for the recovery of any attorney’s fees
and costs which the county and/or the MFA may incur in enforcing the provisions
of this chapter, the rules, the Act, and/or any agreement entered into by the
county and the qualifying grantee, and which documents may include, but are not
limited to, the following: note, mortgage, loan agreement, land use restriction
agreement, restrictive covenant agreements, and/or any other agreement which
the county may require in order to allow for any funds which the qualifying
grantee may receive under a housing assistance grant or affordable housing
funds to be adequately secured, and to allow the county and the MFA to ensure
that such funds shall be used by the qualifying grantee in accordance with the
Act, the rules, and this chapter.
      (3)   Performance schedule and criteria. The qualifying grantee shall be
required to abide by a reasonable performance schedule and performance criteria
that the county, in its discretion, may establish.
      (4)   Examination of books and records. The qualifying grantee shall
submit to, and the county shall cause to be made, such examinations of the
books and records of each qualifying grantee as the county and/or the MFA deems
necessary or appropriate to determine the qualifying grantee’s compliance with
the terms of the Act, the rules, this chapter, and any contracts between the
qualifying grantee and the county. The county and/or the MFA may require each
qualifying grantee to pay the costs of any such examination.
      (5)   Infrastructure cost reimbursement contracts.
         (a)   Cost reimbursements. Payment to a qualifying grantee under cost
reimbursable contract provisions shall be made upon the county’s receipt from
the qualifying grantee of certified and documented invoices for actual
expenditures allowable under the terms of any agreement between the qualifying
grantee and the county.
         (b)   Cost reimbursements for units of service. Payment under any unit
cost contract provisions shall be made upon the county’s receipt from the
qualifying grantee of a certified and documented invoice showing the number of
units of service provided during the billing period.
         (c)   Rate at which costs incurred. Under unit cost or cost
reimbursable contracts, it is anticipated that costs will be incurred by the
qualifying grantee at an approximate level rate during the term of any
agreement between the qualifying grantee and the county. If the county
determines that the qualifying grantee is underspending or overspending, then
the county may reduce the budget and/or exercise such other budgetary fiscal
controls it deems appropriate.
         (d)   Invoices. Qualifying grantees shall not submit invoices more
than once a month, unless written approval is obtained in advance from the
county. Failure to submit invoices within 20 calendar days of the close of the
month for which payment is sought may result in the non-availability of funds
for reimbursement.
         (e)   No dual application of costs. The qualifying grantee shall
certify that any direct or indirect costs claimed by the qualifying grantee
will not be allocable to or included as a cost of any other program, project,
contract, or activity operated by the qualifying grantee and which has not been
approved by the county in advance, in writing.
         (f)   Prohibition of substitution of funds. Any affordable housing
funds or other amounts received by the qualifying grantee may not be used by
the qualifying grantee to replace other amounts made available or designated by
the state or local governments through appropriations for use for the purposes
of the Act.
         (g)   Cost allocation. The qualifying grantee shall clearly identify
and distribute all costs incurred pertaining to the affordable housing project
by a methodology and cost allocation plan at times and in a manner prescribed
by, or acceptable, to the county.
         (h)   Additional information.
            1.   Qualifying grantees shall provide the county with any and all
information which the county may reasonably require in order for it to confirm
that the qualifying grantees continue to satisfy the requirements of the Act,
the rules, and this chapter throughout the term of any contract and/or any
affordability period, or otherwise as may be required by the county or the MFA
in its discretion.
            2.   At a minimum, on an annual basis, the county shall certify to
the MFA in writing that to the best of its knowledge the qualifying grantee is
in compliance with applicable provisions of the Act, the rules, and this
chapter.
   (E)   Affordable housing requirements. All affordable housing funds or
housing assistance grants awarded under the Act are to be used by qualifying
grantees for the benefit of persons of low or moderate income subject to the
provisions of the Act and with particular regard to their housing related
needs.
      (1)   Single-family property.
         (a)   Qualifying grantees shall agree that they shall maintain any
single-family property which has been acquired, rehabilitated, weatherized,
converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or which property has otherwise
benefitted from affordable housing funds, including, but not limited to, any
loans which have been repaid with affordable housing funds and which loans
previously were secured by such properties as affordable housing for so long as
any or all of the affordable housing funds which have been awarded, loaned, or
otherwise conveyed to the qualifying grantee are unpaid and outstanding or the
affordability period, whichever is longer.
         (b)   If any single-family properties are to be rehabilitated,
weatherized, converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or otherwise are to
benefit from affordable housing funds, and if the qualifying grantee intends to
rent the single-family property out, those single-family properties shall be
leased to persons of low or moderate income at the time of any such award.
Grantees also shall agree that the persons of low or moderate income who are
tenants of those apartments shall be allowed to remain tenants for so long as
there are no uncured defaults by those tenants under their respective leases
which must be compliant to the State Uniform Owner-Resident Relations Act (NMSA
§§ 47-8-1 through 47-8-52), and provided that there is no just cause (as
outlined in NMSA § 47-8-33) for the landlord to terminate any lease agreement
with those tenants.
      (2)   Multi-family property.
         (a)   Single apartment within a multi-family property. Qualifying
grantees shall agree that, if any single apartments are to be rehabilitated,
weatherized, converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or otherwise are to
benefit from affordable housing funds, those apartments shall be leased to
persons of low or moderate income at the time of any such award. Qualifying
grantees who are the landlords and/or owners of such properties shall further
agree to contribute at least 60% of the cost of the rehabilitation,
weatherization, conversion, lease, repair, and/or construction. Qualifying
grantees also shall agree that the persons of low or moderate income, who are
tenants of those apartments, shall be allowed to remain tenants for so long as
there are no uncured defaults by those tenants under their respective leases,
which must be compliant to the State Uniform Owner-Resident Relations Act (NMSA
§§ 47-8-1 through 47-8-52) and provided that there is no just cause (as
outlined in NMSA § 47-8-33) for the landlord to terminate any lease agreement
with those tenants.
         (b)   Multiple apartments. Qualifying grantees shall agree that, if
multiple apartments or an entire multi-family property are to be acquired,
rehabilitated, weatherized, converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or
otherwise are to benefit from affordable housing funds, including, but not
limited to, any loans which have been repaid with affordable housing funds and
which loans previously were secured by such properties, they shall maintain not
less than 60% of the housing units as affordable housing for so long as any or
all of the affordable housing funds which have been awarded, loaned, or
otherwise conveyed to the qualifying grantee are unpaid and outstanding or the
affordability period, whichever is longer.
      (3)   Non-residential property. Qualifying grantees shall agree that they
shall maintain any non-residential property which has been acquired,
rehabilitated, weatherized, converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or which
property has otherwise benefitted from affordable housing funds, including, but
not limited to, any loans which have been repaid with affordable housing funds
and which loans previously were secured by such properties, as a facility which
provides housing related-services to persons of low or moderate income for so
long as any or all of the affordable housing funds which have been awarded,
loaned, or otherwise conveyed to the qualifying grantee are unpaid and
outstanding or the affordability period, whichever is longer.
      (4)   Housing assistance grant affordability requirements.
         (a)   Qualifying grantees shall agree that they shall maintain any
land or buildings received as a housing assistance grant either as either
single-family or multi-family affordable housing in accordance with divisions
(E)(1) and (E)(2) above or as a facility which provides housing related-
services to persons of low or moderate income in accordance with division (E)
(3) above (as applicable) for the duration of the affordability period.
         (b)   Qualifying grantees shall agree that they shall maintain any
land or buildings for which they have received the costs of infrastructure as a
housing assistance grant as either single-family or multi-family affordable
housing, or as a facility which provides housing related-services to persons of
low or moderate income (as applicable) for the duration of the affordability
period. In calculating the affordability period for housing assistance grants
of either land or buildings, the fair market value of the land or buildings, or
the costs of infrastructure, at the time of the donation by the county shall
apply.
      (5)   Affordability period. The county, in its discretion, may increase
the affordability period in any contract, note, mortgage, loan agreement, land
use restriction agreement, restrictive covenant agreements, and/or any other
agreement which the county may enter into with any qualifying grantee or
beneficiary of the affordable housing funds or of the housing assistance grant.
(See definition of affordability period in §
93.03.) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the discretion of the MFA,
weatherization funds conveyed from the state to the MFA and/or any other
similar conveyances where an affordability period is not practical shall not be
subject to the affordability period requirements of this division (E); but
nevertheless, any such conveyances may be subject to recapture on some pro-
rated basis as determined by the county and/or the MFA.
      (6)   Consent to jurisdiction. Each qualifying grantee shall consent to
the jurisdiction of the courts of the state over any proceeding to enforce
compliance with the terms of the Act, the rules, and this chapter, and any
agreement between the qualifying grantee and the county and/or the MFA.
      (7)   Recertification procedures.
         (a)   The qualifying grantee must meet the requirements of the Act,
the rules, and this chapter both at the time of any award and throughout the
term of any grant and contract related thereto.
         (b)   The county may establish procedures for recertifying qualifying
grantees from time to time.
         (c)   Qualifying grantees that fail to satisfy the requirements for
recertification shall cease to be eligible and shall be denied further
participation in affordable housing programs until the requirements of the
county and the MFA are satisfied.
      (8)   Compliance with the law. Qualifying grantees shall provide the
county with any certifications or other proof that it may require in order for
the county and the MFA to confirm that the qualifying grantee and the
qualifying grantee’s proposed project are in compliance with all applicable
federal, state, and local laws, rules, and ordinances. At a minimum, on an
annual basis, the qualifying grantee shall provide the county with
certifications and proof of compliance, and the county shall certify to the
MFA, in writing, that the qualifying grantee is still in compliance with the
Act and the rules.
      (9)   Extension of affordable housing programs. The MFA shall have the
power to create variations or extensions of affordable housing programs, or
additional programs that comply with the Act and the rules.
      (10)   County grant requirements.
         (a)   The county is authorized to make housing assistance grants under
the Act. Upon determination that the county will make a housing assistance
grant, including the use of any affordable housing funds, the county shall
provide the MFA with the following:
            1.   Documentation that confirms that the county has an existing
valid affordable housing plan;
            2.   Documentation that confirms that the county has an existing
valid affordable housing ordinance which provides for the authorization of the
housing assistance grant, including the use of any affordable housing funds;
and
            3.   Written certification that the proposed grantee is in
compliance with the Act and the rules so that the MFA may confirm that the
application is complete, and that the proposed grantee is a qualifying grantee
under the Act and the rules.
         (b)   Prior to the submission of the application and project
authorization to the Commission, the Commission must approve the budget
submitted by the applicant.
         (c)   An action authorizing the county to make a housing assistance
grant and/or distribute affordable housing funds:
            1.   Must authorize the grant, including use of affordable housing
funds, if any;
            2.   Must state the requirements and purpose of the grant;
            3.   Must authorize the transfer or disbursement to the qualifying
grantee only after a budget is submitted to and approved by the Commission;
            4.   Must comply with the rules, as amended; and
            5.   May provide for matching or using local, private, or federal
funds, either through direct participation with a federal agency pursuant to
federal law or through indirect participation through the MFA.
         (d)   The MFA shall act to approve the proposed housing assistance
grant authorized by the county within 45 days of its receipt of the
documentation required above in divisions (E)(1), (E)(2), and (E)(3) above.
         (e)   The county, in its discretion, may also hold any award of
affordable housing funds or any housing assistance grant made by the county in
suspense pending the issuance by the county of any RFP, or pending the award of
the affordable housing funds or of the housing assistance grant by the county
to the qualifying grantee without the issuance of an RFP by the county. Any
award of affordable housing funds or a housing assistance grant by the county
shall subject the qualifying grantee of the award or grant to the oversight of
the county and the MFA under this chapter and the rules.
      (11)   School district and public post-secondary educational institution
donations for housing projects. If a school district or a public post-secondary
education institution intends to transfer land to the county to be further
granted to a qualifying grantee as part or all of an affordable housing
project, this transfer shall be subject to the limitations contained in the Act
that the school district and the Commission enter into a contract that provides
the school district with a negotiated number of affordable housing units that
will be reserved for employees of the school district. Any transfer of land by
a public post-secondary educational institution shall be subject to the
additional limitations contained in the Act that:
         (a)   The property transferred shall be granted to a qualifying
grantee by the county as part of a grant for an affordable housing project; and
         (b)   The governing board of the public post-secondary educational
institution and the Commission enter into a contract that provides the public
post-secondary educational institution with affordable housing units. As used
in this section, PUBLIC POST-SECONDARY EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION means a state
university or a public community college. The county, in its discretion, may
also hold any housing assistance grant made by any school district or public
post-secondary educational institution in suspense pending the issuance by the
county of any RFP, or pending the award of the housing assistance grant by the
county to the qualifying grantee without the issuance of an RFP by the county.
Any award of a housing assistance grant by a school district or a public post-
secondary educational institution shall subject the qualifying grantee of the
grant to the oversight of the county and the MFA under the rules.
(Ord. 117, passed 11-16-2023)
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   The development, construction, occupancy, and operation of an affordable
housing program or an affordable housing project financed or assisted under the
Act shall be undertaken in a manner consistent with principles of non-
discrimination and equal opportunity, and the county shall require compliance
by all qualifying grantees with all applicable federal and state laws and
regulations relating to affirmative action, non-discrimination, and equal
opportunity.
(Ord. 117, passed 11-16-2023)
§ 93.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   The county shall administer any affordable housing programs in accordance
with provisions of the Act, the rules, this chapter, any applicable state and
federal laws and regulations, as each of which may be amended or supplemented
from time to time. The county, in establishing, funding, and administering the
affordable housing programs and by making, executing, delivering and performing
any award, contract, grant, or any other activity or transaction contemplated
by the Act, shall not violate any provision of law, rule, or regulation or any
decree, writ, order, injunction, judgment, determination, or award, and will
not contravene the provisions of or otherwise cause a default under any of its
agreements, indentures, or other instruments to which it may be bound. Any
proposed amendment to this chapter shall be submitted to MFA for review prior
to adoption by the Commission.
(Ord. 117, passed 11-16-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
      
112.   SALVAGE YARDS
      
113.   DEALERS, WRECKERS, DISMANTLERS; TOWING OPERATIONS
      
114.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
Business Registration Fee
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Exemptions
   
110.03   Imposition of fee
   
110.04   Rate of fee
   
110.05   Payment of fee
   
110.06   Enforcement
Certification
   
110.20   Short title
   
110.21   Applicability
   
110.22   Definitions
   
110.23   Procurement preference
   
110.24   Obtaining a preference certificate
   
110.25   Denial of certificate; protest, revocation
   
110.26   Expiration of permit
 
   
110.99   Penalty
BUSINESS REGISTRATION FEE
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners.
   BUSINESS REGISTRATION FEE. The fees imposed by this subchapter.
   COUNTY. The County of Luna, State of New Mexico.
   ENGAGING IN BUSINESS. Operating, conducting, doing, carrying on, or causing
to be carried on or pursuing any business, including any profession,
occupation, or trade located within the boundaries of the county but outside
the boundaries of an incorporated municipality.
   PERSON. Any person or other legal entity subject to this subchapter.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-14-2023)
§ 110.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to those persons:
      (1)   Engaged solely in farming and ranching;
      (2)   Who have annual gross sales, trades, or exchanges of less than $500
in the county;
      (3)   Engaging in charitable, educational, religious, benevolent, civic,
patriotic, political, social, fraternal, literary, cultural, or athletic fund-
raising purposes; and
      (4)   Who are vendors registered with a duly organized and active club,
society, organization, or association within the county which sponsors annual
community events in the county open to the general public.
   (B)   In such cases, said vendors shall not be required to pay the business
registration fee, but the sponsor shall pay a fixed fee, called a canopy fee,
of $125 annually.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-14-2023)
§ 110.03 IMPOSITION OF FEE.
   (A)   A fee is imposed on all persons engaging in business in the county, as
defined in §
110.01, except for those persons exempt in §
110.02. The fee applies to businesses located within the boundaries of the
county but outside the boundaries of an incorporated municipality.
   (B)   It also applies to businesses located within a municipality who also
conduct business within county jurisdiction.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-14-2023)
§ 110.04 RATE OF FEE.
   All persons engaging in business shall pay an annual license fee of $35 per
business, except as provided in §
110.02.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-14-2023)
§ 110.05 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   Each person having a business subject to the business registration fee shall
pay the business registration fee to the Planning Department by July 1 of each
year for the fiscal year ending June 30 of the following year. Any portion of
the business registration fee that remains unpaid by July 11 is delinquent.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-14-2023)
§ 110.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If any person engaging in business fails to pay the business
registration fee, as required by §
110.03, they shall be liable for the fee and a penalty of $250, and all costs
incurred by the Planning Department in the enforcement of this subchapter, made
payable to the Planning Department.
   (B)   If a person engaging in business fails to pay the business
registration fee required by this subchapter, the Planning Department shall
mail the person notice of the amount owed by certified mail, return receipt
requested.
   (C)   If the fees, along with penalty payments, are not made by the business
within 15 days of receipt of such notice by the person engaging in business,
the Planning Department may bring an action in law or equity in Magistrate
Court for the collection of any amounts due, including, without limitation, any
penalties thereon, the costs of collection, and reasonable attorney’s fees
incurred in connection therewith.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-14-2023)
CERTIFICATION
§ 110.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the “Luna County Procurement Preference
Ordinance,” or the “Procurement Preference,” or “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 82, passed 6-14-2012)
§ 110.21 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to procurement by the county under state law and
the county’s procurement regulations. This subchapter shall not apply to
procurement by the county that is governed pursuant to a grant agreement by the
federal acquisition regulations, 48 C.F.R. part 1 et seq.
(Ord. 82, passed 6-14-2012)
§ 110.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY BUDGET/PROCUREMENT DIRECTOR or PROCUREMENT MANAGER. The person
appointed to serve as the county’s Procurement Manager.
   COUNTY BUSINESS. A business that holds a current county business certificate
at the time of application for a preference certificate pursuant to this
subchapter (or the appropriate municipal business license, if located within a
municipality) that has its primary and permanent office or business location
within the exterior boundaries of the county for at least one year preceding
the submission of an application for a county procurement preference, and
which, if a foreign corporation, has filed a unitary return pursuant to the
Corporate Income and Franchise Tax Act, being NMSA §§ 7-2A-1 et seq., and NMSA
§ 7-2A-8.3, or as amended.
   COUNTY BUSINESS CERTIFICATE or BUSINESS CERTIFICATE. The certificate issued
to a business engaged in business within the unincorporated limits of the
county.
   COUNTY PREFERENCE CERTIFICATE or PREFERENCE CERTIFICATE. The certificate
authorized pursuant to §
110.23(B).
(Ord. 82, passed 6-14-2012)
§ 110.23 PROCUREMENT PREFERENCE.
   (A)   (1)   A county procurement preference is hereby established, as
described in this subchapter.
      (2)   When the county procures services using competitive sealed
proposals pursuant to NMSA § 13-1-111, or as amended, an offer submitted by a
county business shall be deemed to receive 5% of the overall totals points
awarded in connection with the evaluation of the proposals.
      (3)   When the county procures goods or services and pursuant to NMSA §
13-1-21, or as amended, a county business shall be deemed to receive a 5%
preference towards the overall award.
      (4)   In applying the preference provided in this subchapter, the county
procurement preference certificate shall be applied in addition to any other
preference required by law.
   (B)   A county business shall be eligible to utilize the preference
established in this subchapter only when presenting, prior to or at the time
established in the solicitation for receipt of proposals or competitive sealed
bids, a county preference certificate issued by the Procurement Manager.
(Ord. 82, passed 6-14-2012)
§ 110.24 OBTAINING A PREFERENCE CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   A county business may obtain a preference certificate by filing an
application with the Procurement Manager.
   (B)   The application shall be completed on a form provided by the
Procurement Manger that contains a sworn affidavit from the president or owner
of the business setting forth each of the following:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number, and name of the business and
its registered agent (if applicable);
      (2)   If a corporation, information that the corporation is registered to
do business in the state and is in good standing, and provides a certificate of
good standing from the State Taxation and Revenue Department;
      (3)   If the business is a foreign corporation, information that the
business is registered to do business in the state and is in good standing, and
provides a certificate of good standing from the State Taxation and Revenue
Department;
      (4)   A copy of a valid business registration to do business in the
county (or a copy of the appropriate municipal business license, if located
within a municipality within the county);
      (5)   A statement that the business has maintained its primary and
permanent office or business location within the exterior boundaries of the
county for at least one year preceding the submission of the application; and
      (6)   If a foreign corporation, copies of the most recent state and
federal tax returns applicable to the business.
   (C)   The Procurement Manager shall issue a preference certificate if the
application demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Procurement Manager, that
the business holds a current business certificate at the time of application
for a preference certificate pursuant to this subchapter (or the appropriate
municipal business license, if located witl1in a municipality), that the
business has its primary and permanent office or business location within the
exterior boundaries of the county, and has maintained its primary and permanent
office or business location within the exterior boundaries of the county for at
least one consecutive year preceding the submission of the application, and if
a foreign corporation, has filed a unitary return pursuant to the Corporate
Income and Franchise Tax Act, being NMSA §§ 7-2A-1 et seq., and NMSA § 7-2A-
8.3, or as amended.
(Ord. 82, passed 6-14-2012)
§ 110.25 DENIAL OF CERTIFICATE; PROTEST, REVOCATION.
   (A)   If the Purchasing Manager determines that an applicant is not eligible
for certification, the Purchasing Manager shall deny the application and shall
issue a notice of denial.
   (B)   A business whose application for a preference certificate is denied
may protest the denial to the Procurement Manager in conformity with the
protest procedures of the purchasing regulations.
   (C)   If facts are developed by the Procurement Manager that information
provided by an applicant seeking a preference certificate has provided
inaccurate or misleading information that resulted in the issuance of a
certificate, the Procurement Manager shall revoke the certificate and notify
the applicant.
(Ord. 82, passed 6-14-2012)
§ 110.26 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   The preference certificate shall be valid for two years from date of its
issuance. A new application will be required every two years to determine
eligibility for the procurement preference.
(Ord. 82, passed 6-14-2012)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any business violating the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.06. shall be subject to penalties of not to exceed 90 days in jail or $300
fine for each violation.
      (2)   Knowingly providing false or misleading information on an
application for a procurement preference shall constitute a violation of §§
110.20 through
110.26, and shall be punished as set forth in NMSA § 4-37-3, or as amended;
knowingly providing false or misleading information on an application for a
procurement preference may also expose the person providing such information to
additional criminal penalties as provided by state law.
(Ord. 82, passed 6-14-2012; Ord. 5, passed 12-14-2023)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Application
   
111.03   License fees for solicitors, peddlers
   
111.04   Regulations
   
111.05   Application form
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the county or not, traveling by
foot, automobiles, motor truck, or any other type of conveyance, from place to
place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying, or
transporting unsolicited goods, wares, merchandise, meat, fish, vegetables,
fruits, or truck garden or farm products or provisions, offering and exposing
them for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers.
   SOLICITOR. Any person, whether a resident of the county or not, traveling
either by foot, automobile, motor truck, or any other type of conveyance, from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, personal
property, of any nature whatsoever, for future delivery, or for services,
whether or not such individual has, carries, or exposes for sale a sample of
the subject of such sale, or whether he or she is collecting advance payment on
such sales or not.
(Ord. 11, passed 3-19-1986)
§ 111.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for licenses by solicitors and peddlers shall by made to
the County Clerk, shall be sworn and in writing, and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Name and physical description of the applicant;
      (2)   Address;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business to be conducted
and the goods to be sold, and, if the goods are farm or orchard products, a
statement whether they are produced or grown by the applicant;
      (4)   If the applicant is employed, the name and address of the employer,
together with credentials establishing the exact relationship;
      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      (6)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together
with the state vehicle license number or other means of identification; and
      (7)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any municipal ordinance, and if so,
the nature of the offense, and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
   (B)   An applicant for a solicitor’s or peddler’s permit shall supply the
County Clerk with one photograph at the time of the application, which
photograph shall show the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and
distinguishing manner.
(Ord. 11, passed 3-19-1986)
§ 111.03 LICENSE FEES FOR SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS.
   The fee for solicitors and peddlers shall be:
   (A)   Twenty-five dollars per year for all peddlers and solicitors having an
established place of business within the county; and
   (B)   One hundred dollars per day.
(Ord. 11, passed 3-19-1986)
§ 111.04 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A peddler or solicitors, or any person on his or her behalf, shall
not:
      (1)   Shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any sound
device or musical instrument, including any loud speaking radio or sound
amplifying system, on any of the streets or other public places of the county
or on any private premises in the county where sound of sufficient volume is
emitted or produced therefrom to be capable of being plainly heard on such
public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares, or
merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell;
      (2)   (a)   Have any exclusive right to any location in the public
streets, shall not be permitted a stationary location, and shall not be
permitted to operate in any congested area where his or her operations might
impede or inconvenience the public; and
         (b)   For the purpose of this chapter, the judgment of a law
enforcement officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to
whether the area is congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
      (3)   Sell or offer for sale goods, wares, or merchandise from vehicles
on any of the public streets of the county, provided however, that the
prohibition herein contained shall not include the peddling from door to door
or from vehicles of fresh food products of farm or garden, nor bona fide
deliveries of goods, wares, merchandise, or food made on a regular route to
regular customers;
      (4)   Solicit or peddle from 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m., or any time when a
sign has been posted on a building stating “No solicitors or peddlers,” or
words to that effect, except that a licensed solicitor or peddler may call upon
the occupant of a residence at other times when he or she has received express
prior permission from such occupant to do so; and/or
      (5)   Cast, throw, distribute, deposit, scatter, pass out, give away,
circulate, or deliver any commercial or business handbill, dodger, circular, or
other advertising material or device to any residence or business, or leave the
same on any porch, doorstep, or vestibule thereof, or in any yard or public
hallway thereof, or on any vacant lot or other private property in the county,
without first having obtained the express consent or without the express
request of an adult resident or occupant thereof.
   (B)   This chapter shall not prohibit solicitations for a charitable,
religious, education, community, recreational, or similar non-profit purpose by
means of calling upon places of residences or by means of direct personal
contact in public places or upon public property.
(Ord. 11, passed 3-19-1986) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 APPLICATION FORM.
Application for License or Permit
to Peddler or Solicit
I, __________________________________, do hereby make application for license to
peddle merchandise or solicit orders therefor in the County of Luna in compliance
with the ordinances of such County.
Street address: ______________________________ City: ________________________
State: ________________ Age: _______ Weight: _________ Height: _________
Color of hair: _____________ Sex: ________
Length of time license is desire:
_______________________________________________________
Name of firm or corporation represented:
_______________________________________________
Address:
_________________________________________________________________________
Business phone: ______________________ Home phone:
__________________________________
Description of business:
_____________________________________________________________
Number of vehicles to be operated:
____________________________________________________
Kind of vehicle(s) to be operated:
_____________________________________________________
Method of distribution:
_____________________________________________________________
Kind of service to be performed:
______________________________________________________
Prior arrests: Yes ____ No ___ Reason:
________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________
Remarks:
_________________________________________________________________________
   _______________________________
 
(Ord. 11, passed 3-19-1986)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable as a petty misdemeanor in
accordance with the laws of the state.
(Ord. 11, passed 3-19-1986)
CHAPTER 112: SALVAGE YARDS
Section
   
112.01   Regulations
   
112.02   Screening
   
112.03   Unlicensed salvage yards
   
112.04   Agricultural equipment salvage materials
   
112.05   Violations
§ 112.01 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Only salvage yards licensed by the State Department of Motor Vehicles
may carry on or conduct the active trade or business of dismantling any vehicle
for the resale of parts. Any person possessing more than three wrecked,
dismantled, or partially wrecked or dismantled vehicles, and selling or
offering for sale a used part, and who regularly sells or offers for sale used
vehicles or used vehicle parts, shall be presumed to be conducting the business
of wrecking or dismantling a vehicle for the resale of the parts.
   (B)   All legally established salvage yard shall be adequately screened as
defined in §
112.02.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Dealers, wreckers, and dismantlers, see
Chapter 113
§ 112.02 SCREENING.
   (A)   Any salvage yard existing on the effective date of this chapter shall
be adequately screened from any public right-of-way or from any residential
property within 200 yards of the salvage yard.
   (B)   ADEQUATELY SCREENED, for purposes of this section, shall mean solid or
opaque fencing, or trees, shrubs, or other vegetation that is of sufficient
height and density to fully obscure the view of the salvage materials from a
point eight feet above the ground on any public right-of-way, or any
residential property within 200 yards of the salvage yard. Construction
materials, such as lumber, brick, or stone, used for fencing and screening
shall be durable and in good condition, securely anchored, and fastened to
protect it from damage sustained by wind. Use of old metals, poor quality
building materials, and materials such as wood boxes, crates or pallets, and
used tires is prohibited, unless previously approved by the LCBO or the Code
Compliance Officer. Building permits are required for fences six feet or more
in height.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 112.03 UNLICENSED SALVAGE YARDS.
   Any unlicensed salvage yard existing on any site in the county on the
effective date of this chapter shall discontinue all operation on the effective
date of this chapter. All salvage materials, and any and all items intended for
salvage, and all equipment and machinery associated with the salvage operation,
shall be removed from the site to either a licensed salvage yard or to a
location outside of the county. The site shall be left in a clean and tidy
condition to the satisfaction of the County Code Compliance Officer. Failure to
comply may result in the county invoking abatement measures as set out in §§
90.55 through
90.59. Any owner of such site that does not comply with this section shall be
subject to the penalties set out in §§
90.55 through
90.59.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 112.04 AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT SALVAGE MATERIALS.
   Any persons in the county engaged in agricultural operations shall be
permitted to maintain agricultural equipment salvage materials on their
property for parts, repair, and replacement purposes.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 112.05 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, property owner, or property occupant that commits or knowingly
allows the commission of any act in violation of this chapter, shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the same penalties as set forth in §§
90.55 through
90.59.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
CHAPTER 113: DEALERS, WRECKERS, DISMANTLERS; TOWING OPERATIONS
Section
Towing Operations
   
113.01   Screening
Dealers, Wreckers, Dismantlers
   
113.15   Licensing
   
113.16   Regulations
   
113.17   Physical place of business
TOWING OPERATIONS
§ 113.01 SCREENING.
   All towing services operating in the county shall be legally established and
shall abide by the following regulations: All vehicles, including trailers and
mobile homes, towed by a towing service shall be stored in a yard that is
adequately screened. For purposes of this section, ADEQUATELY SCREENED shall
have the same meaning as is set out in §
112.02(B).
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
DEALERS, WRECKERS, DISMANTLERS
§ 113.15 LICENSING.
   All dealers, wreckers, wholesalers, and distributors of any vehicle, and
title service companies and any towing operation engaged in the business of
selling, wrecking, wholesaling, or distributing vehicles, shall be legally
established, meaning licensed by the Motor Vehicle Division of the Department
of Taxation and Revenue as set out in NMSA § 66-4-1.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 113.16 REGULATIONS.
   Any dealer or wrecker, or any towing service engaged in the business of the
dealing or the wrecking of vehicles, shall comply with the following
regulations and criteria: An established place of business must be maintained.
An ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS shall be as defined in the State Motor Vehicle
Code, and for purposes of this subchapter shall mean a place:
   (A)   Devoted exclusively to the business for which the dealer or wrecker is
licensed and the business incidental thereto;
   (B)   Identified by a prominently displayed sign giving the dealer’s or
wrecker’s trade name used by the business;
   (C)   Of sufficient size or space to permit the display of one or more
vehicles or to permit the parking or storing of vehicles to be dismantled or
wrecked;
   (D)   On which there is located an enclosed building on a permanent
foundation, which building meets the building requirements of the county and is
large enough to accommodate the office or offices of the dealer or the wrecker,
and large enough to provide a safe place to keep the books and records of the
dealer or wrecker;
   (E)   Where the principal portion of the business of the dealer or wrecker
is conducted and where the books and records of the business are kept and
maintained; and
   (F)   (1)   Where vehicle sales are of new vehicles only, such as a
department store or a franchise of a department store, as long as the
department store or franchise keeps the books and records of its vehicle
business in a general office location at its place of business.
      (2)   As used in this section, DEPARTMENT STORE means a business that
offers a variety of merchandise other than vehicles, and sales of the
merchandise other than vehicles constitutes at least 80% of the gross sales of
the business.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 113.17 PHYSICAL PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Any title service company must maintain a physical place of business
accessible to the public. Each such place of business shall be open to
inspection by a law enforcement officer or the Department of Taxation and
Revenue during reasonable business hours.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-8-2010)
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
114.01   Purpose; policy; authority; exclusion
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Obscene display or distribution
   
114.04   Destruction of materials seized
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE; POLICY; AUTHORITY; EXCLUSION.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners, hereinafter “the Board,” hereby
declares the promotion, commercial exhibition, or sale or possession for such
purposes of obscene material as defined herein to be public nuisances per se.
   (B)   Nothing herein is intended to cover, affect, include, or proscribe the
specific conduct, matters, or material which are prohibited or regulated as to
minors by, or to apply to minors who are protected by NMSA §§ 30-37-1 through
30-37-8. Neither is this chapter intended to apply to any matter used in a bona
fide program of medical or psychological treatment, or a distributed or
displayed non-profit program by a publicly owned or other non-profit library or
educational institution, or used in a bona fide educational program of a bona
fide for-profit educational institution; or while used, distributed, displayed,
or sold or held for use, distribution, display, or sale exclusively under these
conditions. Nor is this chapter intended to apply to possession of obscene
material in a private home for exclusively private use.
(Ord. 14, passed 6-8-1990)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY. The geographical area of the county.
   MATERIAL. Anything tangible that is capable of being used or adapted to
arouse interest, whether through the medium of reading, observation, sound, or
in any other manner, which includes, but is not limited to, magazines, books,
leaflets, pamphlets, booklets, pictures, photographs, drawings, films,
negatives, videos, slides, or motion pictures, but does not include an actual
three-dimensional obscene device.
   OBSCENE. Material or performance that:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find that, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest in sex.
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find that it depicts or describes:
         (a)   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate
sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including sexual
intercourse, sodomy, and sexual bestiality; or
         (b)   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of
masturbation, excretory functions, sadism, masochism, lewd exhibition of the
genitals, the male or female genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal, covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, or a device
designed and marketed as useful primarily for stimulation of the human genital
organs.
      (3)   Reasonable person would find, taken as a whole, lacks serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value.
   OBSCENE DEVICE. A device including a dildo, or artificial vagina designed or
marketed as useful primarily for the stimulation of human genital organs.
   PERFORMANCE. A play, motion picture, dance, or other exhibition performed
before an audience.
   PROMOTE. To manufacture, issue, sell, give, provide, lease, rent, deliver,
transfer, transmit, publish, distribute, circulate, disseminate, present,
exhibit, or advertise, or to offer or agree to do the same. Nothing herein
shall be construed so as to restrict or prohibit the use of material or devices
by adults in the privacy of personal residences not for monetary gain or
valuable consideration.
   PRURIENT INTEREST. A lascivious, shameful, or morbid interest in sex.
(Ord. 14, passed 6-8-1990)
§ 114.03 OBSCENE DISPLAY OR DISTRIBUTION.
   A person commits an offense if he or she, knowing its contents and
character:
   (A)   Promotes or possesses with intent to promote any obscene material or
obscene device; or
   (B)   Produces, presents, or directs an obscene performance.
(Ord. 14, passed 6-8-1990)
§ 114.04 DESTRUCTION OF MATERIALS SEIZED.
   Any material or device, as previously defined in this chapter, seized
pursuant to this chapter is contraband and shall be destroyed after obtaining
an order for its destruction from the court.
(Ord. 14, passed 6-8-1990)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   An offense under this chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to
exceed $300 or imprisonment for 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 14, passed 6-8-1990)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MINORS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: MINORS
Section
Curfew for Minors
   
130.01   Short title
   
130.02   Authority
   
130.03   General prohibition
   
130.04   Accessory
   
130.05   Parental responsibility
Consumption of Alcohol
   
130.20   Findings
   
130.21   Purpose
   
130.22   Definitions
   
130.23   Responsibility for proper property ownership
   
130.24   Prohibited acts
   
130.25   Dedication of funds
   
130.26   Enforcement
   
130.27   Recovery of response costs
   
130.28   Appeals and hearings
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.01 SHORT TITLE.
   The subchapter shall be known as the “Daytime Curfew Ordinance” and shall be
referred to herein as “the ordinance” or “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 31, passed 8-14-1997)
§ 130.02 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted as an exercise of the county’s inherent police
power to protect the citizenry and peace within the county.
(Ord. 31, passed 8-14-1997)
§ 130.03 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years and subject to the compulsory
school attendance law shall be upon or about public streets, public places, or
public places of amusement and entertainment within the county during the hours
when said person is required, by state law, to be in attendance at either a
public or private school, a home school, or a state institution.
   (B)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city or county civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9) Married or has been married been married or had disabilities of
minority removed in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 31, passed 8-14-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 ACCESSORY.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to encourage or assist any person subject
to the compulsory school attendance law to fail or refuse to attend or return
to school unless said absence is excused by an appropriate school official, or
such absence is excused herein or otherwise recognized by state law.
(Ord. 31, passed 8-14-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
   When a person subject to the compulsory school attendance law is found to be
in violation of this section, the parent or legal guardian shall be cited and
fined in accordance with the penalties herein. It is the intention of this
section to hold the parents or legal guardian vicariously and strictly liable.
(Ord. 31, passed 8-14-1997)
CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL
§ 130.20 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Minors often obtain, possess, or consume alcoholic beverages at
underage or unruly gatherings held at private residences or at rented
residential and commercial premises under the control of a person who knows, or
should know, of such conduct but fails to stop it.
   (B)   Underage consumption of alcoholic beverages poses an immediate threat
to the public health, safety, and welfare in that it increases alcohol abuse by
minors, physical altercations, violent crimes, including rape and other sexual
offenses, accidental injury, neighborhood vandalism, and excessive noise
disturbance, all of which may require intervention by local law enforcement.
Underage or unruly gatherings with large numbers of underage drinkers and
inadequate or no adult supervision are particularly high risk settings for
these adverse consequences.
   (C)   The State Department of Health conducts a youth risk and resiliency
survey every two years in middle and high schools across the state, including
Deming Public Schools. The survey asks students to report on a variety of
behavior indicators, including underage alcohol consumption. In 2013, the most
recent year for which data is available, youth in the county surpassed the
state averages in most indicators measuring alcohol consumption, including the
most dangerous categories of binge drinking (four or more drinks for a female
in one session, and five or more drinks for a male in one session) and extreme
binge drinking (ten or more drinks in a session). Thirty percent of high school
students reported binge drinking. See Attachment A and Attachment B of the
survey attached to the ordinance codified in this subchapter for study
methodology and full breakdown of alcohol-related statistics from middle and
high school students in Deming Public Schools.
   (D)   Eighty percent of the high school students who admitted to drinking
alcohol indicated they had consumed it in a social setting, either at their own
home or another person’s home. See Attachment B, page 38 of the survey attached
to the ordinance codified in this subchapter.
   (E)   Owners of private property who have been notified, in writing, in
accordance with this subchapter that their tenants are hosting or otherwise
permitting underage or unruly gatherings where alcoholic beverages are served
to or consumed by underage persons have a responsibility to ensure that such
activities do not recur on their property. The failure to take action after
such notice causes serious disruption to the quiet enjoyment of neighboring
residents and impacts to the health and well-being of underage persons and the
community at large.
   (F)   Law enforcement responses to disturbances involving underage
consumption of alcoholic beverages at underage or unruly gatherings frequently
require the use of extensive resources. Further, when law enforcement personnel
respond to disturbances at underage or unruly gatherings it limits their
ability to respond to other service calls in the community, thereby placing the
community at increased risk. Law enforcement is not currently reimbursed for
their expenses when called to an underage or unruly gathering. Providing law
enforcement the authority to direct the host to disperse the gathering and to
cite the responsible persons will ease the burden on law enforcement personnel
to control and deter such gatherings.
   (G)   Law enforcement, fire, and other emergency response services personnel
are required to respond, sometimes on multiple occasions, to underage or unruly
gatherings at private residences and other private property at which alcoholic
beverages are served to or consumed by underage persons, and responses to such
gatherings result in a disproportionate expenditure of public safety resources
of the county, which are underwritten by gross receipts and property taxes paid
to the county by its taxpayers and residents, and delaying police responses to
regular and emergency calls to the rest of the county.
   (H)   In 2013, underage drinking cost the state approximately $478 million
in costs related to youth violence, youth traffic crashes, high-risk sex, youth
injury, and other factors. See Attachment C of the survey attached to the
ordinance codified in this subchapter for fact sheet and sources.
   (I)   The prohibitions found in this subchapter are reasonable and expected
to deter minors from obtaining, possessing, and consuming alcoholic beverages
by holding responsible persons who encourage, are aware of, or should be aware
of, the illegal conduct yet fail to prevent it.
   (J)   For these reasons, the county declares that underage drinking or
unruly gatherings at private residences or other private property are a threat
to the public peace, health, safety, and general welfare, and a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 95, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 130.21 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this subchapter are:
   (A)   To protect the public health, safety, general welfare, and quiet
enjoyment of residential property; and
   (B)   To facilitate the enforcement of laws prohibiting the service of
alcoholic beverages to underage persons, and the consumption or possession of
alcoholic beverages by underage persons.
(Ord. 95, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 130.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any liquid or solid material intended to be ingested by
a person which contains ethanol, also known as ethyl alcohol, drinking alcohol,
or alcohol, including, but not limited to, alcoholic beverages as defined in
NMSA § 60-3A-3, intoxicating liquor, malt beverage, beer, wine, spirits,
liqueur, whiskey, rum, vodka, cordials, gin, and brandy, and any mixture
containing one or more alcoholic beverages. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE includes a
mixture of one or more alcoholic beverages whether found or ingested separately
or as a mixture.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug or substance, the possession and use of which
is regulated under the federal Controlled Substances Act, being 21 U.S.C. §§
801 et seq. Such term does not include any drug or substance for which the
individual found to have consumed such substance has a valid prescription
issued by a licensed medical practitioner authorized to issue such a
prescription.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN. A person who is lawfully vested with the power and charged
with the duty of taking care of a minor.
   MINOR or UNDERAGE PERSON. Any person under the age of 21 years.
   PARENT. Any person who is a natural parent, an adoptive parent, a foster
parent, or a step-parent.
   PRIVATE RESIDENCE or OTHER PRIVATE PROPERTY. A home, yard, apartment,
condominium, or hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or
meeting room, whether occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether
occupied as a dwelling, party, or other social function, and whether owned,
leased, rented, or used with or without compensation, including contiguous
properties, and/or any buildings, structures, or other improvements situated
thereon or affixed thereto.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The owner of a private residence or other private property
as determined by the records of the County Assessor’s office.
   RESPONSE COSTS. The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to loud or unruly gatherings
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, fire, or other emergency
response personnel for the amount of time spent responding to, remaining at, or
otherwise dealing with loud or unruly gatherings, and the administrative costs
attributable to such response(s);
      (2)   The cost of any medical treatment to or for any law enforcement,
fire, or other emergency response personnel injured responding to, remaining
at, or leaving the scene of a loud or unruly gathering; or
      (3)   The cost of repairing any county equipment or property damaged, and
the cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at, or
leaving the scene of a loud or unruly gathering.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. A person or persons with a right of possession in the
private residence or other private property on which an underage or unruly
gathering is conducted, including, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The person who owns, rents, leases, or otherwise has control of the
premises where the gathering occurs;
      (2)   A tenant or lessee of the residence or other private property;
      (3)   Any other person in charge of the private residence or other
private property;
      (4)   The person who organizes or supervises, or conducts, the event or
any other person(s) accepting responsibility for such a gathering; and
      (5)   A property owner that has been sent three notifications within a
12-month period of citations for underage drinking or unruly gatherings having
been issued on property owned by a property owner.
   UNDERAGE GATHERING. A party or gathering of two or more persons at a private
residence or other private property at which alcoholic beverages are being
furnished to, consumed by, or in possession of any underage person.
   UNRULY GATHERING.
      (1)   A party or gathering of two or more persons at a private residence
or other private property where conduct is occurring that constitutes a
substantial disturbance of the quiet enjoyment of private or public property,
as determined by law enforcement.
      (2)   Such conduct includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Excessive noise;
         (b)   Excessive traffic that is an impediment to the normal amount of
pedestrian and vehicle traffic;
         (c)   Use of a controlled substance by any person at the gathering;
         (d)   Obstruction of public streets and/or the presence of unruly
crowds that have spilled into public streets;
         (e)   Public drunkenness or unlawful consumption, possession, or
furnishing of alcohol or alcoholic beverages;
         (f)   Assaults, batteries, fights, domestic violence, or other
disturbances of the peace;
         (g)   Vandalism;
         (h)   Litter; or
         (i)   Any other conduct which constitutes a threat to the public
health, safety, quiet enjoyment of residential property, or the general
welfare.
(Ord. 95, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 130.23 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPER PROPERTY OWNERSHIP.
   Every owner, occupant, lessee, or holder of any possessory interest of a
private residence or other private property within the county is required to
maintain, manage, and supervise the property and all persons thereon in a
manner so as not to violate the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 95, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 130.24 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any responsible person to host, conduct, aid,
allow, permit, or condone an underage gathering or unruly gathering at any
private residence or other private property.
   (B)   A responsible person who hosts an event or gathering as described in
division (A) above does not have to be present at the event or gathering to be
held responsible for civil penalties and/or response costs.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in a private residence or other
private property.
(Ord. 95, passed 12-10-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.25 DEDICATION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   All revenue collected from penalties for violation of this subchapter
shall be deposited in an account dedicated to funding activities associated
with this subchapter.
   (B)   Funding shall be placed toward enforcement and administration through
the County Sheriff’s office.
(Ord. 95, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 130.26 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter can be enforced by any commissioned law enforcement
officer in the county.
   (B)   When a law enforcement officer makes an initial response to an
underage gathering or unruly gathering at a residence or other private property
within the county, the officer may issue a citation for violation of this
subchapter to all identified responsible persons.
   (C)   If the responsible person present at the time of the violation is
underage then the officer may subsequently return to the residence or other
private property and issue a citation to a then-present responsible person(s)
and warning to the property owner.
   (D)   If the resident of the private property is a renter, then within 30
calendar days of initial citation of the renter for violation of this
subchapter, a copy of the written warning shall be transmitted to the property
owner of record. If the renter of said rental property violates this subchapter
three times or more within a 12-month period and written notification has been
provided the property owner, the property owner shall be subject to fines
following the fine schedule. It is the responsibility of property owners to
ensure their tenants are not reoccurring hazards to public safety.
(Ord. 95, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 130.27 RECOVERY OF RESPONSE COSTS.
   When a law enforcement officer issues a second or subsequent citation within
12-months of an earlier citation given to responsible person(s) at the same
residence or private property, all responsible persons who received a previous
warning may be held jointly and severally liable for the county’s response
costs concerning such second or subsequent underage gathering or unruly
gathering. Only those who were responsible person(s) at both the first and
subsequent underage gathering or unruly gathering shall be subject to response
costs. In the event the responsible person is a tenant, the property owner
shall not be responsible for response costs until after the property owner or
landlord has received three written notifications that the tenant at issue has
been cited in accordance with this subchapter. Response costs shall be included
with the fine set forth in §
130.99(C).
(Ord. 95, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 130.28 APPEALS AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person upon whom a fine is imposed pursuant to §
130.99(C) or recovery cost pursuant to §
130.27 shall have the right to appeal the imposition of such fine or response
cost pursuant to the procedures established by this code for appealing.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a notice of a fine or recovery cost, the person may
request a hearing before the hearing officer to show cause as to why the person
should not be liable for the violation of this subchapter. Such requests must
be filed in writing with the County Manager within ten calendar days of the
date of written notice of the fine or response cost. The person shall be given
written notice by personal delivery or certified or registered mail of the
hearing at least ten calendar days before the hearing.
   (C)   All hearings shall be open to the public and shall be held only after
notice is given to the person appealing the fine.
   (D)   (1)   The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer.
      (2)   The hearing officer shall be appointed by the County Manager.
      (3)   Formal rules of evidence shall not apply to the conduct of the
hearing.
      (4)   Cross-questioning is neither prohibited nor encouraged. The hearing
officer has full discretion whether to allow it.
      (5)   The hearing officer may hear testimony from any witness.
      (6)   After calling the meeting to order, the hearing officer shall
outline the procedure to be followed in the conduct of the hearing.
      (7)   The hearing may be recessed or adjourned to another time and/or
place upon the discretion of the hearing officer.
   (E)   The decision of the hearing officer may be appealed to the District
Court.
(Ord. 95, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The first violation of §§
130.01 through
130.05 shall result in a written warning being issued to the parent or legal
guardian of the person in violation. The Board of County Commissioners strongly
recommends that five hours of community service be included for the first
violation.
      (2)   The second violation of §§
130.01 through
130.05 by the same person within 12 months of the first violation shall result
in a fine of $50. The Board of County Commissioners strongly recommends that
ten hours of community service be included for the second violation.
      (3)   The third violation of §§
130.01 through
130.05 by the same person within 12 months of the first violation shall result
in a fine of $100. Each subsequent violation of §§
130.01 through
130.05 by the same person within 12 months of the third violation shall result
in a fine of $150.
   (C)   (1)   Responsible persons violating §§
130.20 through
130.28 shall be fined as follows:
         (a)   First violation: Citation with an administrative penalty of $250
fine;
         (b)   A second violation within a 12-month period: Citation with an
administrative penalty of $500 fine;
         (c)   A third or subsequent violation within a 12-month period:
Citation with an administrative penalty of $1,000 fine; and
         (d)   If the person responsible for the event is underage, the parents
or legal guardians of the person may be jointly and severally liable for the
civil penalties pursuant to §§
130.20 through
130.28. A parent or legal guardian shall not be liable for the fine amount for
a first violation if the parent can demonstrate he or she did not have prior
knowledge of the underage gathering or unruly gathering. In the event the
parent or legal guardian learns of the underage or unruly gathering while such
gathering is occurring, the parent or legal guardian must additionally
demonstrate that he or she contacted law enforcement immediately upon learning
of the underage or unruly gathering, and took steps to stop the underage
gathering or unruly gathering. All other responsible persons shall remain
liable for this fine.
      (2)   In the event a tenant is the responsible person, upon the third
notification to the property owner of underage and/or unruly gatherings on the
property within a 12-month period, the property owner shall be fined as set
forth in divisions (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b), and (C)(1)(c) above. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, an owner shall not be fined if he or she can demonstrate that he
or she has taken or is in the process of taking all action legally required to
remove the tenant from the property.
      (3)   The fines set forth in divisions (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b), and (C)(1)
(c) above may be appealed pursuant to §
130.28. The payment of any such fines shall be stayed upon any timely appeal.
(Ord. 31, passed 8-14-1997; Ord. 95, passed 12-10-2015)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
Use, Possession, Sale of Synthetic Cannabinoids
   
131.01   Short title
   
131.02   Jurisdiction
   
131.03   Purpose
   
131.04   Definitions
   
131.05   Possession, use, sale
   
131.06   Drug paraphernalia prohibited
   
131.07   Administration and enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
USE, POSSESSION, SALE OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
§ 131.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Synthetic Cannabinoid Ordinance,” and
shall be referred to herein as “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 80, passed 1-13-2011)
§ 131.02 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall provide for the regulation of the possession, use, and
sale of synthetic cannabinoids, by whatever slang term such products are known,
and salvia divinorum within the county but not within the boundaries of
municipalities.
(Ord. 80, passed 1-13-2011)
§ 131.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the general health and welfare
of the people of the county through the regulation of the possession, use, and
sale of synthetic cannabinoids and salvia divinorum to protect the essential
conditions of health and safety in the county.
(Ord. 80, passed 1-13-2011)
§ 131.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   K-2 or SPICE, GENIE, OASCENTS, ZOHAI, SAGE. Is defined as slang terms that
refer to any substance, whether described as tobacco, herbs, incense, spice, or
any blend thereof, regardless of whether the substance is marketed for the
purpose of being smoked, which includes any one or more of the following
chemicals:
      (1)   Salvia divinorum or salvinorin A. All parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvla divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its
seeds, or extracts;
      (2)   2-[(1R, 3S)-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methylocatan-2-yl) phenol (also
known as CP47, 497) and homologues;
      (3)   (6aS, 10aS)-9-(hydroxmethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a, 7, 10, 10a- tetrahydrobenzo [c] chormen-1-ol) (also known as HU-211 or
dexanabinol);
      (4)   1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-018); or
      (5)   Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-073).
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID. Manufactured chemical compounds identified in the
definition for K-2 above, which mimic the effects of THC, the active principle
in cannabis, and are found in “herbal” smoking mixtures commonly sold as
“spice” or any of the other slang terms for these products. SYNTHETIC
CANNABINOID compounds are sprayed onto a mix of inert plant ingredients,
usually free of tobacco or cannabis, to produce these smoking mixtures.
(Ord. 80, passed 1-13-2011)
§ 131.05 POSSESSION, USE, SALE.
   The possession, sale, and use of K-2, spice, genie, dascents, zohai, sage,
or salvia oivinorum, or any other synthetic cannabinoid with any of the
chemicals identified in §
131.04 as a compound, is prohibited.
(Ord. 80, passed 1-13-2011) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED.
   It shalt be unlawful for any person to use or possess with intent to use an
ingestion device to inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce a synthetic
cannabinoid into a person’s system. An ingestive device shall be considered
drug paraphernalia according to the definition section found in NMSA § 30-31-2.
(Ord. 80, passed 1-13-2011) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Sheriff, and any other official designated by the Board of County
Commissioners, shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 80, passed 1-13-2011)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating or failing, or refusing to comply with, the
provisions of §§
131.01 through
131.07 and the codes adopted shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be
prosecuted in any court of competent jurisdiction within the county, and shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $300, or imprisonment for not more than
90 days, or both,
(Ord. 80, passed 1-13-2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   MANUFACTURED, MOBILE HOMES; RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   UTILITY FACILITIES
      
155.   AIRPORT ZONING
      
156.   SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Short title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Jurisdiction
   
150.04   Definitions; meaning of terms
Building Standards
   
150.15   Adoption of Building Code; other codes
   
150.16   Copies of codes available for inspection
   
150.17   Fee schedule
   
150.18   Building permits required
   
150.19   Exceptions
   
150.20   Alternate materials, design, methods of construction
   
150.21   Use of waste tires for construction
   
150.22   On-site utility, development requirements
   
150.23   Smoke detectors
   
150.24   Flood hazard regulations
   
150.25   Stormwater, grading, drainage, dust control
   
150.26   Lighting
   
150.27   Roofs
   
150.28   Setback
   
150.29   Conformance mandatory; one main dwelling per lot
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.40   Administration and enforcement
   
150.41   Notice of violation
   
150.42   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.43   Prohibition
   
150.44   Citation; uniform non-traffic
   
150.45   Variance
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Building Code Ordinance,” and shall be
referred to herein as “this ordinance” or “this chapter.”
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall provide for the regulation of all construction, whether
residential or commercial, or other use, including any additions, expansions,
repairs, remodel, or renovation to any building or structures in the county;
provide for the issuance of permits for such work; establish minimum standards
of workmanship and materials to be used in such work; and provide for the
inspection, administration, penalties, and enforcement of the regulation.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.03 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall provide for the regulation of construction activities
within the county, but not within the boundaries of municipalities.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.04 DEFINITIONS; MEANING OF TERMS.
   (A)   Meaning of terms. Whenever the terms COUNTY PLANNING DIRECTOR or
COUNTY PLANNER appear in this chapter, they shall be read and understood as
including any other person or position authorized by the County Manager or the
Board of County Commissioners to administer or otherwise carry out the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Words not defined. Any word or term not defined in this chapter shall
have the meaning ascribed to it in the county subdivision ordinance, or they
shall have their ordinary accepted meaning within the context with which they
are used.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURE. An agricultural use or activity requires a tract containing
five or more contiguous acres in active, current use for the production of farm
crops for sale and profit, including vegetables, fruit, cotton, grain, and
other crops, and the processing of crops to the generally recognizable minimum
level of marketability and storage thereof on the premises; the open range
grazing of livestock or irrigated pasture for grazing livestock; animal and
poultry husbandry, dairy operations, floriculture, and horticulture; and
accessory uses customarily incidental to agricultural activities. Provided
further, that AGRICULTURE does not include commercial slaughter houses, meat
packing plants, fertilizer yards, or other similar animal related uses.
      BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or official, or inspector or other
designated authority, charged with the administration and enforcement of any
code, or the BUILDING OFFICIAL’S duly authorized representative.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certificate issued to the property owner by
the County Code Compliance Officer, or other designated county official, or a
State Building Official evidencing the fact that the requirements of this
chapter, as set forth in this chapter, have been met.
      CID. The State Construction Industries Division.
      CODE. A standard that is an extensive compilation of provisions covering
broad subject matter, or that is suitable for adoption into law, any adopted
uniform code pertaining to construction activities.
      CODE COMPLIANCE OFFICER. The person designated by the county to enforce
various county codes or ordinances.
      COMMUNITY LIQUID WASTE SYSTEM. A liquid waste system or sewerage system,
publicly or privately owned and operated, including collection and treatment
facilities constructed to serve one or more lots.
      COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A water system or utility, publicly or privately
owned, that relies on surface and/or groundwater diversions, other than wells
permitted by the State Engineer under NMSA § 72-12-1, and that consists of
common storage and/or distribution facilities operated for the delivery of
water to multiple service connections. A COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM shall
have sufficient water rights to serve all lots within the community. A
COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM shall include mutual domestic water associations
established in accordance with state law.
      CONTIGUOUS. Adjacent lots or parcels of land sharing a boundary line.
      COUNTY. Luna County, New Mexico.
      COUNTY BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners.
      DEVELOPMENT. The use of any land; the carrying out of any building
activity, including construction, reconstruction, conversion, or enlargement of
any building or structure; the making of any material change in the use, or
intensity of use, or appearance of any building, structure, or land; and the
establishment of a commercial parking lot or the dividing of land into lots,
blocks, or parcels, including the construction of roads, the installation of
water, sanitary sewer, and stormwater management facilities, or other
utilities.
      DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof, which is designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes.
      DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY.
         (a)   A self-contained living quarter attached to, or detached from,
or under the same roof as, the main or principal dwelling, located on the same
site as the main or principal dwelling created by:
            1.   The conversion of an existing single-family dwelling;
            2.   The construction of an addition to an existing single-family
dwelling; or
            3.   The construction of a detached structure which is subordinate
to the main of principal dwelling.
         (b)   The gross floor area of any such ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT shall
be no larger than 50% of the gross floor area of the original main or principal
dwelling.
      DWELLING, APARTMENT or DWELLING MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof
that contains three or more dwelling units, and for purposes of this chapter,
includes residential condominiums.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a
single housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
house, dormitory, lodging house, or hotel, as herein defined.
      FIRE MARSHAL. The County Fire Marshal, or a person discharging the duties
of FIRE MARSHAL.
      FPC. The Fire Prevention Code.
      FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP. An official map issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, where the areas within special flood hazards are
designated.
      FLOOD PRONE AREA. An area where a temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land results from the unusual and rapid
accumulation or runoff of surface waters.
      FOOTING. The portion of the foundation of a structure that spreads and
transmits loads directly to the soil or piles.
      GRADE LEVEL. The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the
ground, paving, or sidewalk within the area between the building and the
property line or, when the property line is more than five feet from the
building, between the building and a line five feet from the building.
      HABITABLE. As applied to any form of housing, such as manufactured homes,
site built homes, or mobile homes, means that there are no known defects,
damage, or deterioration to the home which creates a dangerous or unsafe
situation or condition. All plumbing, heating, and electrical systems are in
safe working order and must meet all applicable codes.
      IBC. The International Building Code.
      INSPECTOR. The County Building Inspector or the Code Compliance Officer,
or a person duly delegated by the County Building Inspector or the Code
Compliance Officer, or a person instructed or requested by the County Building
Inspector or the Code Compliance Officer, to provide a written report with
respect to any matter set out in this chapter.
      IRC. The International Residential Code.
      LCBO. The County Building Official; see also INSPECTOR and BUILDING
OFFICIAL.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by one main
building, together with its accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental
to it.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map or plat of
which has been recorded in the office of the County Clerk, or a lot described
by metes and bounds or by survey plat prepared by a land surveyor licensed in
the state, which bas been recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
      MODULAR HOME. A standardized factory fabricated transportable building
module not having a chassis or wheels of its own, designed and constructed in
accordance with the International Building Code and intended to be placed on a
permanent foundation, and requires a building permit for installation.
      NFPA. The National Fire Protection Association.
      NMBC. The New Mexico Building Code.
      NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A building or structure, or parts thereof, not
occupied in whole or in part for the purposes of human habitation, including
the land and premises appurtenant thereto.
      OCCUPANCY. The purpose that a building, or part thereof, is used or
intended to be used.
      OFFICER. The Code Compliance Officer of the county; the person designated
by the county to administer and enforce various codes and ordinances.
      OWNER. Any person, agent, firm, or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property.
      PARCEL. A unit of land capable of being described by location and
boundaries, and not dedicated for public or common use.
      PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the Building
Official, the County Planner, or other authorized authority, as appropriate,
authorizing performance of a specified activity.
      PERSON. A natural person including any individual, partnership, company,
corporation, firm, association, trust, estate, foundation, state and federal
agency, institution, county, city, town, village, or municipality or other
legal entity, however organized.
      PROPERTY. Any area, plot, or parcel of land in the county, which is under
a common ownership or is separately identified for assessment by the County
Assessor’s office. PROPERTY shall include land under the ownership of the
United States, the state, or any local government or school district entity.
This definition is intended to be inclusive and not limiting, and shall
therefore include all land within the boundaries of the county, except that the
definition of property, and therefore this chapter, shall exclude property
within the boundaries of the City of Deming and the Village of Columbus, and
any hereafter incorporated municipality.
      PROPERTY OCCUPANT. Any person who is occupying any property, whether by
legal right or without legal right.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person who is the recorded owner of any property
according to the records contained in the County Clerk’s office.
      REPAIR. The reconstruction, renewal, refinishing, or refurbishing of all
or any part of an existing building or structure, or property for the purpose
of its maintenance.
      RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any property or building that is used, designed, or
intended for use as a dwelling unit, dwelling, or apartment dwelling, and
includes the yards, accessory buildings, and vacant property belonging to such
property.
      SEWAGE. Residential liquid wastes, commercial liquid wastes, industrial
liquid wastes, and any drainage, but does not include stormwater.
      SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A system for transporting sewage owned and operated by
the county, a municipality, or a private disposal system approved by the State
Environmental Department.
      SHALL. Shall be construed as mandatory.
      SITE BUILT RESIDENCES. Residences constructed at the permanent building
site, but which may incorporate the use of some prefabricated building
components.
      SMOKE DETECTOR. An approved device that senses visible or invisible
particles of combustion.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year.
      STANDARDS. The provisions and measures of physical conditions and
occupancy set out in this chapter.
      STREET or ROAD. All property dedicated or intended for public or private
access to property, or subject to public easements therefor.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, STRUCTURE shall include a wall, fence, sign, or billboard.
      TEMPORARY. Applies to facilities or structures that are not of permanent
construction, and are not intended to be permanent erected and maintained on a
site. Tents and air supported structures are considered TEMPORARY for purposes
of this chapter.
      TERRAIN MANAGEMENT. The control of floods, drainage, and erosion, and
measures required for adapting proposed development to existing soil
characteristics and topography.
      UMC. The Uniform Mechanical Code.
      UPC. The Uniform Plumbing Code.
      UTILITY SERVICE. Connection to an electrical service pole or other
approved receptacle, or gas and water meter installation, but does not include
electrical mainline extension or gas and water mainline extension, or water
main tap or meter box and setter installation.
      USE. The use for which land or buildings are occupied or maintained,
arranged, designed, or intended.
      VARIANCE. Any deviation from the regulations of this chapter, as approved
by the Board of County Commissioners, where such variance will not be contrary
to the public interest; however, the allowable use of the premises is not
subject to change by VARIANCE.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid- or water-carried wastes removed from residential
properties, businesses, institutions, and other uses, including bath and toilet
wastes, laundry waste, and kitchen waste, but not including toxic, hazardous,
or industrial waste.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
BUILDING STANDARDS
§ 150.15 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE; OTHER CODES.
   Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, terms,
and all appendices of the latest editions of the following are hereby referred
to, adopted, and incorporated as fully as if set out verbatim herein and any
amendments thereto, including the most recent additions, updates, revisions, or
editions thereof:
   (A)   International Building Code;
   (B)   International Residential Code;
   (C)   State Commercial Building Code;
   (D)   State Residential Code;
   (E)   National Electric Code;
   (F)   State Non-Load Bearing Straw Construction Building Code (Phase III);
   (G)   State Plumbing Code;
   (H)   Uniform Plumbing and Mechanical Code;
   (I)   State Mechanical Code;
   (J)   State Electrical Code;
   (K)   State Electrical Safety Code (Phase III);
   (L)   National Fire Protection Association, Fire Prevention Code; and
   (M)   NFIP Regulations, 44 C.F.R. § 60.3, flood insurance study, and flood
insurance rate map, effective October 19, 2010.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.16 COPIES OF CODES AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION.
   One or more copies of applicable codes adopted in §
150.15 shall be available for review and inspection during regular business
hours in the office of designated official.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.17 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fee schedule for building permits shall be established. No permit shall
be issued nor shall an application be considered complete prior to the receipt
of said fee.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.18 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Any construction, residential, or commercial or other use, any additions,
expansions, repairs, remodel, or renovation to any building or structure, to
include site built and modular buildings or structures, shall have a building
permit issued by the LCBO or a State Building Official, and follow procedures
required by the codes adopted in this chapter. The building permit must be
displayed in a conspicuous place at the building site. If the LCBO, or State
Building Official or the County Code Compliance Officer, determines that the
property for which a permit has been requested is in violation, has outstanding
violations, or may be in non-compliance with any part of this chapter, or the
county subdivision ordinance, or any other applicable county, state, or federal
regulation, the LCBO, State Building Official, or the County Code Compliance
Officer may deny issuance of the permit until such time as the property has
been deemed compliant.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.19 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses, and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed
120 square feet (11.15 m2).
   (B)   Fences not over six feet high.
   (C)   Retaining walls that are not laterally supported at the top and that
retain in excess of 36 inches (915 mm) of unbalanced fill, unless supporting a
surcharge or impounding Class I, II, or III-A liquids.
   (D)   Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not
exceed 5,000 gallons (18,927 L) and the ratio of height to diameter or width
does not exceed two to one.
   (E)   Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches (762 mm) above grade
and not over any basement or story below, and which are not part of an
accessible route.
   (F)   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops, and
similar finish work.
   (G)   Temporary motion picture, television, and theater stage sets and
scenery.
   (H)   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a group R-3 occupancy, as
applicable in the NMRBC, which are less than 24 inches (610 mm) deep, do not
exceed 5,000 gallons (19,000 L), and are installed entirely aboveground.
   (I)   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural
purposes, and not including services systems.
   (J)   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to one- and two-family
dwellings.
   (K)   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall of group R-3, as
applicable in the NMRBC, and group U occupancies.
   (L)   Movable cases, counters, and partitions not over five feet, nine
inches (1,753 mm) in height.
   (M)   Any work not otherwise regulated by the state construction codes and
the CID rules.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.20 ALTERNATE MATERIALS, DESIGN, METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the International Building Code and the International
Residential Code, as amended from time to time, where materials, design, and
construction methods are specified in any of the codes or rules and regulations
adopted in §§
150.15 through
150.28, alternate materials, design, and methods of construction may be
allowed, provided any alternate has been approved and is authorized by the
County Building Official (LCBO), or other authorized official.
   (B)   The LCBO, or other authorized official, may approve any such
alternate, provided the LCBO, or other authorized official, is satisfied the
proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the provisions of those codes
and rules and regulations set out in §§
150.15 through
150.28, and that the material and method of work proposed is at least the
equivalent of that prescribed in any of the codes and rules and regulations set
out in §§
150.15 through
150.28.
   (C)   (1)   The LCBO, or other authorized official, shall require that
sufficient evidence or proof to substantiate any claims made about alternate
material, design, or methods of construction.
      (2)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing sentence, the LCBO
may require a study and/or certificate of code compliance from a qualified
engineer or architect as evidence or proof of claims made about alternate
material, design, or methods of construction.
   (D)   Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with any of the
provisions of this code or evidence that any material or construction does not
conform to the requirements of this code, the LCBO, or other authorized
official, may require tests by an approved agency as proof of compliance to be
made at no expense to the county.
   (E)   The details of any action by the LCBO, or other authorized official,
granting approval of an alternate shall be recorded and retained in the files
of the County Building Official’s office or the County Planner’s office.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.21 USE OF WASTE TIRES FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No use of waste or scrap tires, baled or non-baled, or processed
tires, or used tires, for the construction of any building or structure is
permitted on any site or lot in the county unless all of the following
conditions are met to the satisfaction of the county:
      (1)   (a)   Such proposed use constitutes no environmental hazard and
that it will not endanger the health or safety of the residents of the county;
and
         (b)   To this end, the county may require the owner, or his or her
authorized agent, to produce and submit to the county an environmental impact
assessment prepared by a qualified environmental consultant showing no adverse
environmental impact. Prior to taking any decision, the county may consult with
any state agency or it may engage its own consultant to wider take an oversight
review of the environmental impact assessment prepared by the owner’s, or his
or her authorized agent’s, consultant.
      (2)   A building permit is obtained from the Construction Industries
Division of the state;
      (3)   Written approval is obtained from the Fire Marshal, or other
authorized official, which written approval shall state clearly that there is
sufficient fire suppression measures in place on the lot or site; and that, in
his or her opinion, the county has the capability to effectively deal with any
building or structure fire that may occur. The Fire Marshal may also prescribe
specific fire prevention measures that shall be taken by the owner, or his or
her authorized agent;
      (4)   The owner, or his or her authorized agent, shall submit design and
construction plans to the County Planner and to the Construction Industries
Division showing clearly the use of waste or scrap tires, or processed tires,
and that such design complies with all requirements of the International
Building Code. These drawings shall be stamped and signed by a professional
engineer licensed in the state, or by an architect licensed in the state;
      (5)   A financial guarantee in favor of the county, in the form of a
bond, cashier’s check, or other form satisfactory to the County Attorney, and
in an amount satisfactory to the county shall be posted with the County Clerk.
The amount of the financial guarantee shall be sufficient to cover the full
cost of any clean-up, disposal of materials, and the removal of all buildings
and structures on the site or lot. The amount of the financial guarantee shall
be in the sole discretion of the county. The owner, or his or her authorized
agent, shall keep the financial guarantee current. The county shall retain the
right to request an increase in the financial guarantee as circumstances
warrant. The financial guarantee shall be released at the time the project is
completed to the satisfaction of the Building Official; and
      (6)   A permit for the proposed use is obtained from the County Planning
Department. The county shall not issue any permit unless and until it is fully
satisfied that conditions set out in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5) above have
been fulfilled.
   (B)   If the owner, or his or her authorized agent, or any successor, fails
to maintain full compliance with the condition upon which approval of a
proposed use is given, the county, after giving notice to comply, may revoke
the permit. Upon revocation, all operations shall cease and site clean-up shall
commence immediately.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.22 ON-SITE UTILITY, DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Approved on-site utilities, to include water, sewer, and electricity, are
prerequisite to the issuance of a building permit. All housing units shall be
connected to a waste disposal system permitted and approved by the State
Environment Department, a domestic water well permitted by the State Engineer,
or be connected to an approved potable water utility, whether private or
municipal. For purposes of this section:
   (A)   There shall be no multiple users connected to a domestic water well
nor to any on-site liquid waste disposal system, except for properly permitted
community water systems and properly permitted cluster wastewater systems, or
as otherwise provided herein;
   (B)   All electrical, plumbing, and gas hookups shall be inspected and
approved by an inspector of CID, as the case may be, prior to occupancy and
before a certificate of occupancy will be issued by the LCBO, or other
authorized official;
   (C)   Any water/well, sewer/septic, electric, or natural gas/LP utility
provider that connects service to individual parcels before the land owner
holds a valid building permit is in violation of this chapter, and the service
shall be disconnected;
   (D)   Any waste disposal system must be approved by the State Environment
Department; and
   (E)   No building permit or other permit shall be issued until and unless
the applicant for such permit can show, to the satisfaction of the County
Planner, that the applicant has legal access to a lot or parcel of land, either
by means of a public road or by means of a properly recorded easement, and such
access shall provide reasonable physical ingress and egress to and from the
parcel of land.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.23 SMOKE DETECTORS.
   Smoke detectors shall be required in all dwelling units to include site
built and modular, occupied or installed after the effective date of this
chapter.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.24 FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The County Floodplain Manager is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the flood hazard installation
provisions of this section and other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R.
pertaining to floodplain management. No residential, commercial, or other use
or development shall be located or installed in a flood-prone area, such as a
flood hazard area as designated by the National Flood Insurance Rate Map for
the county, or in, on, or over the path of an arroyo, or floodway without the
prior approval of the County Floodplain Manager and the issuance of a
floodplain development permit. All development and all construction related to
such development shall comply with the minimum standards as adopted by, or may
be amended by, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). A new or
replacement water supply system or sanitary sewage system may be required
within a designated flood hazard area, which shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system as well as discharges
from the system into floodwaters, and the on-site waste disposal system must be
located so as to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during
flooding.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of structures
designed for human occupancy being built in a special flood hazard area shall
be constructed such that all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and
other service facilities are located so as to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding and must meet
one of the following conditions:
      (1)   The lowest floor level elevated at least one foot above the base
flood elevation where base flood elevations are determined; and/or
      (2)   The lowest floor level, with respect to site built structures,
elevated two feet above the highest adjacent grade in areas where no base flood
elevations are determined.
   (C)   Any building or structure to be constructed in “A” Zones, as
designated by the National Flood Insurance Rate Map for the county, where no
base flood elevations are determined, must have its lowest floor level
constructed a minimum of two feet above the highest adjacent grade. The
material used to raise the lowest floor above the highest adjacent grade must
be compacted to the satisfaction of the LCBO, the County Planner, or other
authorized official, who may require that the landowner provide a report from a
qualified geo-technical consultant that the soil is sufficiently compacted to
accommodate the intended development. This section shall apply only to
dwellings or structures erected or installed after the date of this chapter, as
amended.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010) Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Flood damage prevention, see
Chapter 153
§ 150.25 STORMWATER, GRADING, DRAINAGE, DUST CONTROL.
   (A)   No property owner shall alter the natural flow of stormwater across
his, her, or their property in such a manner as to increase the flood hazard on
other properties.
   (B)   Except for agricultural operations, no person shall clear any land of
its natural vegetation without having in place and implementing a plan,
approved by the Code Compliance Officer, to prevent soil, sand, dust, and
building materials, construction waste, or other materials from being blown by
the wind from the said land. In the event the owner, lessee, occupant, or any
agent or representative thereof having charge or control of such land fails or
refuses to prevent such materials from being blown from the land by the wind,
the county may take such corrective action as it deems advisable, and the cost
of doing so shall constitute a lien on the subject land.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Lighting fixtures, lamps, and their supports and connections shall be
maintained in a safe and complete condition, without visible deterioration.
   (B)   All properties that are being developed, remodeled, refurbished, or
rehabilitated shall comply with the Night Sky Protection Act, NMSA §§ 74-12-
1 through 74-12-11.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.27 ROOFS.
   All roofs shall be kept clear of debris such as tires, concrete blocks,
rocks, and other objects, materials, and structures not approved by the
builder, manufacturer, or installer, or for which a permit has not been issued.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.28 SETBACK.
   All permitted structures shall have a 25-foot setback from the front
property line, a five-foot setback from the side property line, and a five-foot
setback from the rear property line.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.29 CONFORMANCE MANDATORY; ONE MAIN DWELLING PER LOT.
   (A)   Conformance mandatory. Except as otherwise provided by this chapter,
no building shall hereafter be used, erected, constructed, reconstructed,
moved, or altered, nor shall any land be used or developed, except in
conformity with the regulations, herein set out in applicable parts of this
chapter.
   (B)   One main dwelling unit per lot.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit hereafter erected, enlarged, or structurally
altered shall be located on a lot as defined in §
150.04, and in no case shall there be more than one main dwelling unit on one
lot.
      (2)   Land that is part of one lot and that is not in excess of the area
requirements for that lot shall not be used to satisfy the area requirements of
any other lot.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010) Penalty, see §
150.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.40 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter and all codes, rules, regulations, and other provisions
set out in said chapter shall be enforced by the County Building Official
(LCBO), who is certified by the State Construction Industries Division, and has
such powers and duties as are enumerated in, and set forth in, the current
provisions of the codes adopted in §
150.15, or by a County Code Compliance Officer. Sections
150.15 through
150.28 may be enforced by an inspector employed by the State Construction
Industries Division. The LCBO shall not enforce any code provisions pertaining
to gas service installations or related matters.
   (B)   Any Building Inspector of the County Planning Office, and the County
Fire Marshal, and any electrical inspector of the state, and any plumbing
inspector of the state, and any environmentalist of the State Environment
Department, and any engineer, or technician or technologist, or water resource
specialist, of the State Engineer’s office of the state, and any other
qualified person, may be authorized by the Code Compliance Officer to help
enforce the standards set out in this chapter, or may be requested by the Code
Compliance Officer to give a written report, or other advice to aid in the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.41 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   In addition to the criminal penalties provided for in this chapter, any such
violation, after reasonable efforts to secure voluntary compliance with this
chapter, have failed, shall be subject to abatement as follows.
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   If, after inspection, or the observation of any county or state
employee, the Officer is satisfied that a violation does exist, the Officer
shall serve, or cause to be served by personal service, or send by prepaid
registered mail to the owner of record of the property, or to the occupant or
tenant of the property, or both, and to all persons shown by the records to
have an interest in the property, a notice of violation setting out the
particulars of the violation(s). The notice shall establish that the abatement
of the violation(s) by the owner, or occupant or tenant, or both, shall begin
in not more than ten days and shall be completed in not more than 90 days after
service of the notice. The notice shall be served at the owner’s, or occupant’s
or tenant’s, last known address.
      (2)   In the event a violation of this chapter constitutes an immediate
danger to the public health and safety, the notice provisions of this division
(A) shall not apply, and the violation may be prosecuted and abated
immediately.
   (B)   Placard. If the Officer is unable to achieve service under division
(A) above, he or she may place a placard containing the terms of the notice in
a conspicuous place on the property or building, and the placing of the placard
shall be deemed to be sufficient service of the notice on the owner or other
persons.
   (C)   Extension of timeframe for abatement. Where the Officer is satisfied
that there is good and sufficient reason to extend the timeframe for abatement
of the violation(s), he or she may extend the timeframe set out in division (A)
above for a period of time not to exceed 45 days beyond the time period set out
in the original notice.
   (D)   Failure to correct. In the event the owner, occupant, or tenant of the
property where the violation exists has failed to correct the violation(s)
within the prescribed period of time, then the Officer shall issue a citation
or file a complaint charging violation of this chapter with the Magistrate
Court, or other appropriate court of jurisdiction, demanding that the owner of
the property or the occupant, or both, be held to answer to the court for the
violation.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.42 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All buildings or structures, to include site built and modular,
whether titled or untitled, are subject to this chapter and shall, prior to
use, be inspected by the LCBO, or other authorized official.
   (B)   Following the final inspection of a building or structure, the Officer
will issue a certificate of occupancy/compliance when the building or structure
is in compliance with the standards of this chapter.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.43 PROHIBITION.
   The Code Compliance Officer may issue a notice prohibiting the occupancy of
any unsafe or uninhabitable building.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.44 CITATION; UNIFORM NON-TRAFFIC.
   The use of uniform non-traffic citation forms is authorized for use in
enforcement of this chapter, except as otherwise provided.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.45 VARIANCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the Board of County Commissioners that all
variances be temporary in duration. The Board of County Commissioners may grant
a variance to the regulations set out in §
150.29 for the sole purpose of permitting one accessory dwelling unit on any
property in the county on the following grounds only to provide living
accommodation to an immediate member of the family of the owner-occupant of the
principal dwelling unit which family member requires immediate and urgent care
because he or she is disabled, physically or mentally infirm, has a disease
which is or will become debilitating, or is incapable of being gainfully
employed because of his, her, or their condition. A certificate or letter
signed by a physician licensed in the state attesting to the medical condition
and the need for care of the family member who will occupy the accessory
dwelling unit shall be required by the Board of County Commissioners as proof
of the medical condition.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners shall not grant any variance which
will cause the county to incur or absorb any costs. In granting any variance,
the Board of County Commissioners may impose such conditions as will:
      (1)   Substantially secure the objectives of the standards set out in
this chapter;
      (2)   Not adversely affect the health safety and general welfare of the
general public and the immediate property owners;
      (3)   Impose whatever time limits may be reasonable and appropriate in
the circumstances. Any variance granted shall be for a period of time not to
exceed three years from the date of granting such variance. If necessary, the
variance may be renewed prior to the expiration of the term of the variance
upon written application by the owner-occupant. Such renewal shall be for a
period of time not to exceed three years. All variances granted by the Board of
County Commissioners must be renewed prior to the expiration of either the
initial time limit imposed by the Board of County Commissioners or any renewal
period granted by the Board of County Commissioners. There shall be no limits
on the number of renewals, provided the reason for the initial variance remains
valid;
      (4)   Impose conditions on the type, quality, and design of any proposed
construction;
      (5)   Impose height limits;
      (6)   Require buffering in the form of fencing and/or vegetation to
protect and shield adjacent land uses;
      (7)   Ensure compatibility with other development in the adjacent area.
COMPATIBILITY, as used here, shall include, but is not limited to, the
following: land use, height, scale, density, water supply, and liquid waste
disposal facilities; and
      (8)   Accomplish any other purpose and effect deemed advisable and
appropriate by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (C)   The following procedure shall apply to all requests for a variance.
      (1)   All requests for a variance shall be in writing and submitted to
the County Planner. The written request shall set out the following
information:
         (a)   A description of the specific variance requested;
         (b)   The reasons for the request;
         (c)   The supporting information, such as medical certificates, for
such request;
         (d)   The period of time for which the variance is necessary (initial
variance may be for a maximum three-year period, subject to renewal); and
         (e)   A description of the action the owner-occupant will take to
discontinue the use of, and remove, the additional accessory dwelling when the
reason for the variance no longer exists.
      (2)   The County Planner shall review the written request for variance
for completeness and shall, within ten days of receipt of the request, inform
the applicant either that the request is complete or the nature of any
additional information that is required. Until the request is complete, no
further action shall be taken by the County Planner or the Board of County
Commissioners.
      (3)   The County Planner shall confer with, and seek the advice of, the
Code Compliance Officer and the County Attorney, as appropriate, with respect
to the request for variance.
      (4)   The County Planner shall notify all property owners within 500 feet
of the subject property by first class regular mail at least ten days prior to
the Board of County Commissioners meeting at which the variance application
will be heard. Such notice shall briefly describe the nature of the variance
and the date, time, and location of the hearing.
      (5)   The County Planner shall submit a written report, together with his
or her recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners, five days prior to
the hearing date.
      (6)   The Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public hearing on
all requests for a variance, or a renewal of a variance, under this section.
The public hearing shall be held at a regularly scheduled County Commissioners’
meeting. The public hearing shall be considered a quasi-judicial proceeding to
be conducted in accordance with quasi-judicial procedures adopted by the Board
of County Commissioners. The Board of County Commissioners will then decide the
matter during its regular business meeting.
      (7)   The written decision and order of the Board of County
Commissioners, together with any conditions, shall be prepared, signed, and
filed with the County Clerk within ten working days after the date the Board of
County Commissioners made its decision. The County Planner shall keep a written
record of the variance granted and shall show the location and nature of the
variance on a county map specifically designated for that purpose.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating or failing, or refusing, to comply with the provisions
of this chapter and the codes adopted may be prosecuted in any court of
competent jurisdiction within the county, and shall be punished by a fine of
not more than $300. The Board of County Commissioners may apply to the District
Court for appropriate injunctive relief to compel compliance by any person
whose conduct violates any provision of this chapter. The county shall be
entitled to recover a reasonable attorney’s fee if required to enforce this
chapter through the issuance of a demand letter, or in enforcing any portion of
this chapter in any court of competent jurisdiction. After the effective date
of this chapter, all violations are subject to issuance of a citation.
(Ord. 75, passed 8-12-2010)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Road Names, Street Signs
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Scope
   
151.04   Role of the Addressing Coordinator
   
151.05   Address reference system
   
151.06   Addressing format
   
151.07   Street naming standards
   
151.08   Address assignment
   
151.09   Display of address numbers
   
151.10   Enforcement
Right-of-Way Use
   
151.25   Purpose
   
151.26   Definitions
   
151.27   Use permit applications; requirements; fees; issuance, denial; appeal
   
151.28   Conditions of use of county right-of-way
   
151.29   Relocation of facilities
   
151.30   Alternative to permit process; right-of-way use agreement
   
151.31   Emergency use of right-of-way
   
151.32   Variances
   
151.33   Unauthorized use; fees
   
151.34   Suspension of permit
   
151.35   Time extensions for permit
   
151.36   Appeals
   
151.37   Agricultural, individual use exemption
   
151.38   Grandfather clause
 
   
151.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Instruction for right-of-way permits
   
Appendix B:   Application for permits
   
Appendix C:   Minimum acceptable traffic control plan
ROAD NAMES, STREET SIGNS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a procedure for the
assignment or reassignment of address numbers and street names for property
located within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. 118, passed 3-13-2025)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS. The combination of a set of numbers (one or more), a street name,
and a place name (including the local place name, state name, and zip code).
   STREET. Includes road, drive, access easement, driveway, right-of-way access
area, alley, highway, or thoroughfare.
   SUBADDRESS. A subaddress type word or words and subaddress identifier
(numbers, letters, or a combination of both) that uniquely identify a
separately occupied portion of a building, or an individual building or
structure, on a property with a single address and multiple buildings thereon.
   THOROUGHFARE. A linear feature that provides access to properties,
structures, and other features on the landscape.
(Ord. 118, passed 3-13-2025)
§ 151.03 SCOPE.
   (A)   The scope of this subchapter shall include the assignment or
reassignment of all official address numbers and street names to residential,
non-residential, and other improved and unimproved properties within the
boundaries of the county, the City of Deming, and the Village of Columbus
within the county’s jurisdiction, subject to a memorandum of understanding or
equivalent agreement by the county and each municipal government.
   (B)   This will include assignment of unit/suite/apartment numbers for
multi-occupant buildings. It shall not include the assignment of parcel
identification numbers to real estate.
(Ord. 118, passed 3-13-2025)
§ 151.04 ROLE OF THE ADDRESSING COORDINATOR.
   The Addressing Coordinator, appointed by the Chief Information Officer (or
equivalent), shall be responsible for the assignment and notification of all
new street names and address information. The Addressing Coordinator shall also
be responsible for facilitating changes to existing street names, address
numbers, and subaddresses, when necessary.
   (A)   Assignment of address numbers. The Addressing Coordinator shall assign
or reassign official address numbers in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Street naming. The Addressing Coordinator shall be responsible for
researching, verifying, and recommending to the BOCC the official name, type,
and directional for streets within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (C)   Database development and maintenance. The Addressing Coordinator shall
be responsible for the maintenance of the Master Address Repository (MAR). This
MAR shall contain the address numbers, street names, and subaddresses which
have been assigned to parcels of land, buildings, and their internal
occupancies, or other facilities.
   (D)   Addressing and street naming policies and procedures manual. The
Addressing Coordinator shall be responsible for maintaining the “Addressing and
Street Naming Policies and Procedures Manual” that sets forth the address
reference system rules and other guidelines for the assignment of address
numbers, street names, and subaddresses throughout the jurisdiction of this
chapter. The manual may be amended from time to time by the Addressing
Coordinator to reflect new land use patterns, changes in addressing conditions,
and other changes as necessary.
(Ord. 118, passed 3-13-2025)
§ 151.05 ADDRESS REFERENCE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Address number assignments or reassignments shall be based on
coordinate systems established within the county, the City of Deming, and the
Village of Columbus. These are the base lines for the purpose of address number
assignment and determining whether a street directional is necessary. A
directional is used for streets that cross the aforementioned north/south or
east/west meridians.
   (B)   Each street running east and west, or substantially in that course,
shall, for the purpose of numbering under this section, begin at the north and
south side of the north/south meridian, as the case may be, with number one,
increasing east and west from such initial point to the corporate limits of the
county, as they now exist or may hereafter be extended.
   (C)   Each street running north and south, or substantially in that course,
shall, for the purpose of numbering under this section, begin at the east and
west side of the east/west meridian, as the case may be, with number one,
increasing north and south from such initial point to the corporate limits of
the county, as they now exist or may hereafter be extended.
(Ord. 118, passed 3-13-2025)
§ 151.06 ADDRESSING FORMAT.
   All addresses shall comply with the Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC)
United States Thoroughfare, Landmark, and Postal Address Data Standard. Each
address shall, at a minimum, be comprised of the following elements, in the
following order:
   (A)   Address number, conforming to the address reference system coordinate
grid;
   (B)   Directional prefix, as necessary, based upon the address reference
system;
   (C)   Street name, conforming to this subchapter and the “Addressing and
Street Naming Policies and Procedures Manual;”
   (D)   Street type, conforming to the list maintained in the “Addressing and
Street Naming Policies and Procedures Manual;”
   (E)   Subaddress type, as necessary, and conforming to the “Addressing and
Street Naming Policies and Procedures Manual;” and
   (F)   Subaddress identifier, as necessary. The subaddress identifier may be
comprised of letters, numbers, or a combination of the two.
(Ord. 118, passed 3-13-2025)
§ 151.07 STREET NAMING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Street names required. Street names are required for planned or
existing public or private streets, or for alleys and driveways which serve as
the primary means of ingress or egress for two or more buildings or other
facilities subject to the rules defined in the “Addressing and Street Naming
Policies and Procedures Manual.”
   (B)   Signage. All named streets shall be properly marked with signage in
accordance with the “Addressing and Street Naming Policies and Procedures
Manual” and the “Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,” and other
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 118, passed 3-13-2025)
§ 151.08 ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT.
   The Addressing Coordinator shall assign or reassign to each vacant parcel,
residential, or non-residential building, structure, or facility, and each
individual occupiable area within any such building or structure, an address
number or subaddress in accordance with this subchapter and the “Addressing and
Street Naming Policies and Procedures Manual.” The Addressing Coordinator shall
assign or reassign addresses based on the address reference system established
and described in §
151.05.
(Ord. 118, passed 3-13-2025)
§ 151.09 DISPLAY OF ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Required address display format. Every owner of a property with a
house, building, or other structure shall affix to the house, building, or
other structure, and display at all times, the official address number assigned
or reassigned to such property pursuant to this subchapter at a place visible
from the street on which the property fronts. All address numbers shall be
displayed numerically in Arabic numerals, and shall not be spelled as words.
Whenever new official numbers are assigned or reassigned, they shall be
displayed pursuant to the provisions of this section by the owner within 30
days following the notification of such assignment or reassignment.
   (B)   Size and location of numbers.
      (1)   Single-family residential. The official address number affixed to
any house, building, or other structure shall not be less than four inches in
height with a minimum stroke width of one-half inch. All official address
numbers affixed to any residential structure shall be displayed within three
feet of the front entrance and shall be readable from the street. If the front
door is inset under a porch roof or overhand, required address numbers shall be
affixed to that portion of the street-facing facade that is closest to the
street.
      (2)   Multi-family residential units. Official address numbers, letters,
or other designations on individual units within multi-family residential
buildings shall not be less than four inches in height with a minimum stroke
width of one-half inch, and shall be displayed within three feet of the front
entrance of each unit and shall be readable from the street. The building
number on any multi-family building shall be at least six inches in height with
a minimum stroke width of one-half inch, and shall be placed within three feet
of the main entrance of the building. If the address numbers are not readable
from either a public or private street or from the parking lot which serves the
building, the address number shall be additionally posted on the street-facing
end of the building. In these instances, if the address number is out of
sequence with those on the street on which it is posted, both the address
number and street name must be posted to avoid confusion.
      (3)   Non-residential units. Official unit numbers, letters, or other
designations on individual non-residential units in buildings containing
multiple units shall not be less than four inches in height with a minimum
stroke width of one-half inch, and shall be displayed within three feet of the
front entrance of each unit, and shall be readable from the public or private
street. The building number on any non-residential building shall be at least
six inches in height with a minimum stroke width of one-half inch and shall be
placed within three feet of the main entrance of the building. If the address
numbers are not readable from either a public or private street or from the
parking lot which serves the building, the address number shall be additionally
posted on the street-facing end of the building.
      (4)   Historic districts. Buildings or structures located within a
locally zoned historic (H) district are exempted from the requirements of
divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), and (B)(3) above. Instead, these buildings or
structures shall display their addresses on a plaque one and one-half inches by
four inches located on the lower left corner of the building, below the name of
the building or structure.
      (5)   Structures located distant from the street on which they front.
Where a house, building, or other structure is located more than 100 feet from
the street on which such property fronts, or the topography or vegetation of
such property prevents the address numbers from being seen from the street, the
assigned address numbers shall not be less than four inches in height, comply
with the color requirements in this section, be posted to a sign or post that
is at least three and one-half feet high and four inches wide, and is located
no more than ten feet from the intersection of the street and driveway. The
placement of the assigned address number on the street curb or mailbox is
permissible, but may not be used to meet the requirements of this subchapter.
      (6)   Color of numbers. All displays of official address numbers shall be
of a contrasting color (for example, light numbers on dark surfaces, dark
numbers on light surfaces) to the color of the building or structure located on
the subject property, and such displays shall be readable when illuminated.
   (C)   Maintenance. Following the posting of the address number as required,
the owner of the property shall maintain such numbers at all times in
accordance with the standards of this subchapter.
   (D)   Applicability to existing structures. Owners of all houses, buildings,
or other structures located on improved property within the jurisdiction of the
subchapter as of its effective date shall comply with the provisions contained
in this subchapter upon its adoption.
   (E)   Non-compliance.
      (1)   If any property owner shall fail or refuse to comply with this
subchapter, the County Code Enforcement shall have the authority, upon five
days’ written notice to such owner, to initiate enforcement measures in
accordance with the provisions herein.
      (2)   If any property owner shall fail or refuse to comply with this
section, the County Planning Department shall have the authority, after giving
five days’ written notice to the owner, to remove or cause to be removed any
unofficial address number displayed on the property of such owner, and to
properly display on such property the official address number assigned thereto,
all at the expense of the owner.
(Ord. 118, passed 3-13-2025)
§ 151.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The property owner shall display the assigned address in accordance
with the requirements of this subchapter. The failure of any person, firm, or
corporation which is the owner of a house, building, or other structure to have
affixed thereto or to have otherwise displayed the official address number of
such property in accordance with the standards contained in §
151.09 shall be considered a violation of this subchapter and an abatable
nuisance. In addition to other remedies provided by law, the Planning
Department shall have the authority to pursue enforcement of this subchapter
following written notice to the property owner or occupant in control of the
property from a court of competent jurisdiction. The property owner shall have
five days from the date of written notice to correct the deficiencies listed
therein.
   (B)   If the individual who received notice does not correct such
deficiencies, the County Planning Department (for county addresses), or the
appropriate city or village department (for their addresses), shall have the
authority to secure injunctions and abatement orders to ensure compliance
through a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 118, passed 3-13-2025)
RIGHT-OF-WAY USE
§ 151.25 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The county owns, maintains, or is responsible for various rights-of-
way, including, but not limited to, roadways and easements, within the
unincorporated areas of the county. From time to time, utilities and other
persons desire to occupy, use, construct, or excavate within the county right-
of-way.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners has the statutory authority and
responsibility to make such orders concerning county property, including
rights-of-way, as it may deem appropriate, pursuant to NMSA § 4-38-13. In the
absence of specific statutory provision to the contrary, the Board of County
Commissioners represents the county and has the care of the county property and
management of the interest of the county in all cases where no other provision
is made by law.
(NMSA § 4-38-18)
   (C)   While regulated public utilities are authorized to place their pipes,
poles, wires, cables, conduits, towers, piers, stations, and other necessary
fixtures, appliances, and structures, upon, or across any of the public roads,
streets, alleys, highways, and waters in the state, such use of county property
is subject to the regulation of the Board of County Commissioners (NMSA § 62-1-
2). Additionally, non-regulated mutual domestic water associations and water
and sanitation districts also require access to county rights-of-way. The Board
of County Commissioners wishes to foster the continued expansion of utility
service throughout the unincorporated areas of the county. Where applicable,
the county shall be compensated for the reasonable costs involved in the use of
the right-of-way, for administrative expenses incurred in the processing of the
necessary permits, as well as for the required monitoring of the progress of
the work and protection of the public health, safety, and welfare. Further,
under NMSA § 62-1-3, the Board of County Commissioners is authorized to impose
reasonable charges for expenses incurred in the granting of such rights-of-way
use.
   (D)   Therefore, pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter as set forth
herein, the Board of County Commissioners will require parties requesting use
of county rights-of-way to compensate the county for all of the county’s
reasonable costs incurred directly and indirectly in permitting the use
thereof, including, but not limited to, the cost of mapping, managing, and
coordinating the use of the right-of-way by the various parties, along with the
administrative and general costs related to processing applications for use of
the right-of-way and the enforcement of the terms of this subchapter.
   (E)   Further, the Board of County Commissioners will require all users of
county rights-of-way to adequately indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the
county against all possible claims of loss or damage arising out of that use.
   (F)   All uses of county rights-of-way must be coordinated to ensure the
maintenance of public health, safety, and welfare pursuant to NMSA § 4-37-1. It
is a policy of the Board of County Commissioners to reduce the possibility of
unnecessary duplication and economic waste in the use of county rights-of-way
and to grant uses of its rights-of-way consistent with the best interest of the
county and its inhabitants. Therefore, consistent with state law, the county
may deny any application for use of county rights-of-way that the Board of
County Commissioners finds would interfere with an existing use of the rights-
of-way by a third party. In addition, consistent with state law, the Board of
County Commissioners may deny any application for use of the county rights-of-
way that the Board finds would or may duplicate the county’s own planned or
actual use, would negatively affect a county purpose or project, or may be
harmful to the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
   (G)   The Board of County Commissioners shall, by separate resolution,
establish and appoint a Utility Advisory Planning Council for the purpose of
advising and assisting the Board with the creation of a county-wide utility
plan for the orderly and coordinated growth and expansion of utilities within
the county.
   (H)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed or interpreted to affect
or to impair the jurisdiction of the State Public Utility Commission or other
statutorily-created agency having jurisdiction over public or non-public
entities, or to affect or to impair a regulated public utility’s rights and
obligations under the State Public Utility Act, NMSA §§ 62-3-1 et seq., or any
other state act.
   (I)   The Board of County Commissioners adopts this subchapter and
establishes the administrative process pertaining to use of the county rights-
of-way, and the engineering and design standards applicable to facilities
installed within the right-of-way, and the fees to be paid therefor.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTUAL AND REASONABLE EXPENSES. All expenses directly or indirectly incurred
by the County related to permitting the use of county rights-of-way by users,
including, but not limited to, the costs of mapping, managing, and coordinating
the use of the right-of-way by the users, along with the administrative and
general costs related to the processing of application for use of the right-of-
way, and the enforcement of the terms and conditions of this subchapter, and
any other costs or expenses reasonably associated with the maintenance of the
right-of-way in a manner that protects the health, safety, and welfare of the
public.
   APPLICANT. Any user required to obtain a permit pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this subchapter.
   COUNTY. Luna County, New Mexico, or the Board of County Commissioners.
   EMERGENCY. Any situation necessitating excavation, use of, or entrance onto,
the county right-of-way for the purpose of locating a problem area or to make
repairs in a facility when circumstances are such that delay in correcting the
problem or making the repair would present a substantial and real threat of
injury, would harm the health, safety, and welfare of the public, or would
likely result in serious property loss or damage.
   EXCAVATION. A hole, trench, ditch, or depression in a right-of-way resulting
from the removal or moving of the pavement, or dirt or other material, but
excluding a substructure opening.
   FACILITY. Any pipe, pipeline, tube, main, service vent, vault, manhole,
meter, regulator, valve, conduit, pole, line, cable, anchor, structure, or
object of any kind, type, manner, or character, whether listed herein or not,
which is or may be lawfully constructed, left, placed, or maintained upon,
along, above, across, under, or within the right-of-way; also referred to as an
IMPROVEMENT.
   PERMIT. Permit issued by the county pursuant to the terms and conditions of
this subchapter which allow the use of the county rights-of-way by utilities
and other persons.
   PERMITTEE. An applicant whose permit request has been approved and who holds
a valid permit.
   PERSON; USER. Any individual, estate, trust, utility, receiver, association,
subdivision of the state, cooperative, club, public or private corporation,
company, firm, partnership, joint venture, syndicate, municipality, or any
other entity.
   PUBLIC PLACE; RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW). All property owned or maintained,
permitted, or acquired by grant or prescription by the county, including, but
not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, planes, sidewalks, plazas, parks,
easements, curbs, bar ditch, and drainage ways, which constitute the county
RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY ADMINISTRATOR (RWA). The individual designated by the County
Manager to administer this subchapter to include, but not limited to, the
receipt, review, processing, approval, or denial of permit applications,
approval and denial of administrative variances, and maintenance of county
right-of-way records.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USE AGREEMENT. Agreement entered into between the user and the
county for utility use of the county rights-of-way.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USE FEE. Fee paid by users of the county rights-of-way pursuant
to the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
   SERVICE HOOK-UP. Any excavation, not exceeding the width of the affected
county right-of-way, necessary to allow a single meter hook-up for a single
property owner to tie into an existing utility line for the purpose of securing
utility service, but does not include line extensions.
   SUBSTRUCTURE. Any facility located below the surface of the county right-of-
way.
   SUBSTRUCTURE OPENING. An opening into a lawfully permitted substructure, the
top of which is required to be flush with the adjoining surface within the
county right-of-way, and which is constructed so as to permit frequent
utilization without requiring the removal of pavement, dirt, or other material,
while maintaining the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
   USE. Performance of work within and/or occupation of the county right-of-
way, including, but not limited to, the excavation of materials, boring,
maintenance, and checking of substructures and substructure openings, and/or
the use of the right-of-way to place any facility thereon or therein.
   USERS. Person or entity actually utilizing the area of the right-of-way for
the installation of facilities or other improvements, including utilities whose
primary function is the provision of certain services to the public or third
parties, which services include, but are not limited to, electrical, gas,
water, wastewater, and telecommunications services.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.27 USE PERMIT APPLICATIONS; REQUIREMENTS; FEES; ISSUANCE, DENIAL; APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person or party wishing to obtain a permit from the county
pursuant to this subchapter must submit the following information to the RWA:
      (1)   The name, telephone number, address, and place of business of the
applicant and his or her engineers and/or contractors;
      (2)   A detailed drawing and written description of the location and
dimensions of the proposed use of the county right-of-way, including a plan
view and cross-section view of the proposed use, which are sufficient to
indicate the placement of any facilities or to locate the work to be performed
(five complete sets shall be submitted for review);
      (3)   The method by which the proposed use within the right-of-way will
be accomplished, including an estimate of the amount of time required to
complete any actual work to be performed within the right-of-way, including
backfilling and removal of all obstructions, materials, and debris, and
restoration of the surface. The applicant’s authority to use the county ROW
shall be limited to the purposes and work plan specifically authorized by the
permit;
      (4)   The purpose and function of any facility to be located within the
ROW; and
      (5)   All road crossings on paved roads shall be performed by boring
rather than excavating, except where boring is not reasonably justified as
determined by the county. In situations where the applicant wishes to perform a
road crossing by excavation in lieu of boring, the applicant shall provide
written justification therefor to the RWA. Some examples of conditions where
boring may not be justified are lack of adequate room in the county ROW to
operate boring equipment, or boring on gravel or dirt roads.
   (B)   In all cases where the work to be done in the county ROW is to be done
by a utility, the utility must be the applicant.
   (C)   (1)   The applicant shall be required to provide proof of adequate
insurance in an amount satisfactory to the county indicating that the applicant
has sufficient insurance to protect both the county and the applicant for any
and all claims or damages arising out of bodily injury, including death, to any
party including the applicant, and his or her employees and agents, and the
county employees and agents, and from claims for damaged property which may
arise out of, or result from, the applicant’s use of the county ROW. At a
minimum, the policy coverage and limits shall be those set forth in NMSA § 41-
4-9. To simplify this requirement, applicants that operate in the county may
file with the RWA a copy of the utility’s master or applicable insurance policy
which provides the above delineated coverage. Such policies must be refiled
yearly. The user is obligated to provide the county with notice of cancellation
of its policy, if that event should occur.
      (2)   The applicant must agree to defend, hold harmless, and indemnify
the county and its officers, agents, and employees, against all claims, losses,
and damages to persons or property on account of, or resulting from, the
intentional or negligent conduct on the part of the permittee in the
permittee’s use of the county right-of-way, or any work, duties, or obligations
performed pursuant to the terms of this subchapter and the duly issued permit.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued until written proof of adequate insurance
has been provided by the applicant to the RWA. No permit shall be issued until
the applicant signs indemnification agreements required by the county.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the application, and, except as specifically
hereinafter set forth, the non-refundable application fee in the amount
determined annually by the County Manager, the county will review the request.
The RWA will verify the information provided in the application and will
process the application pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
subchapter. The RWA will also determine whether the planned use impairs other
existing users.
   (F)   The RWA will also review the work plan to determine whether the use of
the right-of-way can be accomplished pursuant to the engineering and
construction standards set forth in this subchapter, and as may be amended and
promulgated by the county in the future, and set forth in subsequent ordinances
or resolutions.
   (G)   Except for unavoidable delays, within 30 days of receipt of the
completed application and non-refundable application fee, the RWA will notify
the applicant, by regular mail and/or by telephonic transmission, of the
acceptance or denial of the application. If the application has been approved,
the applicant will be notified in writing of the terms and conditions of the
permit, including the right-of-way usage fee. The permit will be valid only
upon payment of all additional fees. Where the proposed project is expansive or
complex, as determined by the RWA, additional processing may be required. In
that event, the RWA will notify the applicant and will inform the applicant of
the estimated additional time needed.
   (H)   (1)   Except as otherwise specifically provided for in this
subchapter, the fees for which are hereinafter set forth, usage fees shall be
based upon the lineal feet of right-of-way to be used by the applicant. Table A
below reflects the fees for trenching and all uses of the right-of-way placed
below ground level.
 
TABLE A
Width and Depth             Fee per Lineal Foot
12” by 36” to 24” by 40.10 lineal foot
Any greater width and depth 0.15 per lineal foot
 
      (2)   The charge per lineal foot for placement of facilities in the
right-of-way aboveground level shall be a minimum fee of $150 for the first 90
lineal feet, and a fee of $1.50 per lineal foot thereafter.
      (3)   If, concurrent with the installation of a new utility line, service
connections are being made to customers from that new line, there will be no
additional fee to be paid for each hookup. The fees paid for the permit and
lineal foot usage shall include those said service connections.
   (I)   No fee shall be required for work within the county right-of-way to
perform at the request of the county for a county project, unless it is a
county utility related project where the county will be providing a utility
service to customers who will pay fees and other charges to the county.
   (J)   Fees for service hook-ups shall be $50 if no pavement cut will be
necessary and $100 if a pavement cut will be necessary to accomplish the
utility connection. Service hook-ups do not require an additional application
permit fee beyond the fees provided for in this division (J). However, a permit
must be secured.
   (K)   (1)   A maintenance/repair permit must be obtained by any utility or
person for any maintenance or repair work to be done on their lines or
facilities where excavation will be required into the county right-of-way to
perform the maintenance or repair.
      (2)   The fee for said permit shall be $100. Such maintenance/repair
excavations may be subject to the provisions, reviews, inspection, and testing
provisions of this subchapter. If the maintenance/repair excavation is to
exceed 250 feet, then the full permit fee schedule per lineal foot provided for
division (H) above shall apply in lieu of the $100. A maintenance/repair permit
shall not require any fee beyond that set forth in this division (K). However,
a permit must be secured. System rehabilitation is not considered maintenance/
repair.
   (L)   (1)   Where a utility or other person wishes to replace or exchange a
water, sewer, electric, or other utility meter, a permit from the county will
not be required if the following applies:
         (a)   The meter is aboveground, and there will be no impact on the
county right-of-way;
         (b)   The meter is underground and encapsulated in a manhold, but
there will be no further impact on the county right-of-way;
         (c)   The meter is underground, but will involve minimal ground
disturbance, as determined by the Right-of-Way (RWA) Administrator; and
         (d)   If the meter is underground and will involve substantial
trenching or ground disturbance, as determined by the RWA, a maintenance/repair
permit as provided for in division (K) above is required.
      (2)   If a permit is not required, it is still incumbent upon the utility
to meet all other applicable standards and to inform the RWA of such work
within 24 hours prior to work commencement.
   (M)   A user involved in a project which is being funded by state or federal
agencies may apply for a permit without the advance payment of fees upon a
showing that the permit is a condition of approval and/or receipt of the public
funding. In such a case, payment of the fees due the county will be deferred
until the public funds are available for the project.
   (N)   An applicant may appeal the denial of a permit to the Board of County
Commissioners pursuant to the procedures set forth in §
151.36.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.28 CONDITIONS OF USE OF COUNTY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no user may commence
any use of the county ROW until a permit for such use is first obtained from
the county. Ordinarily, permits shall be valid for 90 days. However, if a
longer period of time is necessary, the permittee may submit a written request
for additional time justifying the additional requested time.
   (B)   A permit shall be required for any use of the county ROW, including,
but not limited to, excavation within the right-of-way, boring of any
substructure opening, aerial use of the county right-of-way, or placement of
any facility within the county right-of-way.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or party to use the county right-
of-way without first securing a permit from the county and complying fully with
all the provisions of this subchapter, and any related regulations that may be
adopted by the county.
   (D)   All construction and road restoration shall be in accordance with the
county standard specifications for road construction in effect at the time of
application. The county may promulgate and adopt such further additional rules
and regulations as may be required to fully implement this subchapter. Copies
of such rules and regulations shall be available to applicants at the office of
the Road Department.
   (E)   The user shall be required to correct substandard work or work
performed with defective materials and/or workmanship, as directed by the RWA.
The user must restore the street sub-base, base, and surface to its original
condition upon completion of the work within the ROW. Upon failure of the user
to begin repairs within 24 hours after written notice by the county and to
complete the required work within a reasonable time, as determined by the
county, the county shall cause such work to be done and the cost thereof
charged to the user. In addition, the county may declare the user to be in
default of the terms of the permit, and suspend the permit.
   (F)   The user must take appropriate measures to maintain safe and adequate
passage of vehicle and pedestrian traffic as required by the county while
performing any work within the ROW.
   (G)   In the event the user causes damage to existing facilities located
within the ROW, the user must notify the RWA and the owner of the damaged
facility immediately, and take immediate steps to arrange for the repair of the
damage. The user is responsible for the cost of repairs. Further, the county
may declare the user to be in default of the terms of the permit and may
suspend the permit.
   (H)   The user is responsible for the proper installation of any diversion
or ponding devices necessary for protection of property and structures, and
shall be responsible for repair or payment of damages caused to property or
structures by the user’s failure to properly provide such devices.
   (I)   Prior to making any excavation or paving cut, the user shall
adequately barricade the area to be excavated and shall adequately provide
light devices at night in compliance with the “Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices” (“MUTCD”). Barricading and lighting shall be maintained by the
user until all work has been finished, including the replacement of paving.
   (J)   After completing excavation within the right-of-way, the user shall
install all facilities at least 36 inches below the road surface, or deeper, if
required, to meet requirements of other regulatory agencies. All parallel and
lateral depths shall be a minimum of 36 inches beneath ground surface.
   (K)   Ditches paralleling county roads that exceed 350 in length shall not
be left open for more than 72 hours, unless for good cause shown to the RWA who
will permit a longer period of time.
   (L)   All materials excavated must be piled and maintained so as not to
endanger the public health, safety, and welfare. In order to expedite the flow
of traffic and to minimize air pollution from dirt and dust, the user shall use
appropriate methods, including watering the excavation material. The user shall
remove all rubbish, excess earth, rock, and other debris resulting from
excavation work immediately upon completion of backfilling as required by this
subchapter. If the user fails to do the required work, the county may cause the
work to be performed and to charge the cost of the work to the user.
   (M)   Unless specifically exempted in writing, any person who trenches or
excavates within the right-of-way for any purpose is required to backfill the
trench or excavation as follows:
      (1)   All trenches and ditches will be backfilled and compacted.
      (2)   In all trenches and excavations, the material used in backfilling
must consist of the original material or other similar material, in a finely-
divided form free from large lumps, large stones, rocks, pieces of old
concrete, or asphalt pavement, or large or wet gummy masses, and must be placed
and compacted to the top of the trench or excavation. Compaction shall be in
conformance with specifications of AASHTO, T-180 (American Association of State
Highway and Transportation Officials) to 95% maximum density.
      (3)   Backfill and compaction inspections shall be made by the user. The
county reserves the right to perform additional inspections and/or testing at
its own cost. In the event the compacted backfill fails to meet the density
requirements of this subchapter, or otherwise fails to comply as evidenced by
settlement of the trench or excavation, the county will notify the user, in
writing, and the user will correct the defect within 72 hours. The user is
responsible for the cost of all tests. If the user fails to correct the
situation, the county may order the work performed to meet the required density
specified herein. The county may also order the replacement of all pavement
destroyed or damaged as a result of the backfill failure settlement. The costs
incurred by the county shall be paid by the user.
         (a)   Testing shall be conducted by the user on every lift up to and
per 250 lineal feet thereafter of material disturbed. Lifts shall be 12 inches
to 18 inches in depth and/or of sufficient depth to obtain required density.
         (b)   Prior to any testing of compacted backfill, the user shall
inform the county within 24 hours of the scheduled testing.
         (c)   All testing certificates shall contain the following minimum
information: date, location, percentage compaction, permit number, and other
information applicable to the task. Testing certificates shall be furnished to
the county within five working days of completion of the testing.
         (d)   Testing shall be accomplished by a certified independent testing
laboratory.
   (N)   The standard utility requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Water lines shall be installed within the right-of-way parallel to
the edge of pavement/roadway on the east or north side of the right-of-way
outside the paved/roadway area at a minimum of three feet beyond the edge of
the pavement/roadway.
      (2)   Gas lines shall be installed within the right-of-way parallel to
the edge of pavement/roadway on the west or south side of the right-of-way
outside the paved/roadway area at a minimum of three feet beyond the edge of
pavement/roadway.
      (3)   Sewer lines shall be located within easements on the west or south
side of the right-of-way on newly platted subdivisions or along the centerline
of the right-of-way on existing roadways if an easement does not exist.
      (4)   Water lines and gas lines shall, in all cases, be separated from
sewer lines by a minimum of ten feet and all other underground lines (including
other existing water and gas lines by a minimum of five feet).
      (5)   Each sewer, water, and gas line shall, in all cases, be placed in
its own separate trench.
      (6)   The utility separations, as specified above, shall also cover back
lot easements or other easements as required. Easements shall be wide enough to
allow for utility separations as specified above with all utilities being at
least five feet inside the edge of the easement.
      (7)   Where used, fire hydrants shall be located no closer than 18 inches
from the right-of-way boundary within the right-of-way and as far as possible
from the edge of pavement/roadway.
      (8)   Where used, fire hydrants located on roadways where no curb and
gutter exist shall be protected by four-inch metal pipe bollards placed to
allow full function of the hydrant.
      (9)   All valves and manholes shall have a concrete collar placed at
finish grade if located within a paved surface and no less than 12 inches below
the surface if located in an area where no paving exists.
      (10)   Water, sewer, and gas mains shall be marked with tracing/warning
tape installed above the pipe, 15 inches below the top of the trench in case of
gas and water, and 12 inches below the top of the trench in the case of sewer.
      (11)   The tracing tape to be buried over all lines throughout their
entire lengths shall have the following specifications:
         (a)   Tape shall be three inches wide and shall consist of one layer
of metalized foil laminated between two layers of inert plastic film;
         (b)   Laminated bonding that can be separated by hand is not
acceptable;
         (c)   Tape shall be a minimum of five mils thick with a minimum
tensile strength of 84 pounds per three-inch wide strip;
         (d)   Tape shall be imprinted with a continuous warning message
repeated a minimum of every 30 inches as follows:
 
Blue colored tape   “Caution water line buried below”
Green colored tape  “Caution sewer line buried below”
Yellow colored tape “Caution gas line buried below”
 
         (e)   Tape shall be inductively locatable and conductively traceable
using standard pipe and cable locating device for a minimum of eight years
after direct burial; and
         (f)   Test results showing a minimum of eight years life and full
compliance of these specifications and a sample of the tape may be required to
be furnished to the RWA.
      (12)   Replacement of pavement, when necessary, shall follow the backfill
by not more than three days or not more than 1,000 lineal feet;
      (13)   Gas lines shall, at all times, be separated from any other
parallel underground line by a minimum of ten feet, and shall, in all cases, be
placed in their own separate trench. When crossing other underground lines,
there shall be a minimum clearance of 18 inches between the gas line and the
line being crossed. The minimum specified gas line depth (cover) shall, in all
cases, be maintained;
      (14)   Thrust, anchorage, support, and encasement:
         (a)   At points where the vertical or horizontal hydraulic thrust
exceeds the resisting capacity of a single pipe joint and at cast-iron fitting
and valves, place concrete anchor blocks, thrust blocks, concrete supports, or
concrete encasement in a manner that will counteract the thrust or transfer the
thrust from the pipe or fitting to ground which will not yield;
         (b)   Place concrete in a manner that will leave rubber ring joints
free to permit minor deflection, except where extended encasement is called
for. Before placing concrete encasement, PVC pipe shall be wrapped with a layer
of building felt or with polyethylene wrap to prevent bond and the possible
transmission of cracks from the encasement to the pipe;
         (c)   When the ground is soft and cannot be compacted to resist the
thrust from the pipe or fitting to unyielding ground, an increase in the amount
of concrete, or the bearing area, shall be made. Do not weaken the supporting
soil by permitting water in the trench; and
         (d)   Use concrete of minimum of 3,000 psi compressive strength design
for anchor and thrust blocks and encasement, and where reinforcement is shown,
use deformed billet steel, conforming to ASTM, A 615, Grade 40.
      (15)   (a)   The physical components of all proposed installations shall
conform to the regulations of the various regulatory bodies and/or industry
codes. All vertical and lateral clearances shall conform to the National
Electrical Safety Code and other pertinent codes; and
         (b)   The protection of the public and the handling of traffic during
the construction of the facility are the responsibility of the permit
applicant. At least one lane must be kept open to traffic at all times.
Barricades, flaggers, signs, and flares shall be provided as necessary.
            1.   Aerial facilities, parallel. The proposed installation of
aerial facilities parallel to a county roadway shall be located one foot within
right-of-way line, wherever practical. Minor variations will be processed on an
individual basis. In no case shall parallel facilities be permitted within
access control lines at any access control lines at any controlled access
location.
            2.   Aerial facilities, crossing. The proposed installation of
aerial utility facilities crossing a county roadway should cross the roadway at
an angle of 90 degrees, wherever practical. Poles, anchors, and other
appurtenances shall be located at, near, or outside upon the foreslopes,
shoulders, or roadway surface, and all vertical clearances shall conform to the
relevant codes. Minor variations will be processed on an individual basis. In
no case shall anchors, poles, or other surface components or aerial crossings
be permitted within access control lines at any controlled access location.
            3.   Buried facilities, parallel. The proposed installation of
buried utility facilities parallel to a county roadway should be located two
feet within the right-of-way line, wherever practical. Minor variations will be
processed on an individual basis. In no case shall parallel facilities be
permitted within access control lines at any controlled access location. All
buried facilities shall be installed at a depth of 36 inches or more from the
surface to the top of the facility unless otherwise requested by the county.
All trenches and ditches will be backfilled and compacted by the permit
applicant. All excavations outside the foreslopes shall be compacted to a
density equal to the surrounding undisturbed soil. Any excavation within the
toe of the foreslope shall be compacted to 95% of maximum dry density, as
determined by the standard compaction test, AASHO Method T-99, or equivalent.
Parallel ditches in excess of 350 feet in length shall not remain open over 24
hours. Wherever possible, any excavation on or near traveled ways should not
remain open overnight.
            4.   Buried facilities, crossing.
               a.   The proposed installation of buried facilities crossing a
county roadway should cross the roadway at an angle of 90 degrees, wherever
practical. Surface components of a proposed buried crossing shall be within 21
feet of the right-of-way line. All buried facility crossings shall be installed
at a depth of 36 inches or more from the low point of the roadway to the top of
the facility. Minor variations will be processed on an individual basis. In no
case shall surface components of buried crossings be permitted within the
access control lines at any controlled access locations. Wherever possible,
installation of buried facilities crossing a county roadway shall be performed
by boring or jacking under the roadway. Installation by open cut on the roadway
will be permitted only where boring or jacking is not feasible. The permit
applicant shall be responsible for surface restoration on open cut
installations in a manner satisfactory to the Road Superintendent, or his or
her designate.
               b.   All proposed buried carrier pipes crossing a county roadway
shall be constructed of steel, cast iron, or reinforced concrete pipe and/or
shall be encased in metal pipe. Each question of encasement shall be considered
on an individual basis. For all controlled access locations, the encasement
shall extend completely across the access control lines. For other locations,
the encasement shall extend from toe of the slope to toe of the slope.
               c.   The permit applicant shall be responsible for the backfill
and compaction of all excavations, and shall be responsible for the safety of
the traveling public. All excavations outside the roadway foreslopes shall be
compacted to a destiny equal to the surrounding undisturbed soil. All
excavations within the toe of the foreslope shall be compacted to 95% of
maximum dry density, as determined by a standard compaction test, AASHO Method
T-99, or equivalent.
               d.   Where the roadway surface is disturbed or damaged in any
way and the party making the installation is not equipped to repair or maintain
the damage, the County Road Department shall repair the damage at a unit cost
of $5 per square yard. The minimum charge for these repairs shall be $20 for
each location. This billing will be made by the Department, based on
measurements derived by Road Department personnel. If the user elects to repair
such roadway surface damage, it will be performed to the express approval of
the County Road Department Superintendent.
   (O)   Traffic access and safety measures shall include the following.
      (1)   The user shall conduct and schedule its work at all times so that a
minimum of obstruction to traffic and other inconveniences to the public
occurs. The testing, purging, transfer of service, chlorination of lines,
backfill of each section of line, or other related actions shall follow the
installation within reasonable time.
      (2)   Where any pipeline routes cross secondary streets, the excavation
shall be backfilled to provide a roadway prior to the end of the work day.
Construction by open excavation across major roadways and roads shall be
carried and completed to approximately the roadway centerline and the trench
backfilled prior to excavation across the remaining roadway section so that
traffic will not be interrupted.
      (3)   The user shall provide and set barricades and flashing lights along
all open excavation and at points where the construction operation creates
hazards to the public. Spacing of barricades and lights shall be adequate to
ensure the public has/sees a warning of the hazard, and shall be in compliance
with the directions of the “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” and all
other county, state, and federal regulations. Flares and/or lights shall be
kept burning from sunset to sunup. Barricades shall be painted and fitted with
reflective paint and reflectors, respectively, to increase visibility, in
compliance with requirements of the MUTCD.
      (4)   Wire utilities shall be placed no farther than five feet from the
edge of the right-of-way on the east and/or north side of the centerline of the
right-of-way.
      (5)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to properly conduct
a construction survey and to determine the limits of the county ROW prior to
any excavation.
   (P)   The county may make any and all inspections and random tests as it
deems necessary to enforce the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
Acceptance or approval of ditching, excavation, backfilling, and restoration of
the surface by the county does not prevent the county from asserting claims
against the user for incomplete or defective workmanship or materials. The
presence or absence of a representative of the county during the performance of
the work does not relieve the user of its responsibilities hereunder.
   (Q)   The user shall have available the original or a photocopy of the
permit on-site at all times during construction.
   (R)   User is required to notify the RWA of the commencement date of
construction at least 24 hours prior to commencement. In addition, the user is
required to notify the Administrator within 24 hours of completion of
construction to arrange for a final county inspection. Within 30 days of
completion of construction, the user shall furnish the county a complete set of
vellum as-built drawings, with the permit number on the drawings.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.29 RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   In the event changes are made in the county ROW that necessitate relocation
of any existing facility, the affected user, upon receipt of written notice
from the county, shall contact the RWA to coordinate relocation of its
facilities. Relocation of the facilities shall be completed by the user within
a reasonable time, usually 60 days. The expense of the relocation shall be
borne by the requesting party, unless the relocation is necessary as the result
of a county use of the ROW area; in that case, the user shall pay all of the
relocation costs.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.30 ALTERNATIVE TO PERMIT PROCESS; RIGHT-OF-WAY USE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   As an alternative to complying with all of the permit procedures
set forth herein, a user may enter into an agreement with the Board of County
Commissioners for the purpose of coordinating the user’s use of the county
right-of-way in various locations. This agreement would eliminate the
requirement for payment of ROW fees for each distinct and separate pipe, or
location, of use of the county right-of-way.
      (2)   However, the user shall comply with all other requirements for use
of the county right-of-way set forth herein, including making application for a
permit.
   (B)   Except where there is a need for specificity based on the type of
facility involved, the terms and conditions of the ROW agreement, including
fees therefor, and standards will be common for all. The terms of a right-of-
way agreement shall not exceed 25 years.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.31 EMERGENCY USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In the event of any emergency which threatens the health, safety, or welfare
of the public, use of the county ROW may be commenced without first obtaining
the permit, provided that the user making the emergency use files an
application for a permit, as required by this subchapter, the date of
commencement of the emergency use.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.32 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Administrative. The County RWA, upon written request, shall have the
authority to grant administrative variances from the technical standards
provided for in this subchapter upon a demonstrated showing that a strict
application of the established technical standards are impractical or not
feasible because of:
      (1)   Insufficient room within the county right-of-way to meet standards;
      (2)   Adherence to the standards would be incompatible with the nature or
placement of facilities presently existing in the county right-of-way to be
used; or
      (3)   Adherence to standards is not reasonably justified based on other
factors to include, but not limited to, extent of proposed project, physical
conditions of the county ROW, or physical hardship; and that the variation in
standards proposed by the user will not result in an inferior work project.
   (B)   Appeals from variance denials. The standards for appeals from variance
denials shall be pursuant to §
151.36.
   (C)   Required fees. There will be no waiver of the required fees.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.33 UNAUTHORIZED USE; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided for in §
151.99(B), if a user commences use of a county ROW or work within the right-of-
way for which a permit would be required, the user shall be obligated to pay
the treble the amount of application and lineal fee(s) assessed under this
subchapter.
      (2)   The payment of treble fees shall not relieve any such user from
complying with all of the requirements of this subchapter, including the filing
of an application for use of the ROW and county review for approval or denial.
   (B)   In the alternative, the county, in its sole discretion, may require
the unauthorized user to remove the facilities unlawfully placed in the right-
of-way.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.34 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The county reserves the right to suspend a permit for non-compliance
by the user with the technical standards of this subchapter or the terms of the
permit. Immediate suspension of the permit may occur in circumstances where the
county determines that a dangerous condition has been created by the user’s
non-compliance with the terms of this subchapter or the permit, which condition
would threaten the health, safety, or welfare of the public.
   (B)   In situations where the user’s non-compliance with the terms of this
subchapter or the permit does not create an immediate threat to the health,
safety, or welfare of the public, the county will notify the user, in writing,
of the non-compliance, and will allow the user five days to comply. In the
event the user fails to comply and fails to cease work, the county may seek
injunctive relief to prevent the continued unauthorized use of its right-of-
way.
   (C)   A permit, once suspended, may be reinstated by the county upon showing
of compliance by the user, along with payment of a reinstatement fee in the
amount of $200.
   (D)   The user may appeal suspensions of permits to the Board of County
Commissioners, which appeal will be considered at a public hearing of the Board
pursuant to the procedures set forth in §
151.36.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.35 TIME EXTENSIONS FOR PERMIT.
   Upon written application to the RWA, and for good cause shown, or upon the
Administrator’s own initiative, the user may be granted an extension of time,
in writing, for which the permit will be valid in order to allow the user more
time to complete the permitted project.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.36 APPEALS.
   An applicant or user, as the case may be, shall have the right to appeal an
adverse decision of the RWA on any matter. All such appeals shall be made in
writing to the County Manager, or his or her designee, no later than ten days
after receipt of written notice to the applicant, user, or other person of an
adverse decision, and must be accompanied by a non-refundable appeal fee of
$50. Appeals shall be heard at a public meeting of the Board of County
Commissioners within 45 days of filing of a written appeal and shall be
informal in nature. A final decision of the Board of County Commissioners shall
be made in writing within ten days of the hearing.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.37 AGRICULTURAL, INDIVIDUAL USE EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The payment of fees for agricultural uses of the county right-of-way
shall be waived. However, these agricultural uses of the county right-of-way
shall comply with all the terms and provisions of this subchapter, including,
but not limited to, compliance with permit application process and technical
standards.
   (B)   Uses of the county right-of-way by individuals for such purposes as
driveways, curb cuts, sidewalks, and other similar non-commercial improvements,
are exempt from all of the requirements of this subchapter. However, such uses
are not exempted from all other relevant county ordinances and resolutions.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.38 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   (A)   The provision of this subchapter shall not apply to the present use of
the county right-of-way by a utility or other person where such use was
lawfully in place prior to the effective date of this subchapter.
   (B)   Prior use will be governed by the terms and conditions of any prior
right-of-way or franchise agreement executed by the parties. However, any
expansion or modification of that prior use shall be governed by the terms and
conditions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates §§
151.01 through
151.10, or any provisions thereof, three or more times shall be guilty of a
violation and may be fined not more than $300.
      (2)   In addition to, or in lieu of, criminal penalties, any person,
firm, or corporation violating any provisions of §§
151.01 through
151.10 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for a first violation and
$200 for a second violation, which can be recovered by the county in a civil
action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within
a prescribed period of time after being cited for violation of §§
151.01 through
151.10. No civil penalty shall be assessed until the person alleged to be in
violation has been notified of the violation by Code Enforcement. Failure to
correct the violation within five days of the date of service of the notice, or
by the end of the period of any extension, may result in the assessment of a
civil penalty or other enforcement action. For good cause determined by the
Planning Department, the correction period may be extended. Each day of
continuing violation shall constitute a separate violation.
      (3)   (a)   If payment of penalties is not received within five days
after the written demand, the Planning Department may refer the matter to the
county’s Attorney, who is authorized to institute a civil action in the name of
the county in a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (b)   The county’s Attorney may secure, on behalf of the county, in
addition to other remedies provided by law, injunctions, mandamus, abatement,
or any other appropriate relief to prevent, enjoin, abate, or address such
unlawful action.
   (C)   Pursuant to NMSA § 4-37-3, a violation of §§
151.25 through
151.38, and Appendices A, B, and C, is punishable by a fine of not more than
$300 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, per violation. In
addition, the county may pursue other legal and equitable remedies allowed by
law, including injunctive relief, in cases of unauthorized use of the county
right-of-way by any user. In the alternative, where applicable, the county may
resort to its enforcement authority under §§
151.33 or
151.35. All costs of litigation incurred by the county to enforce §§
151.25 through
151.38, and Appendices A, B, and C, shall be paid by the user violating §§
151.25 through
151.38, and Appendices A, B, and C.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000; Ord. 118, passed 3-13-2025)
APPENDIX A: INSTRUCTION FOR RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMITS
PROCEDURE
   1.   Any installation of facilities on the county ROW, or revision of
existing facilities thereon, will require prior approval of a utility permit.
No construction will be performed on county rights-of-way before the utility
has received an executed permit from the Department.
   2.   All utility permit applications shall consist of two executed copies of
the permit form, signed as an individual owner or by authorized officers of
companies or municipalities.
   3.   All utility permit applications shall be submitted to the Luna County
Road Superintendent in charge of the area of the proposed installation:
   Luna County Road Department
   ______________, Road Superintendent
   P.O. Drawer 551
   Deming, NM 88301
   4.   Each copy of any permit application shall be accompanied by a sketch,
preferably eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in size, showing complete
proposed installation details. This sketch shall show highway number, highway
stationing, all right-of-way and access control lines, any other pertinent data
required to indicate exact physical location of the proposed installation. For
proposed aerial installations, the sketch shall show complete dimensions of the
proposed facility including vertical clearances above roadways, all poles,
anchors, and other appurtenances shall be referenced to the right-of-way or the
project centerline. For proposed subsurface installations, the sketch shall
include a profile clearly indicating depth of cover, method, and length of
encasement, and all physical dimensions.
   5.   The Applicant shall notify the Road Superintendent, in writing, upon
completion of the installation. This notification and all other correspondence
shall state the permit number assigned by the county. All installations are
subject to inspection by designated county personnel.
POLICY
   1.   General
   The physical components of all proposed installations shall conform to the
regulations of the various regulatory bodies and/or industry codes. All
vertical and lateral clearances shall conform to the National Electrical Safety
Code and other pertinent codes.
   The protection of the public and the handling of traffic during the
construction of the facility are the responsibility of the permit applicant. At
least one lane must be kept open to traffic at all times. Barricades, flaggers,
signs, and flares shall be provided as necessary.
   2.   Aerial Facilities, Parallel
   The proposed installation of aerial facilities parallel to a county roadway
shall be located one foot within the right-of-way line, wherever practical.
Minor variations will be processed on an individual basis. In no case shall
parallel facilities be permitted within access control lines at any controlled
access control lines at any controlled access location.
   3.   Aerial Facilities, Crossing
   The proposed installation of aerial utility facilities crossing a county
roadway should cross the roadway at an angle of 90 degrees, wherever practical.
Poles, anchors, and other appurtenances shall be located at, near, or outside
upon the foreslopes, shoulders, or roadway surface, and all vertical clearances
shall conform to the relevant codes. Minor variations will be processed on an
individual basis. In no case shall anchors, poles, or other surface components
or aerial crossings be permitted within access control lines at any controlled
access location.
   4.   Buried Facilities, Parallel
   The proposed installation of buried utility facilities parallel to a county
roadway should be located two feet within the right-of-way line, wherever
practical. Minor variations will be processed on an individual basis. In no
case shall parallel facilities be permitted within access control lines at any
controlled access location. All buried facilities shall be installed at a depth
of 36 inches or more from the surface to the top of the facility unless
otherwise requested by the county. All trenches and ditches will be backfilled
and compacted by the permit applicant. All excavations outside the foreslopes
shall be compacted to a density equal to the surrounding undisturbed soil. Any
excavation within the toe of the foreslope shall be compacted to 95% of maximum
dry density, as determined by the Standard Compaction Test, AASHO Method T-99,
or equivalent. Parallel ditches in excess of 350 feet in length shall not
remain open over 24 hours. Wherever possible, any excavation on or near the
traveled way should not remain open overnight.
   5.   Buried Facilities, Crossing
   The proposed installation of buried facilities crossing a county roadway
should cross the roadway at an angle of 90 degrees, wherever practical. Surface
components of a proposed buried crossing shall be within 21 feet of the right-
of-way line. All buried facility crossings shall be installed at a depth of 36
inches or more from the low point of the roadway to the top of the facility.
Minor variations will be processed on an individual basis. In no case shall
surface components of buried crossings be permitted within the access control
lines at any controlled access locations.
   Wherever possible, installation of buried facilities crossing a county
roadway shall be performed by boring or jacking under the roadway. Installation
by open cut on the roadway will be permitted only where boring or jacking is
not feasible. The permit applicant shall be responsible for surface restoration
on open cut installations in a manner satisfactory to the Road Superintendent,
or his or her designee.
   All proposed buried carrier pipes crossing a county roadway shall be
constructed of steel, cast iron, or reinforced concrete pipe and/or shall be
encased in metal pipe. Each question of encasement shall be considered on an
individual basis. For all controlled access locations, the encasement shall
extend completely across the access control lines. For other locations, the
encasement shall extend from toe of slope to toe of slope.
   The permit applicant shall be responsible for the backfill and compaction of
all excavations, and shall be responsible for the safety of the traveling
public. All excavations outside the roadway foreslopes shall be compacted to a
destiny equal to the surrounding undisturbed soil. All excavations within the
toe of the foreslope shall be compacted to 95% of maximum dry density, as
determined by a Standard Compaction Test, AASHO Method T-99, or equivalent.
   Where the roadway surface is disturbed or damaged in any way and the party
making the installation is not equipped to repair or maintain this damage, the
County Road Department shall repair the damage at a unit cost of $5 per square
yard. The minimum charge for these repairs shall be $20 for each location. This
billing will be made by the Department, based on measurements derived by Road
Department personnel. If the user elects to repair such roadway surface damage,
it will be performed to the express approval of the County Road Department
Superintendent.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
APPENDIX B: APPLICATION FOR PERMITS
   R/W # ______________________
   JOB # ______________________
   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO THE USE OF THE COUNTY RIGHT-OF-WAY BY UTILITIES
AND OTHER PERSONS
TO:   Luna County Road Department   Permit No. ____________
2500 J Street SE
P.O. Drawer 551   ___ New Installation
Deming, NM 88031   ___ Renewal Permit
   ___ Relocation
Approximate start date: ____________________   ___ Remain in Place
1.   The undersigned
________________________________________________________________
Address:
_______________________________________________________________________
herein makes application to use highway rights-of-way to install:
Size and type of facility:
__________________________________________________________
in the following location: N.M. Project No.
__________________________________________
S.R. No. __________________, Road Station ______________ to Road Station
____________
_____________ County, Section ________, Twsp. ___________ Range
___________________
2.   For the purpose of this application, “within” shall be construed as
meaning “on, over, under, across, or along.”
   a.   “Engineer” shall be construed as meaning the Road Superintendent of
Luna County Road Department, or his or her representative.
   b.   “Applicant” shall be construed as meaning the individual, firm,
corporation, association, governmental, subdivision, or other organization
making application, or the successors of any of the above.
   c.   “Facility” shall be construed as meaning, but not limited to, publicly,
privately, cooperatively, municipally, or governmentally owned facility for any
pipe, pipeline, tube, main, service vent, vault, manhole, meter, regulator,
valve, conduit, pole, line, cable, anchor, structure, or object of any kind,
type, manner, or character, whether listed herein or not, which is or may be
lawfully constructed, left, placed, or maintained upon, along, above, across,
under, or within the right-of-way; also referred to as an improvement.
   d.   If application is for a parallel installation, justification as to why
a private right-of-way may not be utilized must be furnished.
3.   Applicant proposes to relocate, install to leave facility
______________________ feet within the____________________________________
right-of-way line. The proposed installation shall be: Crossing _____________
or Parallel _______________
Subsurface ______________ or Overhead _______________
Boring ______, Pushing _____, Trenching ______, or Pavement Cut ______________
   a.   If the applicant requests installation by pavement cut, complete
justification therefor shall be submitted by attachment.
   b.   Where application for pavement cut is justified, the application may be
held in abeyance pending receipt of cash bond in an amount to be fixed by the
Engineer.
4.   Upon receipt of the application and the non-refundable application fee in
the amount of $ ____, the county will review the request. The application will
be reviewed to determine if it is consistent with the terms and conditions and
will not impact upon or impair other permitted uses or planned projects and is
not detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare to the public.
5.   There is attached hereto a to-scale drawing showing the location of
existing and/or proposed installations referenced to roadway and rights-of-way,
right-of-way lines, any access control lines, distance of proposed installation
above or below grade, highway stationing, identification of materials to be
used, and any other pertinent data. If application is for parallel
installation, nature of adjacent land use shall be shown. Proposed installation
on or in bridges or other structures or for the installation of any structures,
will require detailed structural drawings.
6.   The Applicant desires this permit to be in affect for 25 years. Permit
will not be issued for a period of longer than 25 years, must be renewed upon
expiration, and the burden of timely renewal is on the Applicant. The Applicant
shall formally notify the Engineer of actual commencement and completion of
construction of the installation. The Applicant shall also formally notify the
Engineer of removal or abandonment of the facility, or relinquishment of the
permit.
7.   The signing of the application by the Engineer and returning it to the
Applicant shall validate this application as a permit. The granting of this
permit shall not be construed as granting any easement or property right.
8.   Servicing of facilities will not be permitted within the access control
lines on any controlled access project. Should an emergency occur, the
Applicant shall notify the Engineer and shall provide such flaggers, flashers,
warning, or other safety devices as required by the Engineer. All routine
maintenance shall be performed from outside any access control lines.
9.   The relocation or installation of facilities within public rights-of-way
shall be in strict conformance with all provisions of this application and
related drawings; and no departure therefrom may be made without the written
consent of the Engineer and is authorized by the ordinance. All facilities
shall be so placed that they will not interfere with nor endanger any roadway
features nor other existing facilities. All construction of facilities shall be
subject to the inspection and approval of the Engineer. All such work shall be
performed so that danger, inconvenience, and delay to the traveling public will
be held to a minimum. Traffic control during the installation is the
responsibility of the Applicant and must be approved by the Engineer.
10.   The Applicant shall restore the public right-of-way, and all bridges or
other structures thereon or adjacent thereto which have been altered or
affected by facility installation performed hereunder, in accordance with sound
construction practices and County Ordinance No. _____ , and shall cause the
work to be done in a workmanlike manner. If any damage is caused to the highway
right-of-way or to any bridge, structure, or improvement thereon or adjacent
thereto by reason of the installation, maintenance, alteration, or removal of
such facilities or other appurtenances, the Applicant will reimburse the county
the full amount thereof promptly upon demand by the county. All such facilities
located within the right-of-way shall, at all times, be kept in such repair so
as not to damage the highway, inconvenience or endanger the traveling public,
and shall be kept free from advertisement, posters, and the like.
11.   The Applicant will at all times indemnify and save harmless the county
from any and all claims of every kind of character caused by or incident to the
installation, alteration, removal, or condition of these facilities in the
right-of-way, and will promptly reimburse the county for any and all expenses
incurred by the county in defendants any such claim.
12.   Each copy of the application must be signed by the Applicant as an
individual owner or by any official designated to execute such documents.
This document is hereby subject to all provisions herein and to the following
special provisions, changes, or amendments:
Applicant: _______________________________
By: _____________________________________
Title: ____________________________________
Approval of this permit is hereby given this day ________ day of
__________________, 20____
   LUNA COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT
   By ________________________________
   TO ALL RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT APPLICANTS
   1.   All work performed on Luna County Road Department rights-of-way is
required to be performed in accordance to the “Manual on United Traffic Control
Devises (MUTCD).”
   2.   Many of the users working under permits from the Right-of-Way
Administrator (RWA) are properly signing and controlling traffic at or near the
area affected by the ongoing operations.
   3.   In some instances, we are observing inappropriate usage of traffic
control devices. A user’s own policy does not supersede the MUTCD when work is
on the Luna County Road ROW. All ongoing work must be in accordance with the
MUTCD. Failure to comply shall be cause for suspension of work or cancellation
of permit should individual conditions warrant.
   4.   Beginning on _____________________, ________, all applications for
permits to perform work on the Luna County ROW are to include the following
information:
      A.   Proposed Traffic Control Plan;
      B.   Responsible person for contact;
      C.   Anticipated duration of work; and
      D.   Designate any work that is to necessitate night time implementation
of traffic control devices.
   5.   Signs, such as “Flagman Ahead” or flagperson symbol, are often in place
during the hours of darkness. Motorists are becoming complacent to all traffic
signing as a result of such practices. All traffic control devices are to be
placed prior to the beginning of any work within the ROW, and are to be removed
when the placement is no longer necessary.
   6.   For utility work, road construction and/or road work legends are
inappropriate for utility work. “Utility Work Ahead” or “Utility Work ____ ft.”
(or one-half, one mile) as approved are suggested wordings for advance and
initial warning device legends.
   7.   Interpretation of the MUTCD as related to work within the Luna County
ROW shall be made by the Luna County Road Superintendent.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
APPENDIX C: MINIMUM ACCEPTABLE TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN
   The following is the minimum acceptable traffic control plans that will work
within the Luna County Road Department right-of-way:
   1.   Channelization devices are required any time normal use of the right-
of-way is affected.
   2.   No open trenches or pits overnight.
   3.   No equipment or materials to be stored within 36 feet of the shoulder
(solid white stripe).
   4.   Utility construction signs to be located at one-half mile, 1,500 feet,
and 1,000 feet from construction zone.
   5.   End of construction signs to be located at 500 feet from the
construction zone.
   6.   Work zone to be only the length of work that can be reasonably expected
to be accomplished in one day.
   7.   “Shoulder Work - 500 feet” with advisory “right” or “left” plate
required for all work within 36 feet of the shoulder.
   8.   Channelization devices are required for all work within 36 feet of the
right-of-way.
   9.   Minimum cone height of 28 inches.
   10.   Sign supports are to be of type approved by the Luna County Road
Department.
   11.   All traffic control devices to be in accordance to the “Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices” and current Luna County Road Department
standards.
   12.   Access must be maintained at all times to adjacent property owners.
   13.   All work within city limits are to be in accordance to the city’s
requirements.
   14.   No work of any kind other than placement of traffic control devices is
to begin prior to the proper placement of the appropriate traffic control
devices.
   Please incorporate these requirements into your traffic control plans and
submit them to the Luna County Road Department Office for acceptance. This
traffic control plan is to be a sketch or drawing that can be easily understood
and enforced by the utility owner’s representative.
(Ord. 42, passed 6-29-2000)
CHAPTER 152: MANUFACTURED, MOBILE HOMES; RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Manufactured Home (Single-Wide, Multi-Section)
   
152.01   Short title
   
152.02   Purpose, jurisdiction, interpretation, and conflict
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Adoption of codes
   
152.05   Fee schedule
   
152.06   On-site utility, development requirements
   
152.07   Flood hazard installation requirements
   
152.08   Age, location of manufactured homes
   
152.09   Transportation, installation permit required
   
152.10   Transporting or moving
   
152.11   Pre-owned units
   
152.12   Exemptions
   
152.13   Legal non-conforming
   
152.14   Site requirements
   
152.15   Home anchors
   
152.16   Number per site
   
152.17   Home skirting
   
152.18   Certificate of compliance
   
152.19   Occupancy compliance
   
152.20   Recreational vehicles general
   
152.21   Code Compliance Officer
   
152.22   Inspectors
   
152.23   Notice of violation
   
152.24   Prohibition
   
152.25   Citation uniform non-traffic
Movement Certificate; Collection of Taxes
   
152.40   Purpose
   
152.41   Definitions
   
152.42   Movement of home through county without tax release, movement
certificate prohibited
   
152.43   Movement certificate
   
152.44   Enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
MANUFACTURED HOME (SINGLE-WIDE, MULTI-SECTION)
§ 152.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Manufactured Home Ordinance,” and
shall be referred to herein as “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE, JURISDICTION, INTERPRETATION, AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the general
welfare of the people of the county through the adoption of minimum standards
to protect the essential conditions of health and safety for the purchasers and
users of manufactured homes, and the locating and use of recreational vehicles
(RVs).
   (B)   Jurisdiction. This subchapter shall provide for the regulation of all
manufactured homes and recreational vehicles, within the county, but not within
the boundaries of municipalities.
   (C)   Interpretation and conflict. The regulations provided herein are held
to be the minimum standards necessary to carry out the purposes of this
subchapter. This subchapter is not intended to interfere with or abrogate or
annul any other valid ordinance or statute. In the event the provisions of this
subchapter conflict with other county rules, regulations, or ordinances
pertaining to the subject matter herein, the provisions of this subchapter
shall prevail.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Whereverthe terms COUNTY PLANNING DIRECTOR, COUNTY PLANNING DIRECTOR,
LUNA COUNTY PLANNER, or COUNTY PLANNER appear in this subchapter, they shall be
read and understood as including any person or position authorized by the
County Manager or the Board of County Commissioners to administer or otherwise
carry out the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any word or term not defined in this subchapter shall have the meaning
ascribed to it in the County Subdivision Ordinance or the County Zoning
Ordinance or the Deming/County Extra-Territorial Zoning regulations, or they
shall have their ordinary accepted meaning within the context with which they
are used.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCEPTABLE.
         (a)   Accepted by the Luna County Building Official, the Luna County
Code Compliance Officer, the Planning Director, or New Mexico State Building
Official, with respect to matters set out in this subchapter.
         (b)   Accepted by the Luna County Fire Marshal, or other authority
designated by the County Manager with respect to matters under the NFPA Fire
Protection Code.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The official, inspector, or other designated authority
charged with the administration and enforcement of any code or the building
official’s duly authorized representative.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certificate issued to the property owner by
the County Code Compliance Officer or other designated county official, or a
State Building Official evidencing the fact that the requirements of this
subchapter as set forth in this subchapter have been met.
      CODE. A standard that is an extensive compilation of provisions covering
broad subject matter or that is suitable for adoption into law, any adopted
uniform code pertaining to construction activities.
      CODE COMPLIANCE OFFICER. The person designated by the county to enforce
various county codes or ordinances.
      COUNTY. Luna County, New Mexico.
      COUNTY COMMISSION. The Board of County Commissioners (BOCC) of the
county.
      DRY CAMPING. The temporary occupancy of a self-contained RV that is not
connected to any external utilities, including water, sewer, or electrical
systems. DRY CAMPING may only occur on an approved site, for a limited duration
as specified in this subchapter, and must comply with all applicable health,
sanitation, and safety requirements. No permanent residency or long-term
occupancy is permitted under a dry camping permit.
      INSPECTOR. The County Building Inspector or the Code Compliance Officer
or a person duly delegated or instructed by the County Building Inspector or
the Code Compliance Officer to provide a written report with respect to any
matter set out in this subchapter.
      LCBO. The County Building Official; see also Inspector and Building
Official.
      MAINTAINED. To carry out any repairs, reconstruction, refinishing, or
replacement of any part or parts of a building or structure or property.
MAINTAINED shall also mean the grooming of yards.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A movable or portable housing structure over 32 feet
in length or over eight feet in width constructed to be towed on its own
chassis and designed to be installed with or without a permanent foundation for
human occupancy as a residence and which may include one or more components
that can be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently expanded for
additional capacity or maybe two or more units separately towable but designed
to be joined into one integral unit, as well as a single unit. MANUFACTURED
HOME does not include recreational vehicles or modular or premanufactured homes
built to IBC standards, designed to be permanently affixed to real property.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. Includes any movable or portable housing structure
over twelve feet in width and forty feet’ in length, which is used for non-
residential purposes.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable housing structure larger than 40 feet
in body length, eight feet in width or 11 feet in overall height, designed for
and occupied by no more than one family for living and sleeping purposes that
is not constructed to the standards of the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development, the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., and the Housing
and Urban Development Zone Code 2 or the International Building Code, as
amended to the date of the unit’s construction or built to the standards of any
municipal building code.
      OCCUPANCY. The purpose that a building, or part thereof, is used or
intended to be used.
      OFFICER. The Code Compliance Officer of the county, the person designated
by the county to administer and enforce various codes and ordinances.
      OWNER. Any person, agent, firm, or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property.
      PARCEL. A unit of land capable of being described by location and
boundaries and not dedicated for public or common use.
      PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the building
official, the County Planner, or other authorized authority, as appropriate,
authorizing performance of a specified activity.
      PERSON. A natural person including any individual, partnership, company,
corporation, firm, association, trust, estate, foundation, state and federal
agency, institution, county, city, town, village, or municipality, or other
legal entity, however organized.
      PROPERTY. Any area, plot, or parcel of land in the county, which is under
a common ownership or is separately identified for assessment by the County
Assessor’s Office. PROPERTY shall include land under the ownership of the
United States, the State of New Mexico, or any local government or school
district entity. This definition is intended to be inclusive and not limiting
and shall therefore include all land within the boundaries of the county,
except that the definition of PROPERTY and therefore this subchapter shall
exclude property within the boundaries of the City of Deming and the Village of
Columbus, and any hereafter incorporated municipality.
      PROPERTY OCCUPANT. Any person who is occupying any property, whether by
legal right or without legal right.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person who is the recorded owner of any property
according to the records contained in the County Clerk’s office.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A self-contained driven or towed portable unit
not designed to be installed on a temporary or permanent foundation nor used
for human occupancy as a permanent residence which includes: pickup campers;
chassis-mounted motor homes; mini motor homes; park trailers; recreational
vans; pop-up tent/hard-top trailers; converted buses; camping trailers; fifth-
wheel trailers; or other vehicles that are constructed to include a chassis,
integral wheels and a towing hitch and are primarily designed or constructed to
provide temporary, readily moveable living quarters for recreation, camping, or
travel uses.
      SEWAGE. Includes residential liquid wastes, commercial liquid wastes,
industrial liquid wastes, and any drainage, but does not include stormwater.
      SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A system for transporting sewage owned and operated by
the county, a municipality, or a private disposal system approved by the State
Environmental Department.
      SHALL. Mandatory.
      SITE. A parcel of land or several contiguous parcels of land used or
occupied, or to be used or occupied, by a building and accessory buildings and
the area belonging to such buildings, bounded by a property line or a
designated portion of a public street.
      STREET or ROAD. All property dedicated or intended for public or private
access to property, or subject to public easements therefore.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, STRUCTURE shall include a wall, fence, sign, or billboard.
      TOWING SERVICE. The use of specialized equipment, including repossession
services using towing equipment, to transport and locate a manufactured/mobile
home.
      USE. The use for which land or buildings are occupied or maintained,
arranged, designed, or intended.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.04 ADOPTION OF CODES.
   (A)   Adoption of codes. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions, terms, and all appendices of the latest editions of the
following are hereby referenced to, adopted, and incorporated as fully as if
set out verbatim herein and any amendments thereto, including the latest
editions thereof:
      (1)   State Manufactured Housing Division Rules and Regulations;
      (2)   NFIP regulations, 44 C.F.R. § 60.3, flood insurance study, and
flood insurance rate map, effective October 19, 2010; and
      (3)   National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act
of 1974, being U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
   (B)   Copies of codes available for inspection. One or more copies of
applicable codes adopted in division (A) above shall be available and subject
to inspection during regular business hours in the County Planning and
Community Development Department.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.05 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The Fee Schedule for a Manufactured Home Installation Permit (MHIP) or
a Recreational Vehicle (RV) permit shall be established by the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued, nor shall an application be considered
complete prior to the receipt of said fee.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 ON-SITE UTILITY, DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All manufactured homes whether titled or untitled are subject to this
subchapter and shall, prior to occupancy, be inspected by an authorized
official, and issued a Certificate of Compliance. Approved on-site utilities,
to include water, sewer, and electricity are prerequisite to issuance of a MHIP
or a 180-day RV permit.
   (B)   All housing units and RVs shall be connected to a waste disposal
system permitted and approved by the State Environment Department (except
privies), a domestic water well permitted by the State Engineer, or be
connected to an approved potable water utility whether private or municipal.
For purposes of this section:
      (1)   There shall be no multiple users connected to a domestic water
well, nor to any on-site liquid waste disposal system except for properly
permitted community water systems and properly permitted community wastewater
systems, or as otherwise provided herein;
      (2)   All electrical, plumbing, and gas hookups shall be inspected and
approved by an inspector of the Manufactured Housing Division or CID, as the
case may be, prior to occupancy and before a Certificate of Occupancy or
Certificate of Compliance will be issued by the Code Compliance Officer, LCBO,
or the County Planning Director;
      (3)   Any water/well, sewer/septic, electric, or natural gas/LP utility
provider that connects service to individual parcels before the land owner
holds a valid MHIP is in violation of this subchapter and the service shall be
disconnected; and
      (4)   No MHIP or RV permit shall be issued until and unless the applicant
for such permit can show that they have legal access to a lot or parcel of land
either by means of a public road or by means of a properly recorded easement,
and such access shall provide reasonable physical ingress and egress to and
from the parcel of land.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 FLOOD HAZARD INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The County Floodplain Manager is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the flood hazard installation
provisions of this subchapter and other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R.
pertaining to floodplain management. No manufactured or mobile home shall be
located or installed in a flood-prone area, such as a flood hazard area as
designated by the National Flood Insurance rate map for the county, or in, on,
or over the path of an arroyo, or floodway without the prior approval of the
County Floodplain Manager and the issuance of a floodplain development permit.
All development and all construction related to such development shall comply
with the minimum standards as adopted by, or as may be amended by, the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). A new or replacement water supply system or
sanitary sewage system may be required within a designated flood hazard area
which shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the system as well as discharges from the system into flood waters, and
the on-site waste disposal system must be located so as to avoid impairment of
them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   All manufactured homes being located or installed in a special flood
hazard area shall be anchored to a permanent foundation system and installed
such that all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and other service
facilities are located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding and must meet the following
conditions: The manufactured home chassis shall be supported by reinforced
piers or other foundation elements of at least 24 inches in height above grade
and be securely anchored to a permanent foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement in areas where no base flood elevations are
determined.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.08 AGE, LOCATION OF MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   New and used or refurbished manufactured homes manufactured after the
effective date of the National Manufactured Housing Construction Standards Act
of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401, et seq. (“the Act”) may be installed anywhere in
the county. No manufactured home or mobile home manufactured prior to the
effective date of the National Manufactured Housing Construction Standards Act
of 1974 shall be transported into, or installed upon any site in the county. No
person shall transport or move into, or install upon any site in the county any
manufactured home or mobile home that does not have affixed to it a U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development Label of Certification, or other
sufficient proof of the date of manufacture.
   (B)   (1)   This subchapter is subject to any applicable private,
restrictive covenants pertaining to subdivision lots or real property. For
purposes of this subchapter, it is the sole responsibility of those persons
proposing to locate manufactured homes outside of existing mobile home parks or
any manufactured home park to ensure that manufactured homes are allowed in the
subdivision or area where they intend to locate their manufactured home.
      (2)   The county does not enforce restrictive covenants. EXISTING MOBILE
HOME PARKS are defined as those parks legally established and in existence on
the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 TRANSPORTATION, INSTALLATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, the owner of any
manufactured home, titled or untitled, with the sole intention of installing
said manufactured home to be used for residential purposes, shall obtain a MHIP
from the County Planning Department prior to installation of the home.
   (B)   This section shall also apply to such units which are specifically
manufactured for commercial purposes, are manufactured to meet National
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards, but do not meet the
requirements of the International Building Code. If the County Code Compliance
Officer, County Planner, or LCBO determines that the property for which a
permit has been requested is in violation, has outstanding violations, or may
be in non-compliance with any part of this chapter, the County Subdivision
Ordinance, any other county ordinance or any applicable state or federal
regulation, the County Planner may deny issuance of the permit until such time
as the property has been deemed compliant.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.10 TRANSPORTING OR MOVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or moving company to transport a
manufactured home, from any location within the county, or from any location
outside the county, to any site in the county, without first receiving from the
owner of the manufactured home a copy of an approved MHIP issued by the County
Planning Department.
   (B)   Any home to be transported into the county shall comply with all
provisions of this chapter. This section does not prevent the moving of a
manufactured home from a site within the county to a site outside of the
county.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 PRE-OWNED UNITS.
   (A)   Any manufactured home/mobile home offered for resale and which is
intended to be installed in the county must be habitable as defined in this
regulation prior to occupancy and issuance of a certificate of compliance.
Structural repairs, alterations, and modifications to a manufactured home are
regulated by the State Manufactured Housing Division.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the seller or purchaser to obtain
the required permits from said agency, upon inspection and approval by the
State Manufactured Housing Inspector, and compliance with this subchapter. A
certificate of compliance shall be issued prior to occupancy.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   Manufactured homes/mobile homes which were legally established in
manufactured/mobile home parks or other parcels of land prior to December
9,1999, are exempted from the requirements of this chapter, and with
appropriate documentation shall be legal non-conforming uses until moved from
that location.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.13 LEGAL NON-CONFORMING.
   (A)   A legal non-conforming manufactured home/mobile home is any
manufactured home/mobile home which was legally installed prior to December
9,1999. This does not, however, constitute an exemption from any laws or
requirements which were in effect at the time of such installation.
   (B)   Any relocation of such a home will terminate the legal nonconforming
status under this section and result in the application of this chapter.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.14 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owners of property upon which a manufactured home is to be
installed shall provide the Planning Department with a legal description, a
plat, or survey map clearly and accurately defining the location of the
property, and a sketch plan of the proposed orientation and location of the
manufactured home thereon, to include the location of the domestic well if not
connected to a community water system, the liquid waste disposal system, and
the electric service connection.
   (B)   Approved on-site utilities are prerequisite to issuance of a MHIP.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.15 HOME ANCHORS.
   (A)   All manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to the ground in
accordance with the manufacturer’s installation instructions.
   (B)   Where manufacturer’s installation instructions are not available, the
requirements shall be set out in § 49.5.1 of the State of New Mexico
Manufactured Housing Rules and Regulations, 14 NMAC 12.2, January 1, 2001.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.16 NUMBER PER SITE.
   (A)   (1)   Sites shall be limited to not more than one manufactured home on
any individual site, lot, tract, or parcel of land as recorded in the office of
the County Clerk.
      (2)   In the case of site-built residences, the temporary installation of
a manufactured home may be permitted during construction, where a valid
building permit has been issued.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the property owner receives a certificate of
occupancy for the site-built residence, the manufactured home must be removed
from the premises.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.17 HOME SKIRTING.
   (A)   All manufactured homes shall be skirted on all sides within 30 days of
the date of issue of the MHIP by the Planning Department. Material used for
skirting shall be in good condition and durable.
   (B)   Material such as vinyl sheeting, aluminum sheeting, painted galvanized
steel sheeting, and similar material shall be used. Use of poor-quality
building materials, and materials such as wood boxes, crates or pallets, used
tires, and any similar material is prohibited.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   Upon completion and verification of all inspections and requirements of this
chapter and any other applicable ordinance for manufactured homes, a
certificate of compliance shall be signed by the Code Compliance Officer, the
County Planner, or other designee, and a copy shall be provided to the owner/
occupant.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.19 OCCUPANCY COMPLIANCE.
   All manufactured home units shall not be occupied until and unless the MHIP
has been signed, noting any exceptions and/or conditions, specifying dates for
compliance with any noted exceptions, and the Code Compliance Officer, the
LCBO, or the County Planner has issued a certificate of compliance.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.20 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES GENERAL.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles general.
      (1)   Recreational Vehicles (RVs) are designed for temporary, seasonal,
or recreational use and are not built to residential standards under the New
Mexico Building Code or HUD Manufactured Housing requirements. Because they are
classified and titled as motor vehicles, RVs cannot be issued a Certificate of
Occupancy by the County or the New Mexico Construction Industries Division
(CID).
      (2)   Permanent occupancy of RVs is prohibited within the unincorporated
areas of the county. RVs used for long-term residence, defined as more than 30
consecutive or cumulative days without utilities or more than 180 consecutive
days with approved utilities, must be located in an approved and permitted RV
park or mobile home park.
   (B)   Recreational vehicle occupancy permits.
      (1)   Dry camping (30 days). No person shall engage in dry camping for
more than 30 total days in any calendar year, regardless of the number of
parcels owned, leased, or occupied, or the number of RVs utilized.
         (a)   DRY CAMPING shall mean the temporary occupancy of a self-
contained RV without connection to approved water, sewer, or electrical
utilities. The 30 days permitted under this provision may be consecutive or
cumulative, but shall not exceed a total of 30 days within the same calendar
year.
         (b)   Property ownership, rental status, or relocation of the same or
different RVs between parcels shall not reset or extend the allowable occupancy
period.
         (c)   Exceptions to this limitation may be considered by the Planning
Department under extraordinary circumstances, including, but not limited to,
documented medical or hospice care, family visitation, temporary displacement
due to natural disasters, or seasonal activities, such as hunting.
         (d)   In such cases, the Planning Department may require application
for a conditional use permit, special use permit, or limited use permit, and
may impose reasonable conditions to ensure compliance with health, safety, and
sanitation standards.
      (2)   Development permit (180 days). RVs may be occupied on a parcel for
up to 180 consecutive days only during active development of the property.
         (a)   A one-time RV development occupancy permit is required.
         (b)   The property must have installed and approved utilities (water,
wastewater, and power) prior to occupancy.
         (c)   The Planning Department may grant month-to-month extensions if
consistent development can be proven.
         (d)   At the discretion of the Planning Department, a second 180-day
RV development occupancy permit may be issued at a cost of $250, provided that
consistent development activity can be demonstrated.
      (3)   Snowbird permit (seasonal use). RVS may be occupied on a parcel by
non-resident property owners who reside primarily outside of the county, for up
to 180 days within a calendar year.
         (a)   A snowbird RV occupancy permit is required.
         (b)   Recreational vehicles must be connected to approved utilities.
         (c)   Proof of out-of-county residency is required at the time of
application.
      (4)   Universal conditions (apply to all RV permits).
         (a)   RVs cannot be occupied as permanent residences in the county,
unless located in an approved RV or mobile home park.
         (b)   Sites shall be limited to not more than one RV on any individual
site, lot, tract, or parcel of land as recorded in the office of the County
Clerk.
         (c)   Proof of ownership of land and RV is required.
         (d)   Occupancy permits are non-transferable and tied to the parcel
owner.
         (e)   RVs must remain in road-ready condition (with wheels, axles, and
registration current).
         (f)   All utilities must be approved and in the ground prior to the
issuance of the 180-day permits.
   (C)   Utility connections and habitation indicators.
      (1)   Prohibition of unauthorized utility connections. RVs shall not be
connected to permanent or semi-permanent utility services, including, but not
limited to, water, sewer, septic, or electrical service, except when located
within an approved RV park or mobile home park, or when specifically authorized
under a temporary development permit during active construction or snowbird
permit.
         (a)   Any connection of utilities outside these conditions shall
constitute prima facie evidence of residential occupancy.
         (b)   Such connections may be subject to immediate disconnection,
citation, and enforcement action by the Planning Department.
      (2)   Prohibition of habitation indicators. RVs located outside an
approved RV park shall remain in a closed and transportable condition.
Extension of slide-outs, awnings, pop-outs, skirting, steps, decks, or any
other feature intended to facilitate habitation is prohibited, unless expressly
authorized under a temporary development permit.
   (D)   Enforcement of unauthorized occupancy. Failure to obtain a permit as
required under this section, or the presence of unauthorized utility hookups,
extended slide-outs, or other indicators of habitation, shall constitute a
violation of this subchapter. Such violations are subject to the enforcement
procedures and penalties provided in §§ 152.44 and 152.99, including, but not
limited to, citations, fines, removal orders, or other remedies available under
county code.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.21 CODE COMPLIANCE OFFICER.
   The Code Compliance Officers and the Planning Department shall be
responsible for the Administration and Enforcement of this subchapter and any
other code or ordinance as directed by the appropriate county authority.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.22 INSPECTORS.
   The Code Compliance Officer may authorize or request assistance from
qualified officials or specialists, including, but not limited to, inspectors
from the Planning Department or state (building, electrical, plumbing,
manufactured housing, and the like), the County Fire Marshal or Fire Chief,
environmental staff from the State Environment Department, engineers,
technicians, technologists, or water resource specialists from the State
Engineer’s Office, and any other qualified persons to enforce, report on, or
provide advice regarding the standards set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.23 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   In addition to the criminal penalties provided for in this subchapter, any
such violation, after reasonable efforts to secure voluntary compliance with
this subchapter have failed, shall be subject to abatement as follows.
   (A)   Notice of violation. If, after inspection, as the result of a
complaint by a member of the public, or the observation of any county or state
employee, the officer is satisfied that a violation does exist, the officer
shall serve, or cause to be served by personal service, or send by prepaid
registered mail to the owner of record of the property, or to the occupant or
tenant of the property, or both, and to all persons shown by the records to
have an interest in the property, a notice of violation setting out the
particulars of the violation(s). The notice shall establish that the abatement
of the violation(s) by the owner, or occupant or tenant, or both, shall begin
in not more than ten days and shall be completed in not more than 90 days after
service of the notice. The notice shall be served at the owner’s or occupant’s
or tenant’s last known address. In the event a violation of this subchapter
constitutes an immediate danger to the public health and safety, the notice
provisions of this subsection shall not apply, and the violation may be
prosecuted and abated immediately.
   (B)   Placard. If the officer is unable to achieve service under division
(A) above he or she may place a placard containing the terms of the notice in a
conspicuous place on the property or building, and the placing of the placard
shall be deemed to be sufficient service of the notice on the owner or other
persons.
   (C)   Extension of timeframe for abatement. Where the officer is satisfied
that there is good and sufficient reason to extend the time frame for abatement
of the violation(s), he or she may extend the time frame set out in division
(A) above for a period of time not to exceed 45 days beyond the time period set
out in the original notice.
   (D)   Failure to abate. In the event the owner, occupant, or tenant of the
property where the violation exists, has failed to abate the violation(s)
within the prescribed period of time, the officer shall issue a citation or
file a complaint charging violation of this subchapter with the Magistrate
Court, or other appropriate court of jurisdiction, demanding that the owner of
the property, or the occupant, or both, be held to answer to the court for the
violation.
   (E)   Removal of violation. If the person is convicted of violating this
subchapter and continues to refuse to abate the violations, the county or
aggrieved property owner may enforce this section in any manner consistent with
law.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.24 PROHIBITION.
   The Code Compliance Officer may issue a notice prohibiting the occupancy of
any unsafe or uninhabitable manufactured/mobile home or RV.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.25 CITATION UNIFORM NON-TRAFFIC.
   The use of uniform non-traffic citation forms is authorized for use in
enforcement of this subchapter, except as otherwise provided.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Res. 25-86, passed 11-13-2025)
MOVEMENT CERTIFICATE; COLLECTION OF TAXES
§ 152.40 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter maybe cited as the “Luna County Manufactured Home
Movement Ordinance” (hereinafter “this subchapter”).
   (B)   The general purpose of this subchapter is to provide authorized county
officials with a method to facilitate the collection of property taxes on
manufactured homes within the jurisdiction and authority of the county. This
subchapter applies to all streets, highways, county roads, and public roads
within the geographic boundaries of the county, but shall not be effective
within the limits of any incorporated municipality.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 152.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A movable or portable housing structure, including
structures referred to as MOBILE HOMES, constructed to be towed on its own
chassis and designed to be installed with or without a permanent foundation for
human occupancy as a residence, and which may include one or more components
that can be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently expanded for
additional capacity, or two or more units separately towable but designed to be
joined into one integral unit, as well as a single unit. MANUFACTURED or MOBILE
HOME does not include recreational vehicles, modular, or pre-manufactured homes
built to Uniform Building Code standards and designed to be permanently affixed
to real property.
   OWNER. Any person, association, partnership, or corporation that has
dominion over, control of, or title to real or personal property, either
directly or through its authorized agent or representative.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation, association,
social club, fraternal organization, trust, estate, receiver, or any other
legal entity.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. Any owner, user, seller, purchaser, lessee, lessor,
renter, or agent, or employee thereof, or other person in control of a
manufactured home.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 152.42 MOVEMENT OF HOME THROUGH COUNTY WITHOUT TAX RELEASE, MOVEMENT
CERTIFICATE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Tax release. Except as provided in division (C) below, no movement of
a manufactured home which originates in this county shall be permitted until
the owner of such manufactured home, or his or her authorized agent, obtains
and presents to the Motor Transportation Division, a tax release issued by the
County Treasurer through the County Assessor’s office showing that either:
      (1)   All property taxes due or to become due on the manufactured home
for the current tax year, or any past tax years, have been paid, except for
manufactured homes located on an Indian reservation; or
      (2)   No liability for property taxes on the manufactured home exists for
the current tax year, or any past tax years, except for manufactured homes
located on an Indian reservation.
   (B)   Movement certificate. Except as provided in division (C), no
responsible person shall permit or conduct the movement of a manufactured home
through the county unless and until the owner of such manufactured home, or his
or her authorized agent, obtains and attaches a manufactured housing
transportation and installation permit (MHTIP), as described below, to the rear
of the manufactured home in a location that is conspicuous. Said certificate
shall be affixed to the manufactured home during all times the manufactured
home is being mobilized over the public streets, highways, county roads, and
public roads within the county. Attachment of a bona fide certificate similar
to the certificate described in §
152.43 that is issued by the Planning Department of another county within the
state, and which is attached and described herein, shall constitute compliance
with the requirements of this section.
   (C)   Exception. The movement of a manufactured home from the lot or
business of a manufactured home dealer to its destination designated by an
owner-purchaser is subject to the requirements of §§
152.01 through
152.25 and shall be exempt from this subchapter if the movement originated from
the lot or business location of the dealer and the manufactured home was part
of his or her inventory prior to the sale to the owner-purchaser. The movement
of a manufactured home by a dealer, or his or her authorized agent, as a result
of a purchase or trade-in from a non-dealer owner, is subject to the
requirements of this subchapter regardless of the destination.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-16-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 MOVEMENT CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Movement certificate fees. The County Treasurer is hereby authorized
to impose a fee for the issuance and re-issuance of the certificate(s). If
original certificate expires prior to movement of manufactured home, a new
certificate will be required. A new application shall be filled out and a re-
issuance fee shall be imposed by the Treasurer’s office. The fees will be set,
and may be adjusted from time to time, by county resolution, as approved by the
Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Form of certificate. The certificate from the County Treasurer shall
be of a size and color as determined by the Treasurer and shall contain an
expiration date that shall be no later than 30 days from the date of issuance.
   (C)   Application form. No certificate shall be issued unless an application
has been completed upon a form approved by the County Treasurer. The form shall
specify the name of the owner of the manufactured home, the identification and
registration numbers of the manufactured home, and the municipal address or
county address from which the manufactured home is being moved. The form shall
also specify the municipal address or county address, to which the manufactured
home is being moved; provided, that if the destination is a location for which
an address is not available, then the person requesting the certificate shall
give a physical description of the destination sufficient to enable a
designated county official to identify the actual site or location to which the
manufactured home is being moved. In the event the manufactured home is being
moved to a location outside the county, the County Treasurer shall forward a
copy of said application to the Treasurer of the county to which the
manufactured home is being moved, if such county is within the state. In the
event the manufactured home is being moved from a location outside the county,
the County Treasurer shall acknowledge receipt of the appropriate application
form from the Treasurer of the county from which the manufactured home is being
moved, if such county is within the state.
   (D)   Removal of certificate. It is unlawful for anyone other than the
designated county official to remove a movement certificate. Upon arrival of
the manufactured home to its designated destination within the county, and/or
no later than five days after expiration of movement certificate, the owner
shall notify the County Treasurer’s office that the manufactured home is at its
destination and/or that the movement certificate has expired. This section does
not apply when a manufactured home is being moved to a location outside of the
county.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-16-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.44 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcing entities. The Manufactured Home Tax Recovery Specialists
within the County Treasurer’s office, the County Code Enforcement Officer,
Sheriff’s Department officers, or any other duly authorized law enforcement
officer shall have authority to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Burden of proof. Unless otherwise provided herein, the burden of
establishing that a violation of this subchapter has occurred is on the
enforcing entity, who shall establish that the individual charged has violated
this subchapter beyond a reasonable doubt.
   (C)   Reporting alleged violations. Any person may report an alleged
violation of this subchapter to the Treasurer’s office, the designated Code
Enforcement Officer, or the Sheriff’s Department. Upon receipt of such report,
the enforcing entity shall ascertain the location, date, time, and specific
nature of the alleged violation.
   (D)   Authority of enforcing entity. If an investigation determines that a
violation of this subchapter exists or has occurred, the enforcing entity shall
have the authority to issue a written citation for violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 91, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating or failing or refusing to comply with the
provisions of §§
152.01 through
152.25, and the codes adopted, may be prosecuted in any court of competent
jurisdiction within the county, and shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $300. The Board of County Commissioners may apply to the District Court
for appropriate injunctive relief to compel compliance by any person whose
conduct violates any provision of §§
152.01 through
152.25. The county shall be entitled to recover a reasonable attorney’s fee if
required to enforce §§
152.01 through
152.25 through the issuance of a demand letter, or in enforcing any portion of
§§
152.01 through
152.25 in any court of competent jurisdiction. After the effective date of §§
152.01 through
152.25, all violations are subject to issuance of a citation.
   (C)   Each violation of §§
152.40 through
152.44 shall be punishable by a fine of no more than $300, and/or imprisonment
for no more than 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 77, passed 11-13-2025; Ord. 91, passed 12-16-2014; Res. 25-86, passed 11-
13-2025)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
153.08   Establishment of development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation, greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning, disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.25   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.26   Duties, responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.27   Permit procedures
   
153.28   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.40   General standards
   
153.41   Specific standards
   
153.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in NMSA § 3-18-7, delegated the
responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. The flood damage prevention rules contained herein
replace and supersede all previously issued floodplain flood damage rules and
regulations enacted by the Board of County Commissioners and applicable to the
county, including, but not limited to, Ordinance No. 3. Therefore, the Board of
County Commissioners does ordain the sections of this chapter that follow.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, and streets and bridges
located in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on a
community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After detailed
rate-making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE, or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying flood insurance study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year. Also called the BASE FLOOD.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended, through its design and construction, to collapse
under specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated
portion of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor raised aboveground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVSION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or
an examination, evaluation, and determination of mudslide (that is, mudflow)
and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See FLOODING.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program, as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   For other than new construction or substantial improvements under
the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348); includes substantial
improvement and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
      (2)   The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
      (3)   Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers,
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds,
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
      (4)   For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally aboveground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the improvement.
      (2)   (a)   This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
         (b)   The term does not, however, include either:
            1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
            2.   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE.
      (1)   A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation.
      (2)   For full requirements, see § 60.6 of the National Flood Insurance
Program regulations.
   VIOLATION.
      (1)   The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
      (2)   A structure or other development without the elevation certificate,
other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. §§
60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to
be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   The chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
“The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Luna County, New Mexico and Incorporated
Areas,” dated October 19, 2010, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps
and/or flood boundary-floodway maps (FIRM and/or FBFM) dated October 19, 2010.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.10 ABROGATION, GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement, covenant,
or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.12 WARNING, DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community, or any official or
employee thereof, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.25 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The County Floodplain Manager is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R. pertaining to floodplain management.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.26 DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation;
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency, which is the State Department of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management (DHSEM), prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
153.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state, or other source in order to administer the provisions of §§
153.40 through
153.42;
   (I)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community; and
   (J)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. chapter 1, § 65.12, of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the community’s FIRM which increases
the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided
that the community first completes all of the provisions required by § 65.12.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.27 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be
presented to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her, and
may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing
the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations,
existing and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured
homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood
hazard.
      (2)   Additionally, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure shall be floodproofed;
         (c)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the non-residential floodproofed structure shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of §
153.41(B);
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (e)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
153.26(A).
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
or erosion damage for the proposed use.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.28 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to, and surrounded by, lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, provided the relevant factors in §
153.27(B) have been fully considered.
      (2)   As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (§
153.03).
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimization of, the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements, and for other development, necessary for the conduct
of a functionally dependent use, provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
153.08,
153.26(H), or division (C) below, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated one foot above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A), as proposed in
§
153.27(A)(1), is satisfied.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to one foot or
above the base flood level or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division (B). A record of such certification, which includes the
specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed, shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation, and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
this division (D) be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is one foot above the
base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade, and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements of §
153.42(A), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes
in division (D) above. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall be consistent with §§
153.02,
153.03, and
153.04.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
153.08,
153.27, and the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
153.07 or
153.26(H).
   (D)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities, such as
sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, located and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $300 for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
county from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 81, passed 2-9-2012)
CHAPTER 154: UTILITY FACILITIES
Section
Wireless Telecommunication Facilities
   
154.01   Purpose and intent
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Applicability
   
154.04   Permit application process; other requirements
   
154.05   General requirements
   
154.06   Application fees
   
154.07   Removal of tower, antenna; revocation
Energy Production Facilities
   
154.20   Purpose
   
154.21   Implementation
 
   
154.99   Penalty
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES
§ 154.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens of the county by minimizing the negative impact of
wireless telecommunications facilities by establishing a fair and efficient
process for review and approval of applications per federal, state, and local
regulations by encouraging the use of existing facilities, by promoting the
improved appearance and functionality of any new facilities, and ensuring that
all new facilities are constructed using current technologies that are designed
to conceal the site to accommodate future growth.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. Cessation of use of a wireless support structure for wireless
telecommunications activity for at least the minimum period specified by this
chapter.
   ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL. Approval that the Administrator, or designee, is
authorized to give.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and
receives electromagnetic radio signals used in the provisions of wireless
telecommunications services.
   CARRIER ON WHEELS (COW). A portable, self-contained wireless
telecommunications facility that can be moved to a location and set up to
provide wireless services on a temporary or emergency basis.
   COLOCATION. Placement or installation of wireless facilities on existing
structures, including electrical transmission towers, water towers, buildings,
and other structures capable of supporting wireless facilities’ attachment in
compliance with all applicable codes and standards.
   CONCEALED WIRELESS FACILITY. Any wireless facility that is blended as an
architectural feature of any existing structure, or any new wireless support
structure designed to camouflage or hide the presence of antennas or towers so
that the purpose of the facility or wireless support structure is not readily
apparent to casual observation.
   ELIGIBLE FACILITY REQUEST. A request for modification or colocation of an
existing wireless tower that involves new transmission equipment or replacement
of transmission equipment, but does not include a substantial change of the
existing structure.
   EXISTING STRUCTURE. A wireless support structure erected before the
application for an eligible facility request, colocation, or modification under
this subchapter capable of supporting wireless facilities’ attachment. The term
includes, but is not limited to, electrical transmission towers, buildings, and
water towers. The term shall not include any utility pole.
   SETBACK. The area in which a wireless support structure may be expected to
fall in the event of a structural failure as defined by the subchapter.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES/SYSTEMS. One of several specialized systems that
comprises mini-macro cells, distributed antenna systems (DAS), or wi-fi hot
spots specifically for outdoor coverage. Individual small cell sites typically
cover a small radius (<2,000 feet). However, they are used in conjunction with
the “typical” cell sites, or a group of other small cell sites, as a system to
cover a broad area of dense usage requirements. These facilities’ nature and
character, due to their minimal impact, are typically permitted in quantity
justify permitting considerations.
   TOWER. A structure, guided or freestanding, that supports one or more
antenna.
   WIRELESS FACILITY or WIRELESS FACILITIES. The set of equipment and network
components exclusive of the underlying wireless support structure, including,
but not limited to, antennas, accessory equipment, transmitters, receivers,
base stations, power supplies, cabling, and associated equipment necessary to
provide wireless telecommunications services.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 154.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all construction and expansion of wireless
telecommunications facilities, except as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   Exemptions are as follows:
      (1)   Fire Department, Police Department, Department of Transportation,
or other public service facilities owned and operated by the county, local,
state, or federal government;
      (2)   Any facilities expressly exempt from the jurisdiction’s citing,
building, and permitting authority;
      (3)   Over-the-air reception devices, including the reception antennas
for direct broadcast satellites (DBS), multi-channel, multi-point distribution
(wireless cable) providers (MMDS), television broadcast stations (TVBS), and
other customer-end antennas that receive and transmit fixed wireless signals
and are primarily used for reception;
      (4)   (a)   Facilities exclusively for private, non-commercial radio and
television reception and private citizen’s bands, and other similar non-
commercial telecommunications; and
         (b)   FCC-licensed amateur radio facilities require administrative
approval and are exempt from all ordinance requirements, except reasonable
screening, setback, placement, construction, tower height, and health and
safety standards per state law.
      (5)   Facilities that exclusively provide unlicensed spread spectrum
technologies (such as IEEE 802.11a/b/g/n/ac/ax (wi-fi and Bluetooth)) where the
facility does not require a new tower.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 154.04 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS; OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All applicants for special use permits and conditional special use
permits shall comply with the requirements outlined in this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners designates the County Planning
Department (or other designee made by the County Manager) as the Administrator
to whom applications for special use permits and conditional special use
permits must be made. The Administrator is authorized to review, analyze,
evaluate, and make decisions with respect to granting, not granting, or
revoking permits.
   (C)   The applicant shall complete the following steps to assist the
Administrator in expediting the completion of the process.
      (1)   Optional pre-application conference. At the Administrator’s
discretion, applicants seeking a telecommunications permit will obtain and
review this subchapter and meet with the Administrator, either electronically
or in person, before submitting an application. Typically called for on more
complex applications (new towers, 5G, and the like), the meeting intends to
review the subchapter requirements, processes, and method of submission with
the applicant. The pre-application session may include the following:
         (a)   A discussion of potential best locations for the
telecommunications facility, taking into consideration the county’s defined
priorities that meet the applicant’s requirements for service. The application
process may require an explanation for a selected location not using the
highest priority available to the applicant. The county’s priorities (listed
from highest to lowest) are:
            1.   On existing towers or structures without increasing their
height;
            2.   On the county-owned properties;
            3.   On properties zoned, or if not zoned, characterized
predominantly by industrial use;
            4.   On properties zoned, or if not zoned, characterized
predominantly by commercial use; and
            5.   On properties zoned, or if not zoned, characterized
predominantly by residential use.
         (b)   A discussion of issues to help expedite the review and
permitting process;
         (c)   A site visit to potential best location sites, if deemed
necessary by the Administrator;
         (d)   A determination of the type of application to be made;
         (e)   A discussion of the defined information required to support the
proposed location;
         (f)   A discussion of the specific application requirements that are
needed for review and consideration by the Administrator. Requirements for the
application may vary based on the specific location, type of facility selected,
and the potential impact to the county and its citizens; and
         (g)   Any applicant desiring relief, waiver, or exemption from any
chapter requirement may request such at the pre-application meeting. The burden
of proving the need for the request lies solely with the applicant. No request
shall be approved unless the applicant provides convincing evidence that the
request will have no significant effect on the health, safety, and welfare of
the county or its residents.
      (2)   Application process. The applicant shall complete the online
application processes as defined by the Administrator at the outset of the
process.
         (a)   All applications shall contain a demonstration that the
telecommunications facility will be sited to be the least visually intrusive,
as reasonably possible.
         (b)   In addition to demonstrating that the proposed modification,
colocation, eligible facility, or new tower or telecommunications facility
blends into the character and environment of the proposed location, all
applications shall contain the following information and shall be submitted
through the online system designated by the county:
            1.   Registration of an agent, including the name, address, and
telephone numbers of the designated agent and his or her company;
            2.   Authorization of the agent as an official and representative
of the applicant, then pending approval;
            3.   Complete a project description, which shall include a general
description of the Applicant’s project and its proposed location;
            4.   Contact information, including the name, address, and
telephone number of the person or entity who will be responsible for the
applicant’s construction and management of the project;
            5.   Contact information for the support structure project manager
for the proposed location and contact information for any manager of the real
property for the proposed site (for example, building manager, tower owner);
            6.   Define the type of project (colocation, modification, new
tower, and the like), and the specific site address and description of the
project; and
            7.   Completing a tower/wireless facility registration or, if a
tower/wireless facility registration already exists for the proposed location,
completing a tower/wireless facility registration update, if needed. The tower/
wireless facility registration shall include:
               a.   Name, address, and telephone contact number for the tower
owner;
               b.   Name, address, and telephone contact number for the real
property owner, if different than the tower owner;
               c.   Current number and identification of co-locators on the
tower/facility;
               d.   Site name, number, and physical address;
               e.   Documentation and specifics regarding the agreement terms
(other than financial) demonstrating the applicant’s right, title, or interest
in the real property where the facility is to be sited, including the name,
address, and phone number of the property owner;
               f.   Description of the tower/facility, including, but not
limited to, height, setback, type of structure, and the number of existing co-
locators;
               g.   Verifiable copy of the current tower inspection report
using ANSI/TIA-222-G (or newer), including the expiration date, the company
performing inspection, and ANSI standard used;
               h.   Contact information, including name, address, and telephone
number for the person or entity performing the most recent or current tower
inspection;
               i.   A copy of the soils study report including, but not limited
to, the date completed, the person or entity name performing the soils study,
project number, and identification of the professional engineer providing
certification of the study with the state registration or license number of the
professional engineer; and
               j.   Any other information deemed necessary or required by the
county.
         (c)   Applications for a modification, colocation, or eligible
facility to an existing structure, without an increase of height or size, shall
include:
            1.   All items listed in division (C)(2)(b) above which do not
exist or are no longer current or have not recently been updated;
            2.   Project name for the existing colocation site or project;
            3.   Names, addresses, and phone numbers of persons or entities
preparing the application;
            4.   A copy of the FCC license for the carrier and a signed
statement from the owner or operator of the facility attesting that the
facility complies with current FCC regulations;
            5.   Certified site plans using ANSI/TIA-222-G (or newer),
including the professional engineer’s name and state registration/license
number, physical description of the current configuration of the site, physical
description of the proposed design of the site, contacts, setbacks, grounding
plans, security, parking, turnarounds, and description of the components
including the sizes of the components to determine that the proposal is the
least visibly intrusive design;
            6.   Certified structural analysis using ANSVTIA-222-G (or newer),
including identification of the professional engineer’s name and registration/
license number providing the analysis, a copy of all calculations, reference
documents and results, and percent loading that include all components,
structures, and foundations per rigorous standards. Loading may not exceed
100%;
            7.   Performance bond, including amounts as set by the county, to
remain in place as long as the site remains active and in place, and until the
tower or facilities are removed as required by the subchapter;
            8.   Copy of the certificate of insurance demonstrating the
requirements of the subchapter;
            9.   Identification of the general contractor(s) with proof of
current county licensure as required by the state; and
            10.   Projected start and completion dates of construction.
         (d)   Application to install a new tower or telecommunications
facility will include the following:
            1.   All information listed in divisions (C)(2)(b) and (C)(2)(c)
above;
            2.   The number, type, and design of the tower(s) and antenna(s)
proposed;
            3.   All reports, data, calculation, and design criteria which
demonstrate the tower’s capability to accommodate multiple users;
            4.   Demonstration of the applicant’s meaningful efforts to secure
shared use of existing tower(s) or other structures within the defined
parameter of one mile including, but not limited to, copies of written requests
and responses for shared use;
            5.   The new wireless facility justification includes capacity
information, the gap in coverage information, or other information
demonstrating rationale for the application; and
            6.   a.   The applicant will obtain a list of property owners and
nearby home owner associations, to include their addresses within 1,500 feet of
the proposed site’s property lines. This list of owners and addresses must be
submitted early in the application process so specific notice of any needed or
required hearing can be given to them at least seven days prior to any needed
or required hearing;
               b.   Public hearing and notification requirements are as
follows.
                  i.   In order that the county may notify nearby landowners,
prior to the approval of any application for a telecommunications permit for a
new tower, a public hearing shall be held by the county, notice of which shall
be published in accordance with the State Open Meetings Act, being NMSA §§ 10-
15-1 et seq., and the annual county notice of meetings resolution, which sets
the notice and type of publication for meetings prior to the scheduled date of
the public hearing.
                  ii.   The county shall schedule the public hearing referred
to in division (C)(2)(d)6.b.i. above once it finds the application is complete.
The county, at any stage prior to issuing a telecommunications permit, may
require such additional information as it deems necessary.
                  iii.   All public hearings pursuant to this subchapter are to
be held before the Board of County Commissioners unless specifically exempted
by this chapter; and, for any appeal purposes, the decision of the Board of
County Commissioners is the final decision of the county.
         (e)   Applications to install small wireless facilities/systems will
include the following (a special meeting with the agents/engineers/
representatives of the applicant may be needed to ensure that systems
documentation requirements are fully understood). The county’s defined small
wireless facilities design requirements are made available to applicants by the
Administrator in the small wireless facility design guidelines resolution.
            1.   All information listed in divisions (C)(2)(b), (C)(2)(c), and
(C)(2)(d) above;
            2.   The entire system and any associated groups of small wireless
facilities, within limits defined by the online application, may be included in
a single application process;
            3.   Each component of the system must be represented in the online
application process; and
            4.   Each system’s unique components must be shown and include all
the relevant data to complete the process. However, all like (virtually
identical) nodes may be demonstrated once, but must consist of all the physical
locations for each node.
      (3)   Review of application. The Administrator and the consultant(s)
shall review the application within 30 days of submission to determine if the
application is complete and meets the chapter requirements. The county and the
applicant can, by a mutual written agreement, extend the period in which the
review for completeness is conducted.
         (a)   Incomplete applications will not be accepted for further review
and processing.
         (b)   Applications submitted without the payment of costs and fees, as
required by the county, are incomplete and shall not be accepted for further
review and processing.
         (c)   If the application is not complete, the county shall notify the
applicant, in writing or via email, of the provisions of the code, ordinance,
application process, or publicly stated procedures that were not completed, and
inform the applicant that the application may be resubmitted.
         (d)   If a resubmitted application is not complete, within ten days of
the resubmission of the application, the county shall notify the applicant, in
writing, or via email of whether the resubmission is complete and that the
application may be resubmitted, and inform the applicant of the code,
ordinance, application process, or publicly stated procedures which remain
incomplete.
         (e)   If the application is complete and, based on the review of the
application, the Administrator shall, within the periods allowed under federal,
state, and local law:
            1.   Approve, approve with conditions, or deny a special use or
conditional special use permit;
            2.   Issue a written decision within ten days of deciding on the
application, which is supported by evidence contained in the online information
and records submitted by the applicant;
            3.   Place the burden of proof for the granting of the permit upon
the applicant; and
            4.   Refer the application for review and consideration; once a
variance or waiver is obtained or granted, the Administrator may request the
applicant update the application if the Administrator deems it necessary to
complete the application process.
      (4)   Public hearing and appeal of Administrator’s decision. The decision
of the Administrator can be appealed by the applicant or by the county by
submitting written notification to the Administrator. The notice of appeal’s
content shall contain the applicant’s name and a description of the wireless
telecommunications facilities. The applicant must submit the notice of appeal
within 30 calendar days after the decision.
         (a)   The hearing or appeal will be heard and considered at the next
available meeting of the Board of County Commissioners; and
         (b)   For any application or appeal which is to be presented to the
Board of County Commissioners, the County Administrator must have all
documentation prior to the time of the meeting to ensure that all proper
notices can be sent out in a timely matter.
      (5)   Construction of the proposed facility. If an application is
approved or approved with conditions, a special use or conditional special use
permit will be issued to the applicant.
         (a)   The applicant must comply with all requirements of the special
use or conditional special use permit.
         (b)   The applicant will be required to meet and satisfy all building
inspection processes generally needed for a construction project.
         (c)   The special use or conditional special use permit shall not be
assigned, transferred, or conveyed without written notification to, and
approval from, the county within six months.
         (d)   The special use or conditional special use permit may be
revoked, canceled, or terminated for violation of the permit’s conditions and
provisions, or for a material breach of this chapter as permitted by local
ordinance, state, and federal law.
         (e)   The county will provide the permit holder written notice of an
intent to revoke, cancel, or terminate the permit with identification of the
violation(s), and give the holder of the special use or conditional special use
permit with an opportunity for a hearing before the Board of County
Commissioners before revocation, cancellation, or termination.
      (6)   Completion of construction.
         (a)   When the applicant completes the project’s construction, the
applicant shall notify the Administrator of the need for a final inspection.
The county or the consultant for the county will verify that the site is
constructed in accordance with the application, meets all the requirements of
the subchapter, and that the applicant has paid all monies due to the county.
         (b)   If all requirements of this subchapter and the special use or
conditional special use permit have been met, the county will issue a
certificate of compliance to the applicant that allows operational use of the
site.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 154.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lighting. Telecommunications facilities shall not be lighted or marked
unless required by law. If lighting is needed, the applicant shall provide a
detailed plan for sufficient lighting as inoffensive as permissible under state
and federal regulations. The applicant shall also comply with any local or
state “night skies” requirements.
   (B)   Materials. Towers shall be galvanized or painted with a rust-
preventive paint of an appropriate color to harmonize with the surroundings and
shall be maintained for the tower’s life.
   (C)   Setback requirements. Stand-alone wireless telecommunications
facilities shall be no closer to any property line than the total height of the
completed unit, plus 10%. The structure should not be capable of falling onto
an adjacent property or building should the facility collapse for any reason.
The height is measured from the pre-existing grade to the highest point of the
structure.
   (D)   Security of wireless telecommunications facilities. All wireless
telecommunications facilities and antennas shall be located, fenced, or
otherwise secured in a manner that prevents unauthorized access.
   (E)   Signage.
      (1)   Telecommunications facilities shall contain a sign to provide
adequate notification to persons in the immediate area of the presence of RF
radiation or to control exposure to RF radiation within a given area.
      (2)   A sign of the same size shall also be installed to contain the site
identification number and emergency phone number(s). The sign shall be on the
fence, equipment shelter, or cabinet and be visible from an access point
outside the secured site area. On tower sites, an FCC registration sign shall
also be present. The signs shall not be lighted unless required by law, rule,
or regulation. No other signage, including advertising, shall be permitted.
   (F)   Update of signage. The applicant or future owner of the site shall
update the site identification number and emergency phone numbers of the
wireless telecommunications facility, as displayed on the required sign, within
one month of any sale, assignment, or transfer.
   (G)   Temporary communications on wheels (COW). In the event of an emergency
or natural disaster which renders other forms of communication nonviable, thus
necessitating a COW, the county, and the telecommunications provider shall
agree to special terms and conditions as needed by the county and the
telecommunications, provided:
      (1)   If a COW becomes inoperable due to force majeure or acts of God, it
must be removed from the site within 30 days of becoming unusable; and
      (2)   Regarding a special event where a COW is used, it must be removed
from the site within 48 hours of the conclusion of the event.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 154.06 APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   At the time a person applies for a special use or conditional special
use permit for a new tower, or requires an increase in height to an existing
tower or for colocating on an existing tower, or other suitable structure,
where no increase will occur in the height of the tower or other appropriate
structure, such applicant shall pay a non-refundable application fee to the
county.
   (B)   In addition to the application fee, the county may retain the services
of an expert consultant in connection with the processing and/or review of the
application and the permitting and final inspection of site. The applicant
shall be responsible for reimbursing the county for all costs and amounts
incurred by the county for such expert consultation.
   (C)   The applicant shall pay for the projected consultation costs to the
county at the time of the application.
   (D)   An application is incomplete until the application fee is paid and the
applicant has paid the costs for the expert consultant.
   (E)   The consultant shall provide the county with an invoice for the costs
of the consultation. The amount invoiced by the consultant will be assessed to
the applicant as the application processing and review fee.
   (F)   The application fees and costs are defined by the notice of fees
resolution associated with this subchapter, adopted, amended, or replaced from
time to time as the Board of County Commissioners determines.
   (G)   The applicant, the county, and the consultant will comply with all
state and local requirements concerning payment of the consultant’s fees.
   (H)   (1)   The applicant and the owner of record of any proposed wireless
telecommunications facilities property site shall, at their cost and expense,
be jointly required to execute and file with the county a bond or other form of
security acceptable to the county in at least the following amounts:
         (a)   Colocation or modification of an existing tower: $25,000;
         (b)   Small wireless facility: $15,000; and
         (c)   New tower or other structure: $75,000.
      (2)   Such sureties are deemed sufficient by the county to assure the
faithful performance of the terms and conditions of this subchapter and
conditions of any telecommunications permit or conditional use permit issued
according to this subchapter. The full amount of the bond or security shall
remain in full force and effect throughout the term of the telecommunications
permit, and any conditional use permit has been fulfilled, and until any
necessary site restoration is completed to restore the site to a condition
comparable to that which existed before the issuance of the original special
use or conditional special use permit.
   (I)   (1)   A holder of a special use or conditional special use permit
shall secure, and at all times maintain, public liability insurance for
personal injuries, death, and property damage, and umbrella insurance coverage
for the duration of the permit in amounts as set forth below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability covering personal injuries, death,
and property damage: $1,000,000 per occurrence/$2,000,000 aggregate;
         (b)   Automobile coverage: $1,000,000 per occurrence/$2,000,000
aggregate; and
         (c)   Workers compensation and disability: Amount required by state
law.
      (2)   The commercial general liability insurance policy shall
specifically include the county and its officers, employees, agents, and
consultants as additional named insureds.
      (3)   Insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or representative of
an insurance company licensed to do business in the state and with a “Best’s”
rating of at least A.
      (4)   Insurance policies shall contain an endorsement obligating the
insurance company to furnish the county with at least 30 days’ prior written
notice of the cancellation of the insurance.
      (5)   Renewal or replacement policies or certificates shall be delivered
to the county at least 15 days before the expiration of the insurance that such
policies are to renew or replace.
      (6)   The permit holder shall provide the county a copy of the policies/
certificates before construction and upon written request by the county.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 154.07 REMOVAL OF TOWER, ANTENNA; REVOCATION.
   (A)   Cessation of operations/abandonment/disrepair. The county may require
the removal of a telecommunications facility(ies) when such item(s) with a
permit have been abandoned or operations of telecommunications facility has
ceased for a period exceeding 90 consecutive days or a total of 180 calendar
days. All items and equipment subject to the telecommunications permit shall be
removed within 90 days of abandonment or the cessation of operations. If
equipment or items subject to the telecommunications permit fall into such
disrepair that a health or safety hazard is created, as determined according to
a review by a state licensed engineer, and such item are not repaired within 60
days or longer as necessary upon the permit holder demonstrating that despite
good faith efforts, such disrepair could not be responsibly cured within the
provided time, the county may require the removal of the item of the
telecommunications facility.
   (B)   Modification, location, or construction without permit. If any
equipment or item has been located, constructed, or modified without a permit,
or in a manner inconsistent with the approved permit requirements, and the
facilities have been located, constructed, or modified without first obtaining,
or in a way not authorized by, the required permit or any other necessary
authorization, the county may require the removal of the item, equipment, or
the telecommunications facility.
   (C)   Lack of insurance. If a permit holder has failed to comply with the
liability insurance requirements required by the county, the county may require
the removal of the item, equipment, or the telecommunications facility.
   (D)   Notification of violation.
      (1)   If telecommunications facilities are repaired, rebuilt, placed,
moved, relocated, modified, or maintained in a way not in compliance with this
subchapter or the telecommunication permit, or the conditional use permit, the
county shall notify the permit holder, in writing, of such violation.
      (2)   If the county makes such a determination that removal of an item,
equipment, or telecommunications facility is required, then the county shall
notify the permit holder within 48 hours that said items are to be removed.
      (3)   The county may approve an interim temporary use agreement/permit,
such as to enable the removal and/or sale of the item.
   (E)   Failure to cure. After receiving notice of a violation, the permit
holder shall have 90 calendar days to cure or remove the violation. The county
shall extend such cure period as necessary upon the permit holder demonstrating
that despite good faith efforts, such default cannot be reasonably cured.
   (F)   Failure to cure (removal of an item, equipment, or telecommunications
facility is not required).
      (1)   For all violations other than a violation which requires removal of
an item, equipment, or telecommunications facility, a permit holder has 30 days
to cure such violation(s) after notice has been mailed or delivered to the
permit holder’s address of record.
      (2)   The county may extend the cure period upon demonstration that the
permit holder has made good faith efforts to cure and that despite its good
faith efforts, such default cannot be reasonably cured within the provided
time.
   (G)   Failure to cure (removal of the item, equipment, or telecommunications
facility is required). If the permit holder cannot cure the violation that
involves removal of an item, equipment, or telecommunications facility within
the cure period, the permit holder shall dismantle and remove such item, and
any associated structures, from the site and restore the site to as close to
its original condition as possible, reasonable wear and tear excepted, within
90 days of the expiration of the cure period.
   (H)   Removal by the county. If the item, equipment, or telecommunications
facility is not removed or substantial progress has not been made to remove it
within 90 days of the permit holder receiving notice, then the county may order
officials or representatives of the county to remove the item at the sole
expense of the owner or permit holder.
   (I)   Sale upon abandonment. If the county removes or causes to be removed
the item, and the owner does not claim and remove it from the site to a lawful
location within 120 days, then the county may take steps to declare the item
abandoned, and sell it and its components.
   (J)   Temporary use permit/agreement.
      (1)   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the
county may approve an interim use permit/agreement for the item for no more
than 90 days, during which time a suitable plan for removal, conversion, or
relocation of the affected item shall be developed by the holder of the permit,
subject to the approval of the county, and an agreement to such plan shall be
executed by the holder of the permit and the county.
      (2)   In the case that such a plan is not developed, approved, and
completed within the 90-day time period, the county may take possession of and
dispose of the affected item in the manner provided in this section.
   (K)   Emergency removal. If the county determines the item is hazardous,
creates an emergency situation, or adversely affects public safety, the county
may remove or cause to be removed the item after three days’ written notice to
the permit holder or the holder of the certificate of compliance.
   (L)   Failure to cure. A permit holder still in violation after the
expiration of the cure period may be considered in default, subject to fines as
outlined in this subchapter, and the permit is subject to revocation.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-24-2022)
ENERGY PRODUCTION FACILITIES
§ 154.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners finds that the county is a most
favorable location for the production of energy, including, but not limited to,
wind, solar, coal, natural gas, nuclear, geothermal, and biomass energy
production facilities.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners wishes to promote the responsible
development of energy production facilities, and also finds that irresponsible
and uncontrolled development of energy production facilities can adversely
affect the health, safety, public welfare, and character of the county and its
residents.
   (C)   This subchapter shall govern the placement, construction, use,
modification, decommissioning, and reclamation of energy production facilities
located within the county, including privately owned land and land owned by the
United States, the state, and political subdivisions thereof, but excluding
land located within the limits of any duly incorporated municipality.
(Ord. 107, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 154.21 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The process for requesting and obtaining a permit for the placement,
construction, use, modification, decommissioning, and reclamation of an energy
production facility and the standards applicable thereto shall be established
by a separate policy, as approved by the Board of County Commissioners from
time to time, and incorporated herein by reference as if set out herein in its
entirety.
   (B)   The County Manager, or his or her designee, is hereby authorized and
directed to do all things necessary to implement this subchapter, including the
preparation and presentation of the necessary policies, procedures, and forms.
(Ord. 107, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A permit holder who violates §§
154.01 through
154.07 may be fined up to $500 for each violation, and each day that a
violation exists shall be deemed to be a separate violation.
(Ord. 53, passed 10-24-2022)
CHAPTER 155: AIRPORT ZONING
Section
Land Use
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Authority
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Scope
   
155.05   Non-conforming uses
   
155.06   Establishment of airport zones
   
155.07   Land use schedule
   
155.08   Administration
   
155.09   Zoning Commission
Height Restrictions
   
155.20   Scope, authority, title
   
155.21   Definitions
   
155.23   Zones
   
155.24   Height limitations
   
155.25   Use restrictions
   
155.26   Non-conforming uses
   
155.27   Permits
   
155.28   Administration
   
155.29   Board of Appeals; appeals
   
155.30   Judicial review
   
155.31   Enforcement and remedies
LAND USE
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of the regulations adopted pursuant to this
subchapter shall be to encourage land use patterns for housing and other local
needs that will separate uncontrollable noise sources from residential and
other noise sensitive areas, and to facilitate the orderly development of areas
around airports by establishing regulations that must be met before such
development will be permitted.
(Ord. 4B, passed 3-15-1979)
§ 155.02 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to NMSA §§ 14-20-1 et seq.
(Ord. 4B, passed 3-15-1979)
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. An area used or intended to be used for the landing and take-off of
aircraft.
   COMPATIBLE USE. A use which is presumed to be compatible for the zone in
which it is proposed and may be permitted pursuant to these regulations. A
COMPATIBLE USE shall not be regarded as a use by right.
   CNR RATING. Composite noise rating value as computed pursuant to federal
aviation administration standard and procedures, and arranged in contours on a
map of airport area of influence.
   CNR ZONE 2. A designated area over which the noise rating is between 100 and
115 CNR.
   CNR ZONE 3. A designated area over which the noise rating exceeds 115 CNR.
   DESIGNATED AREA. The area around an airport for which land use controls are
needed to prevent development that would be sensitive to aircraft noise.
   INCOMPATIBLE USE. A use which shall not be permitted in the CNR Zone where
it is proposed.
(Ord. 4B, passed 3-15-1979)
§ 155.04 SCOPE.
   These regulations shall apply to development within the airport CNR Zones 2
and 3, as defined in §
155.03.
(Ord. 4B, passed 3-15-1979)
§ 155.05 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   The provisions of these regulations shall not apply to any non-conforming
use existing on the effective date of the regulations, providing that when the
non-conforming use is discontinued for a period of six months, or the non-
conforming structure is destroyed or damaged to the extent of over 50% of the
assessed valuation of the non-conforming structure, any reuse, reconstruction,
or replacement shall be deemed a new use and shall be subject to the applicable
provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 4B, passed 3-15-1979)
§ 155.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF AIRPORT ZONES.
   (A)   In order to carry out the provisions of these regulations, the
designated area around the Deming Municipal Airport shall hereby be divided
into the following zones:
      (1)   CNR Zone 2; and
      (2)   CNR Zone 3.
   (B)   The boundaries of the above zones are hereby established as shown in
the map entitled “Airport Land Use Regulation Map for Deming Municipal
Airport,” which map and all proposed amendments thereto are hereby incorporated
by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
   (C)   In determining the boundaries of the above zones, the projected growth
and the projected class of the airport as designated in the current approved
Airport Master Plan or the State Airport System Plan, shall be considered.
(Ord. 4B, passed 3-15-1979)
§ 155.07 LAND USE SCHEDULE.
   Except when permitted by a variance issued by the zoning authority
development upon land within the designated airport area shall be regulated in
accordance with the following schedule of land uses for various airport zones.
Any development which is proposed that is in more than one zone shall be
limited to the more restrictive use. No designation of compatible use contained
in this schedule shall be construed to abrogate or contravene the provisions of
any local zoning ordinance or other local, state, or federal regulation.
   (A)   (1)   The following are designated compatible uses in CNR Zone 3:
         (a)   Open space;
         (b)   Mining, fishing, and agriculture, except mink and poultry
production; and
         (c)   When operated on land owned or leased by the airport authority:
golf courses, tennis courts, and riding and hiking trails.
      (2)   All other uses are designated as incompatible uses in CNR Zone 3.
   (B)   The following are designated us compatible uses in CNR Zone 2:
      (1)   All uses designated as compatible in CNR Zone 3;
      (2)   Playgrounds and parks, including amusement parks;
      (3)   Golf courses, riding stables, and cemeteries;
      (4)   Retail commercial establishments;
      (5)   Commercial establishments, including wholesale manufacturing,
transportation, communications, and utilities, but excluding outdoor theatres,
and stadiums;
      (6)   Other agriculture; and
      (7)   (a)   1.   Hotels and motels, provided that construction techniques
provide ten decibels extra noise reduction over the industry average for
similar structures, and that such reduction is certified to by a qualified
architect, structural engineer, or acoustical engineer registered in the state;
and
            2.   Further provided, that airport hazard insurance is available
to said establishments.
         (b)   All other uses are designated incompatible uses in CNR Zone 2.
   (C)   Variances shall be granted by the zoning authority (comprised of the
Board of County Commissioners) for residential use on all residential lots
which lie in CNR Zone 2 and which have been subdivided or sold for that purpose
prior to adoption of this subchapter.
(Ord. 4B, passed 3-15-1979)
§ 155.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the County Manager to administer and enforce
the regulations prescribed herein.
   (B)   (1)   Applications for variances shall be made to said County Manager
upon forms furnished by .
      (2)   Applications required by these regulations, to be submitted to said
County Manager, shall be promptly considered, and granted or denied.
   (C)   Appeals, judicial review, enforcement, and remedies shall be provided
pursuant to NMSA §§ 14-20-6 through 14-20-8.
(Ord. 4B, passed 3-15-1979)
§ 155.09 ZONING COMMISSION.
   The zoning authority, being the Board of County Commissioners, will act as
the Zoning Commission for purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. 4B, passed 3-15-1979)
HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
§ 155.20 SCOPE, AUTHORITY, TITLE.
   (A)   (1)   This subchapter is applicable to the area within a 9,000-foot
radius from the center of each end of the primary surface of each runway and
connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to those arcs at the Deming
Municipal Airport.
      (2)   These regulations divide said area into zones and, within such
zones, specify the land uses permitted, regulate and restrict the height to
which structures and trees may be erected or allowed to grow, and impose other
restrictions and requirements necessary to effectuate the approach plan for
said airport, said airport approach plan having been heretofore formulated and
adopted by this subchapter and the authority for same, and for these
regulations being NMSA §§ 14-40-14 through 14-40-24, all as appearing in Laws
of 1965, Chap. 300, and Federal Aviation Regulations, Part 77, Objects
Affecting Navigable Airspace.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “County
Municipal Airport Zoning Regulations for the Deming Municipal Airport” or “this
subchapter.”
(Ord. 4A, passed 12-27-1978)
§ 155.21 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Other definitions are as set out in NMSA 14-40-15, and in Federal
Aviation Regulations, Part 77, Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace.
      AIRPORT. The Deming Municipal Airport, near Deming, New Mexico.
      AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable landing area, which is 4,310 feet, MSL.
      AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT. The point established as the approximate
geographic center of the airport landing area and is established at a location
described as follows: Longitude 107° 43’ 17” West, latitude 32° 15’ 41” North.
      HEIGHT. For this purpose of determining the height limits in all zones
set forth in these regulations and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be
mean sea level unless otherwise specified.
      LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing or take-off of
aircraft.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. Any structure, tree, or use of land which is lawfully
in existence at the time these regulations become effective and does not then
meet the requirements of said regulations.
      PRIMARY SURFACE.
         (a)   A surface longitudinally centered on a runway and extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway, provided the surface is hard; otherwise,
the PRIMARY SURFACE ends at each end of that runway.
         (b)   The PRIMARY SURFACE established is 200 feet beyond each end of
the runway and has a width of 500 feet for Runway 8-26 and 250 feet for Runway
4-22.
      RUNWAY. The surface of an airport landing strip.
(Ord. 4A, passed 12-27-1978)
§ 155.23 ZONES.
   In order to carry out the provisions of these regulations, there are hereby
created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying
within the approach zones, transition zones, horizontal zone, and conical zone.
Such areas and zones are shown on the Deming Municipal Airport Zoning Map
consisting of one sheet, adopted by the Board of County Commissioners, and
dated November 1972, a copy of which is attached to the regulations codified in
this chapter and made a part hereof. The various zones are hereby established
and defined as follows.
   (A)   Approach zones. An approach zone is established at each end of all
runways in the Deming Municipal Airport for landings and take-offs. The
approach zone shall be longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline and extending outward and upward from each end of the primary
surface, and having a width equal to that of the primary surface at a distance
of 200 feet beyond each end of the runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a
width of 2,000 feet for Runway 8-26 and 1,250 feet for Runway 4-22, all at a
horizontal distance of 5,200 feet, and at a slope of 20 feet horizontally, one
foot vertically beyond each end of all runways.
   (B)   Transition zones.
      (1)   Transition zones are hereby established adjacent to each runway and
approach zone as indicated on the zoning map.
      (2)   Transition zones extend outward and upward at right angles to the
runway centerline at a slope of seven feet horizontally to one foot vertically
from the sides of the primary surface and from the sides of the approach
surfaces to the point where they intersect the surface of the horizontal zones
or the conical zone.
   (C)   Horizontal zones. A horizontal zone is hereby established as the area
within the perimeter of which is constructed by swinging arcs of a radius of
5,000 feet from the center of each end of the primary surface of each runway
and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to those arcs. The horizontal
zone does not include the approach zones, conical zones, and the transition
zones.
   (D)   Conical zones.
      (1)   A conical zone is hereby established as the area that commences at
the periphery of the horizontal zones and extends outward therefrom at a slope
of 20 feet horizontally to one foot vertically for a horizontal distance of
4,000 feet.
      (2)   The conical zone does not include the approach zones and transition
zones.
(Ord. 4A, passed 12-27-1978)
§ 155.24 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, no structure
or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or maintained in any zone
created by these regulations to a height in excess of the height limit herein
established for each zone.
      (2)   Such height limitations are hereby established for each of the
zones in question as follows:
         (a)   Approach zones. One foot in height for each 20 feet in
horizontal distance beginning at a point 200 feet from and at the elevation of
the end of the runway and extending to a point 5,200 feet from the end of the
runway.
         (b)   Transition zones. One foot in height for each seven feet in
horizontal distance beginning at any point 250 feet from the centerline of
Runway 8-26 or 125 feet from the centerline of Runway 4-22, measured normal to,
and at the elevation of, the centerlines of the runways extending 200 feet
beyond each and thereof, extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation which is 4,310 feet above the mean sea level. In addition to the
foregoing, there are established height limits of one foot vertical height for
each seven feet horizontal distance measured from the edges of all approach
zones for the entire length of the approach zones, and extending upward and
outward to the points where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces.
         (c)   Horizontal zones. One hundred fifty feet above the airport
elevation or a height of 4,460 feet above mean sea level.
         (d)   Conical zone. One foot in height for each 20 feet of horizontal
distance beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zones, extending to a
height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
   (B)   Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more
restrictive limitations shall prevail. Nothing in these regulations shall be
construed as prohibiting the growth, construction, or maintenance of any tree
or structure to a height up to 200 feet above the surface of the land within a
three-mile radius of the airport reference point.
(Ord. 4A, passed 12-27-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.25 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of these regulations, no use may be
made of land within any zone established by these regulations in such manner as
to create electrical interference with radio communication between the airport
and aircraft, make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport
lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of flyers using the airport,
impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport, or otherwise endanger the
landing, taking-off, or maneuvering of aircraft.
(Ord. 4A, passed 12-27-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.26 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive. These regulations shall not be construed
to require the removal, lowering, or other changes or alteration of any
structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date
thereof, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of any non-conforming use.
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the construction,
alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of
which begun prior to the effective date of these regulations and is diligently
prosecuted.
   (B)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding §
155.25, the owner of any non-conforming structure or tree is hereby required to
permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and
lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Board of County Commissioners to
indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the
presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be installed,
operated, and maintained at the expense of the owner of the non-conforming
structure or tree, and shall conform to the current Federal Aviation
Administration Advisory Circular 70/7460-1.
(Ord. 4A, passed 12-27-1978)
§ 155.27 PERMITS.
   (A)   Future uses. 
      (1)   (a)   Except as specifically provided in divisions (A)(1)(b)1. and
2. and (A)(2) hereunder, no material change shall be made in the use of the
land and no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted, or otherwise
established in any zone hereby created, unless a permit therefor shall have
been applied for and granted.
         (b)   Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for
which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be
determined whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the
regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the
permit shall be granted.
            1.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
the conical zone, but not within the limits of an approach zone or transition
zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 140 feet
of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain, land
contour, or topographic features such tree or structure would extend above the
height limits prescribed for such zone.
            2.   In the areas lying within the limits of the approach zones,
but at a horizontal distance of not less than 1,200 feet from each end of the
runways, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 30
feet of vertical height above the established airport elevation, except when
such tree or structure would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
instrument or non-instrument approach zone.
      (2)   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration, or
growth of any structure or tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by these regulations except as set forth in §
155.24.
   (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard, or permit a non-conforming use,
structure, or tree to be made or become higher, or become a greater hazard to
air navigation, than it was on the effective date of these regulations or any
amendments thereto, or than it is when the application for a permit is made.
Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
   (C)   Non-conforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Board of
County Commissioners determines that a non-conforming structure or tree has
been abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed,
no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed
the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   (D)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property not in
accordance with these regulations, may apply to the Board of Appeals far a
variance from such regulations. Such variances shall be allowed where it is
duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations would
result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and the relief granted
would not be contrary to the public interest but will do substantial justice
and be in accordance with the spirit of these regulations.
   (E)   Hazard marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may, if
such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of these regulations
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or trees in question, at the owner’s own expense, to
install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be
necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an airport hazard.
(Ord. 4A, passed 12-27-1978)
§ 155.28 ADMINISTRATION.
   It shall be the duty of the County Manager to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be
made to said Board of County Commissioners upon forms furnished by it.
Applications required by these regulations to be submitted to said Board of
County Commissioners shall be promptly considered and granted or denied by it.
(Ord. 4A, passed 12-27-1978)
§ 155.29 BOARD OF APPEALS; APPEALS.
   There is hereby created a Board of Appeals, and appeal rights and
procedures, under and pursuant to NMSA § 14-40-20(C), (D) (there being no
existing board of appeals or adjustment), (E), (F), (G), (H), (I), and (J) (all
as set out in Chapter 300, Laws of 1965).
(Ord. 4A, passed 12-27-1978)
§ 155.30 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Judicial review may be had as provided in, and under and pursuant to, NMSA §
14-40-21(A), (B), (C), (D), and (E) (all as set out in Chapter 300, Laws of
1965).
(Ord. 4A, passed 12-27-1978)
§ 155.31 ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   Violations, penalties, and additional relief are as provided in, and under
and pursuant to, NMSA § 14-40-22 (all as set out in Chapter 300, Laws of 1965).
(Ord. 4A, passed 12-27-1978)
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Title
   
156.002   Authority
   
156.003   Purpose
   
156.004   Jurisdiction
   
156.005   Interpretation
   
156.006   Definitions
   
156.007   Administrative fees
Pre-Application Process
   
156.020   Pre-application procedure
   
156.021   The subdivision master plan
   
156.022   Pre-application data requirements
Preliminary Plat Review Process
   
156.035   Preliminary plat submittal
   
156.036   Agency review
   
156.037   Public hearings on preliminary plats
   
156.038   Expiration of preliminary plats
   
156.039   Preliminary plat data requirements
Final Plat Review Process
   
156.050   Final plat submittal
   
156.051   Decision on final plat
   
156.052   Final plat data requirements
   
156.053   Advertising standards
   
156.054   Requirements prior to sale, lease, or other conveyance
   
156.055   Recording parcels
   
156.056   Water permits
Summary Review Process
   
156.070   Summary review procedure
   
156.071   Summary review data requirements
Special Procedures
   
156.085   Succeeding subdivision
   
156.086   Resubdivision
   
156.087   Dormant subdivisions
   
156.088   Vacation of plats
   
156.089   Variances
   
156.090   Exemptions
   
156.091   Amendments
   
156.092   Protection of cultural properties, archeological sites, unmarked
burials
Mobile, Manufactured Home Parks; Recreational Vehicle Parks
   
156.105   Existing mobile home parks
   
156.106   Recreational vehicle parks
   
156.107   Manufactured home parks
Required Improvements
   
156.120   Construction of required improvements
   
156.121   Road development
   
156.122   Improvement guarantee
Appeals
   
156.135   Who may appeal
   
156.136   Appeal process
Design and Construction Standards
   
156.150   Water supply guidelines
   
156.151   General road standards
   
156.152   Water quality and liquid waste disposal
   
156.153   Solid waste disposal
   
156.154   Terrain management
   
156.155   Cultural properties guidelines
Enforcement, Remedies
   
156.170   Purpose, authority
   
156.171   Investigation of alleged violations
Applications, Disclosure Statements, Agreements, and Charts
   
156.185   Application for preliminary plat approval
   
156.186   Application for final plat approval
   
156.187   Application for summary review plat approval
   
156.188   Application for variance
   
156.189   Disclosure statement
   
156.190   Claim of exemption form
   
156.191   Notice of appeal form
   
156.192   Construction specifications for subdivision roads
   
156.193   Agreement to construct subdivision improvements; public, private
   
156.194   Flow charts
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Luna County Subdivision
Regulations” and shall be referred to elsewhere herein as “these regulations”
or “this chapter.”
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.002 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are created pursuant to the enabling authority set forth
in NMSA §§ 47-5-1 et seq.; NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq.; NMSA §§ 4-37-1 et seq.; and
NMSA §§ 3-20-5, 3-20-6, and 3-20-9.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.003 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To provide for and protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the county;
   (B)   To guide the future growth and development of the county in accordance
with any official plans adopted by the county;
   (C)   To ensure orderly and integrated development within the county in
compliance with policies and guidelines set out in the County Comprehensive
Land Use Plan and all other county policies and regulations;
   (D)   To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy; to secure safety from
fire, flood, and other danger; and to prevent overcrowding of the land and
undue congestion of population;
   (E)   To ensure the design and provision of an adequate supply of water for
domestic and firefighting
purposes;
   (F)   To ensure the design and provision of adequate sanitary sewage
facilities and adequate solid waste disposal facilities;
   (G)   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the county and
the value of buildings and
improvements upon the land, and to minimize the conflicts among the uses of
land and buildings;
   (H)   To provide the most beneficial relationship between uses of land and
buildings, and the circulation of traffic throughout the county, having regard
to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways, and pedestrian
traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land and buildings; and to
provide for the proper location and width of streets;
   (I)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land, and to ensure proper legal descriptions and the monumentation of
subdivided land; and
   (J)   To prevent the pollution of land, air, streams, ponds, and aquifers;
to assure the adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table,
and to encourage the conservation and management of natural resources
throughout the county in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty
of the community and the value of the land.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.004 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern all subdivisions of land not within the
boundaries of municipalities but within the county. The county and a
municipality shall exercise concurrent jurisdiction over the territory within
the platting jurisdiction of both the county and the municipality. In this
latter case, the greater or most restrictive subdivision standard or regulation
will apply as to each requirement unless otherwise agreed between the county
and the municipality having concurrent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.005 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of these regulations are held to be minimum requirements.
Whenever any provisions of these regulations conflict with other laws, rules,
regulations, covenants, or ordinances, the more restrictive shall govern. These
regulations shall be construed broadly to promote the purposes for which they
were adopted.
   (A)   Prohibition of subdivision of lands where code violations exist. Where
any parcel or tact of land has against it outstanding violations of any county
code(s), the Board of County Commissioners shall not accept and shall not
consider any proposal to subdivide the subject lands.
   (B)   Acceptance of public lands. Approval of a plan of subdivision by the
Board of County Commissioners shall not constitute acceptance of any dedicated
land for maintenance by the county. Acceptance of dedicated lands for
maintenance by the county requires an application by the subdivider or property
owner(s) to the Board of County Commissioners.
   (C)   Access to lots. The Board of County Commissioners will not approve a
subdivision plat unless there is suitable documentary evidence, a title
insurance policy, or a title abstract, or some other assurance acceptable to
the Board that ensures legal right-of-way access to each lot in the subdivision
and ultimately to a public road. Such evidence shall be submitted with the
preliminary plat. Private roads within a subdivision are acceptable if a road
is a separately subdivided tract owned jointly by all lot owners in the
subdivision.
   (D)   Suitability of land for subdivision. Subdividers of lands in the
county shall bear the prime responsibility for demonstrating that lands are
suitable for subdivision. At a minimum, subdividers shall provide the Board of
County Commissioners and state agencies with information regarding the
following: topographical features; water table; water supply, both quantity and
quality; wastewater collection; treatment and disposal; soil erosion;
suitability of soil for construction; and historical and anthropological, and
archeological resources; all as further described in this chapter and in any
subdivision guidelines that may be issued from time to time by the State
Environment Department, the State Engineer’s office, the State Historic
Preservation Division, Office of Cultural Affairs, the local State Soil and
Water Conservation District, and the State Highway Department.
   (E)   Subdivision Master Plan. If a preliminary plat is only part of, or is
the first part, of a larger development, or a phased development, or a mixed
use development, or if the development is in a floodplain, then the proposed
plat shall not be considered by the county staff or the Board of County
Commissioners until a development plan or master plan has been submitted for
approval. The Subdivision Master Plan shall contain the information set out in
§
156.021(C).
   (F)   Phased development. For all five types of subdivisions, the Board of
County Commissioners may grant approval of phased development within a
subdivision contingent upon the subdivider submitting a subdivision master
plan, as set out in division (E) above, and a definite schedule of completion
of all subdivision construction improvements for each phase. The Board of
County Commissioners may set criteria for development of the initial phase as a
condition of approval of subsequent phases. Improvements for subsequent phases
shall not be started until the subdivider obtains final approval for
development of that phase. Each phase shall require separate, final plat
approval as per §§
156.038(D),
156.039(E), and
156.050(A). All subsequent phases shall conform to the subdivision regulations
and all other ordinances of the county in force at the time of preliminary plat
approval for that particular phase.
   (G)   Consultation with other agencies. In considering a preliminary plat,
the county shall request a report from any agency or person as required by the
State Subdivision Act, being NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq., or by these regulations,
to assist in determining if land is suitable for subdivision, if the subdivider
can meet the requirements of the agency, if a subdivision conforms with the
State Subdivision Act and these regulations, and in determining if the
subdivider can fulfill proposals contained in the disclosure statement.
   (H)   Proposed roads. The county is under no obligation to maintain any
subdivision road which has not been formally accepted for maintenance by the
Board of County Commissioners.
   (I)   Subdivider’s responsibility. It shall be the sole responsibility of
the subdivider to fulfill all proposals and commitments under his or her
disclosure statement.
   (J)   Subdivider’s burden to notify county. It shall be the subdivider’s
burden to notify the county upon commencement of development of a subdivision,
and completion of each required improvement as required in the subdivision
agreement. It is also the subdivider’s responsibility to notify the county with
regard to the commencement of any service or maintenance that the county has
agreed to provide under the subdivision agreement.
   (K)   Site improvements. Prior to commencement of any site or external
improvements, the subdivider shall enter into an agreement to construct
subdivision improvements (§
156.193) with the county regarding such improvements. Existence of pre-
existing, non-conforming improvement infrastructure within a proposed
subdivision will not be considered acceptable for final plat approval. The
subdivision agreement shall provide financial guarantees in an amount
sufficient to ensure the satisfactory completion of all site improvements that
the subdivider plans to complete after final plat approval. The subdivider
shall be required to provide security in an amount equal to 125% of estimated
improvement costs in the form of a bond, an irrevocable letter of credit, a
cashier’s check, an escrow account, a certificate of deposit, or a blanket
encumbrance with a trust account, all of which shall have the county as
beneficiary, or any other form of security which will assure the county of
satisfactory and timely completion of the site improvements. Estimate of costs
shall be attached to the subdivision agreement and signed by a licensed state
engineer or contractor. The said agreement and financial guarantee shall be
filed and stored in the vault of the County Treasurer. Provision shall be made
in the said agreement for a timely release of security upon completion of site
improvements. The subdivider shall also provide financial security in the
amount of 100% of total improvement costs, whenever completed, to guarantee
workmanship and materials of the subdivision site improvements for a period of
two years after their completion by the subdivider or agent, and their
inspection and approval by the county.
   (L)   Corrective replat. If, subsequent to subdivision approval and sale of
subdivision lots, the subdivision survey, and/or surveys of subdivided lots,
are found to be inaccurate, necessitating a resurvey of the subdivision as a
whole or any individual lot in the subdivision, then it shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider or the subsequent lot owners within the
subdivision to file a corrective replat with the county. The replat may be
approved administratively by the County Planning Director unless there are
major changes in the replat which, in the discretion of the County Planning
Director, require a full subdivision review. It shall be the responsibility of
the subdivider or the subsequent lot owners to pay the costs of the resurvey
and replatting, and any applicable county fees. Any resurvey and/or corrective
plat shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk and sent, by
registered mail, to all lot owners of record affected by the replat within the
subdivision. The subdivider or subsequent lot owners shall pay the costs of
said registered mailings.
   (M)   Amendments to subdivision plat and/or supporting materials. Any
amendments to the approved subdivision plat and/or supporting documentation,
including, but not limited to, the plan, documents, and disclosure statements,
shall be filed with the County Planning Director, and may be approved
administratively by the County Planning Director. If there are major changes in
the plat, the County Planning Director may require a full subdivision review in
accordance with the regulations of this chapter. The approved amendments shall
be filed with the County Clerk and sent registered mail to each lot owner
affected by the amendment(s). The subdivider or subsequent lot owners shall pay
all costs associated with such amendments in addition to any applicable county
fee.
   (N)   Extractions and impact fees. The county may, as a condition to
approval of any subdivision, require subdivision exactions and impact fees.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of land for the purpose of ranching (grazing
livestock) or farming (cultivating crops). The term FARM embraces the farm in
the ordinarily accepted sense and includes stock, dairy, poultry, fish, fruit,
trees, forest products, feed lots, truck farms and also plantations, ranches,
and all land used for farming operations.
   APPEAL. A formal process initiated by an aggrieved party to seek a review
of:
      (1)   A decision made by the County Planning Director, by the Board of
County Commissioners; and
      (2)   A decision made by the Board of County Commissioners by the
District Court.
   ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITE. A geographical location where there exists material
evidence of repeated or patterned human activities. Such sites have the
potential, through the application of appropriate archaeological methods,
techniques, and analyses, of yielding information important to understanding
the prehistory, culture, or lifestyles of a particular region or group of
inhabitants in the state.
   COMMON PROMOTIONAL PLAN. Any plan or scheme of operation, undertaken by a
single subdivider or a group of subdividers acting in concert, to offer for
sale or lease parcels of land where such land is either:
      (1)   Contiguous to or part of the same area of land; or
      (2)   Is known, designated, or advertised as a common unit or by a common
name.
   COMMUNITY LIQUID WASTE SYSTEM. A liquid waste system or sewerage system,
publicly or privately owned, including collection and treatment facilities
constructed to serve one or more subdivisions.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A water system or utility, publicly or privately
owned, that relies on surface and/or groundwater diversions, other than wells
permitted by the State Engineer under NMSA § 72-12-1, and that consists of
common storage and/or distribution facilities operated for the delivery of
water to multiple service connections. A COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM shall
have sufficient water rights to serve all lots within a subdivision(s) through
facilities that are under central ownership and management.
   CONTIGUOUS. Refers to adjacent parcels sharing a boundary line or separated
only by a road, right-of-way, or easement.
   COUNTY. Luna County, New Mexico.
   COUNTY BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners.
   COUNTY PLANNING DIRECTOR. The administrative head of the County Planning and
Building Department, or his or her designated staff or delegate. Any such
delegation of responsibilities or duties to designated staff shall be in
writing.
   DISCLOSURE STATEMENT. Statement required to be given to persons acquiring an
interest in subdivided land; this statement complies with the requirements of
NMSA § 47-6-17.
   DORMANT SUBDIVISION. A previously approved subdivision that has not had any
sales of parcels in the subdivision (excluding the sale of the entire
subdivision) within the past six years, or that has not had any improvements
made to the infrastructure within the past six years. For purposes of these
regulations, any natural division or objective separate portion, or phase or
stage, of a subdivision that meets the above test is a DORMANT SUBDIVISION.
   EROSION. Soil movement due to wind, water, gravity, or a combination of any
or all of these.
   EROSION CONTROL STRUCTURE. Any human-made device designed to prevent or
control erosion.
   ESCROW. One form of assurance of financial commitment established with the
local government or escrow agent to secure the promise to perform some act or
work.
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FINAL PLAT. Map, chart, survey, plat, or replat, prepared and certified by a
professional surveyor licensed to practice in the state, which contains a
description of the subdivided land with ties to permanent monuments prepared in
a form suitable for filing of record, meeting the requirements of this chapter.
   FLOOD CONTROL. The measures necessary or taken to protect the public’s
health, safety, or welfare from the effects of flooding.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area between the floodway and the 100-year floodplain
boundaries.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other water course and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   GROUNDWATER. Underground, interstitial water that occurs in saturated earth
material and is capable of entering a well in sufficient amounts to be used as
a water supply.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. Husband, wife, father, stepfather, mother,
stepmother, brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, son, stepson, daughter,
stepdaughter, grandson, step-grandson, granddaughter, step-granddaughter,
nephew, and niece, whether related by natural birth or adoption.
   IMPACT FEES. Charges or assessments imposed on a new development, pursuant
to the provisions of the Development Fees Act, NMSA §§ 5-8-1 through 5-8-41, in
order to generate revenue for funding or recouping the costs of capital
improvements or facility expansions necessitated by, and attributable to, the
new development.
   INDIVIDUAL LIQUID WASTE SYSTEM. A disposal system that receives liquid waste
from one parcel or lot and includes, but is not limited to, septic tank systems
and aerobic disposal systems.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. Includes, but is not limited to, such matters as roads,
curbs, gutters, sidewalks, fire hydrants, storm drainage facilities, pedestrian
and bike paths, trails, equestrian paths, water, sewer, electric, telephone,
cable and gas systems, street lights, driveways, or septic or aerobic disposal
systems.
   LEASE. To lease or offer to lease land.
   LIQUID WASTE. Domestic wastewater containing human excreta or other water-
carried waste.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A moveable or portable housing structure over 32 feet in
length or over eight feet in width constructed to be towed on its own chassis
and designed to be installed with or without a permanent foundation for human
occupancy as a residence, and which may include one or more components that can
be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently expanded for additional
capacity, or may be two or more units separately towable but designed to be
joined into one integral unit, as well as a single unit. MANUFACTURED HOME does
not include recreational vehicles or modular or pre-manufactured homes built to
UBC standards, designed to be permanently affixed to real property.
MANUFACTURED HOME includes any movable or portable housing structure over 12
feet in width and 40 feet in length, which is used for non-residential
purposes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land used for the continuous
accommodation of two or more occupied manufactured homes which are either sold,
leased, or otherwise conveyed, either individually or together with the land
upon which they sit, for non-transient use. Such a park shall be deemed a
subdivision for purposes of this chapter.
   MULTI-SECTION MANUFACTURED HOME. A manufactured home or modular home that is
a single-family dwelling with a heated area of at least 36 by 24 feet and at
least 864 square feet, constructed in a factory to the standards of the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development, the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401
et seq., and the Housing and Urban Development Zone Code 2, or the Uniform
Building Code, as amended, to the date of the unit’s construction, and
installed consistent with the Manufactured Housing Act and with the rules made
pursuant thereto relating to permanent foundations.
   OFF-SITE. Any land or premises not located within the boundaries of the
property to be subdivided, whether or not in the ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
   OPEN RANGE. Any unfenced rangeland that is currently used or potentially
could be used for the grazing of livestock.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, firm, or corporation having a legal or equitable
interest in the property.
   PARCEL or LOT. Unit of land capable of being described by location and
boundaries, and not dedicated for public or common use.
   PERSON. A natural person, including any individual, partnership, company,
corporation, firm, association, trust, estate, foundation, state and federal
agency, institution, county, city, town, village, or municipality, or other
legal entity, however organized.
   PHASE. A portion of a multi-unit subdivision that is intended to be
developed as a unit.
   PLAT. A scaled drawing, developed from a survey prepared by a professional
surveyor licensed in the state, meeting the requirements of the Surveyors
Practice Act, being NMSA §§ 61-23-1 et seq., and the “Minimum Standards for
Surveying in New Mexico.”
   POTABLE GROUNDWATER. Water contained in the subsurface strata that meets the
drinking water quality standards of the State Environment Department.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. Map of a proposed subdivision showing the character and
proposed layout of the subdivision and the existing conditions in and around
it. The map should be based upon an accurate and detailed survey of the land.
   PREVIOUSLY APPROVED SUBDIVISION. A subdivision that has been platted,
approved by the Board of County Commissioners, and filed of record.
   PROPERTY. Any area, plot, or parcel of land in the county which is under a
common ownership or is separately identified for assessment by the County
Assessor’s office. PROPERTY shall include land under the ownership of the
United States, the state, or any local government or school district entity.
This definition is intended to be inclusive and not limiting, and shall
therefore include all land within the boundaries of the county, except that the
definition of PROPERTY within the boundaries of the City of Deming and the
Village of Columbus, and any hereafter incorporated municipality.
   RESUBDIVISION. Any change to a lot line, right-of-way line, or utility
easement, of previously approved subdivisions unless the change is the result
of a vacation of plats or a variance granted by action of the Board of County
Commissioners.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, DEDICATED. Land deeded, reserved by plat, or otherwise
acquired by the county, which is dedicated for use as a road or drainage
channel or other public use.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PRIVATE. Land dedicated and intended to be used for private
access to private property, or for utilities.
   ROADWAY. The portion of the street right-of-way available for vehicular
traffic.
   SELL. To sell or offer to sell land.
   SEPTIC TANK SYSTEM. A tank and attached absorption field that is designated
and constructed to separate solids from liquids in the effluents from a lot or
lots, and which is designed to digest organic matter through anaerobic
processes and disperse the liquid excess into the soil.
   SETBACK. The shortest allowable distance between a property line and the
foundation, wall, eave, or main frame of a building or structure.
   SHALL. The word SHALL is mandatory, and not permissive.
   SKETCH PLAN. A map showing lots, road layout, drainage structures, arroyos,
and land proposed for public use, with estimated dimensions. A SKETCH PLAN
shall include a general vicinity map showing the location of the proposed
subdivision with reference to existing roadways, easements, municipalities,
significant landforms, and other landmarks.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, rubbish, or other discarded material that results
from residential, commercial, institutional, industrial, or recreational
activities.
   SUBDIVIDE. To divide a surface area of land into a subdivision.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person or agent who creates or who has created a
subdivision, individually or as part of a common promotional plan, or any
person engaged in the sale, lease, or other conveyance of subdivided land;
however, SUBDIVIDER does not include any duly licensed real estate broker or
salesperson acting on another’s account.
   SUBDIVISION. Division of a surface area of land, including land within a
previously approved subdivision, into two or more parcels for the purpose of
sale, lease, or other conveyance; or for building development, whether
immediate or future; and dormant subdivisions or portions of dormant
subdivisions, all of which are subject to these regulations. However,
SUBDIVISION does not include:
      (1)   Sale, lease, or other conveyance of any parcel that is 35 acres or
larger in size within any 12-month period, provided that the land has been used
primarily and continuously for agricultural purposed, in accordance with NMSA §
7-36-20, for the preceding three years;
      (2)   Sale or lease of apartments, offices, stores, or similar space
within a building;
      (3)   Division of land within the boundaries of a municipality;
      (4)   Division of land in which only gas, oil, mineral, or water rights
are severed from the surface ownership of the land;
      (5)   Division of land created by court order where the order creates no
more than one parcel per party;
      (6)   Division of land for grazing or farming activities, provided the
land continues to be used for grazing or farming activities;
      (7)   Division of land resulting only in the alteration of parcel
boundaries where parcels are altered for the purpose of increasing or reducing
the size of contiguous parcels, and where the number of parcels is not
increased;
      (8)   Division of land to create burial plots in a cemetery;
      (9)   Division of land to create a parcel that is sold or donated as a
gift to an immediate family member; this exception shall be limited to allow
the seller or donor to sell or give no more than one parcel per tract of land
per immediate family member;
      (10)   Division of land created to provide security for mortgages, liens,
or deeds of trust, provided that the division of land is not the result of a
seller-financed transaction;
      (11)   Sale, lease, or other conveyance of land that creates no parcel
smaller than 140 acres;
      (12)   Division of land to create a parcel that is donated to any trust
or non-profit corporation granted an exemption from federal income tax, as
described in I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), as amended;
school, college, or other institution with a defined curriculum and a student
body and faculty which conducts classes on a regular basis; or to any church
group organized for the purposed of divine worship, religious teaching, or
other specifically religious activity; or
      (13)   (a)   Sale, lease, or other conveyance of a single parcel from a
tract of land, except from a tract within a previously approved subdivision,
within any five-year period, provided that a second or subsequent sale, lease,
or other conveyance from the same tract of land within five years of the first
sale, lease, or other conveyance shall be subject to the provisions of the
State Subdivision Act, being NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq.
         (b)   Provided further, that a survey shall be filed with the County
Clerk indicating the five-year holding period for both the original tract and
the newly created tract.
   SUBDIVISION MASTER PLAN.
      (1)   The portion of a preliminary plat submitted in connection with:
         (a)   A phased or multi-phased subdivision;
         (b)   A subdivision application for multiple land uses or for a single
development of 50 or more lots;
         (c)   A commercial or industrial development application that is
proposing to utilize the summary procedure more than once:
         (d)   A proposed development that is located in a floodplain; and
         (e)   A proposed community water supply system and/or a community
liquid waste disposal system.
      (2)   A SUBDIVISION MASTER PLAN will link contiguous subdivisions or
other developments in a compatible and cohesive manner with respect to such
matters as land use, density, road pattern, walkway, and other matters as may
be determined by the Board of County Commissioners with the advice of the
County Planning Director.
   SUFFICIENT WATER RIGHTS. Current commitments subtracted from the water
rights that the water supply company or utility currently controls.
   SUMMARY REVIEW PLAT. A plat suitable for filing with the County Clerk as if
it were a final plat, containing all the notes and documentation in accordance
with the summary review procedures of this chapter.
   TERRAIN MANAGEMENT PLAN. A document prepared by a state licensed engineer
which details the proposal for the control of floods, drainage, and erosion,
and the measures required for adapting the proposed development to existing
soil characteristics and topography.
   TIME OF PURCHASE, LEASE, OR OTHER CONVEYANCE. Time of signing any document
obligating the person signing the document to purchase, lease, or otherwise
acquire a legal interest in land.
   TYPES OF SUBDIVISIONS.
      (1)   The following are the different types of subdivisions within the
county.
         (a)   TYPE ONE SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing 500 or more
parcels, any one of which is less than ten acres in size.
         (b)   TYPE TWO SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing 25 or more, but
not more than 499, parcels, any one of which is less than ten acres in size.
         (c)   TYPE THREE SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than
24 parcels, any one of which is less than ten acres in size.
         (d)   TYPE FOUR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing 25 or more
parcels, each of which is ten acres or more in size.
         (e)   TYPE FIVE SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than
24 parcels, each of which is ten acres or more in size.
      (2)   The following table includes the size and number of parcels for
each subdivision type.
 
Type of Subdivisions
Type  No. of Parcels Size of Smallest Parcel
One   500 or more    Less than 10 acres
Two   25 to 499      Less than 10 acres
Three 2 to 24        Less than 10 acres
Four  25 or more     10 acres or more
Five  2 to 24        10 acres or more
 
   UNDIVIDED FRACTIONAL INTEREST. An instrument of conveyance, including, but
not limited to, a deed on a real estate contract, wherein the grantor conveys,
or purports to convey, a fractional interest in real estate to two or more
grantees without a physical division of the real estate into two or more
separate parcels.
   VACATION. Act of rescinding (canceling) all or part of a recorded
subdivision plat, including legal dedications and grants of easements or
rights-of-way.
   VARIANCE. Any deviation from the regulations of this chapter as approved by
the Board of County Commissioners.
   VICINITY MAP. A map used to locate the subdivision showing relationship to
existing roadways, municipalities, significant landforms, or other landmarks.
   WATERCOURSE. Any river, arroyo, creek, stream, or other channel having
definite banks and evidencing regular or occasional flow of water.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM or WATER SYSTEM.
      (1)   A system that is designed, constructed, and operated and maintained
to provide potable water for domestic or commercial use.
      (2)   Such a system usually consists of source, treatment, storage,
pumping, and distribution facilities.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.007 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   Any person desiring to subdivide land in the county shall pay the
administrative fees set by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
PRE-APPLICATION PROCESS
§ 156.020 PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Pre-application conference.
      (1)   For the purpose of expediting applications and reducing subdivision
design and development costs, the county requires that a subdivider meet with
the County Planning Department for an informal pre-application conference in
accordance with the requirements provided herein.
      (2)   The pre-application conference is intended to provide general
advice to the subdivider about the procedures and data requirements for
subdivision review and approval in the county.
   (B)   Summary procedure conference. All proposed subdivisions that qualify
for approval under the summary procedure provided in §§
156.070 and
156.071 shall begin with a pre-application conference.
   (C)   Scheduling. The subdivider and the County Planning Director shall
schedule a pre-application conference in order for the subdivider to meet with
appropriate county representatives and to become acquainted with the necessary
requirements for subdivision review and approval.
   (D)   Fee. No fee shall be required for a pre-application conference.
   (E)   Statements non-binding. Neither the subdivider nor the county shall be
bound by any statements or determinations made during the pre-application
conference.
   (F)   Application/forms. The County Planning Director, to the extent
possible, shall provide sufficient information and application forms for
preliminary plat submittal in order to proceed with the county subdivision
process and to fulfill the requirements of the State Subdivision Act, being
NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.021 THE SUBDIVISION MASTER PLAN.
   (A)   Conditions for a subdivision master plan. At the first pre-conference
meeting, the need for a development/master plan will be determined.
      (1)   A subdivision master plan is required if any of the following
criteria apply:
         (a)   A development is divided into more than one phase;
         (b)   A development application is proposing multiple land uses;
         (c)   An application is for the single development of 50 or more lots
and/or blocks, or spaces or pads for recreational vehicles or manufactured
homes;
         (d)   When a commercial, office, or industrial development application
is proposing to utilize the summary procedure more than once;
         (e)   The proposed development, or part thereof, is located in a
floodplain; and
         (f)   Where a community water system and/or a community liquid waste
system is proposed or is required under the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If a subdivider states that none of the criteria in division (A)(1)
above apply, the subdivider will enter into an agreement with the county to the
effect that none of the said criteria apply. The agreement will include
penalties for any breech of the agreement.
      (3)   The county may submit the subdivision master plan to any state or
federal agencies, in addition to the State Engineer’s office, the State
Environment Department, the State Highway Department, and the County Soil and
Water Conservation District Board.
      (4)   For smaller residential developments consisting of no more than two
phases on ten or less acres, with 49 or less lots or blocks, a subdivision
master plan may be omitted at the discretion of the County Planning Director.
If a community water system and/or a community liquid waste system is proposed
or required in accordance with §§
156.150(D)(1) or (D)(2) (community water system), and
156.152(D) (community liquid waste), or multiple land uses are proposed, a
subdivision master plan is required.
      (5)   The subdivider shall be responsible for including on the
subdivision master plan all contiguous property owned, legally controlled by,
or of any development or financial interest to the subdivider.
      (6)   A preliminary plat may be submitted at the same time as the master
plan. A final plat may not be submitted at the same time as the master plan or
the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Purpose of a subdivision master plan. The subdivision master plan is
intended to achieve the following objectives:
      (1)   To implement the policies of the County Comprehensive Land Use
Plan, the Interim Land Use ordinance, and the objectives and policies of any
other county plan, strategy, ordinance, or resolution;
      (2)   To ensure a coordinated and integrated development of land within
the county in terms of land use arrangement, road development, stormwater
drainage, water supply, liquid waste disposal, solid waste disposal, and
community facilities;
      (3)   To ensure compatibility of land uses;
      (4)   To ensure compatibility in scale of development in terms of housing
form/type, and density;
      (5)   To ensure the conservation of natural resources or heritage
features;
      (6)   To provide a means for determining fiscal impacts and requirements
for capital improvements; and
      (7)   To ensure a coordinated approach, by the subdivider, to the
construction and provision of required site improvements.
   (C)   Subdivision master plan requirements. An application for approval of a
subdivision master plan shall include the following information:
      (1)   (a)   A color-coded, or black and white patterned, land use plan
superimposed on a topographical survey with contour intervals appropriate to
adequately represent the differences in elevation of the land, along with any
significant physiographic features such as arroyos, rivers or creeks, washes,
floodplains, mountains, and rock out-crops. Existing and proposed zoning, if
appropriate, shall be indicated on the plan.
         (b)   Such plan will be prepared by a land use planning consultant or
a professional engineer licensed in the state.
      (2)   The land use plan shall also contain the following information:
name of the development/master plan (if any); a north arrow; date of
preparation of the plan; written and graphic scale; name, address, and
telephone number of the consultant who prepared the plan; name, address, and
telephone number of the subdivider/developer; a legend adequately interpreting
the plan; proposed land use by parcel and phase; approximate number of lots or
blocks proposed for residential and non-residential uses (by type of use);
proposed size of any commercial blocks; and proposed densities for residential
use;
      (3)   A detailed area/vicinity map clearly showing the surrounding area
and the proposal’s relationship to existing road networks, to adjacent land
uses, and any significant physiographic or human-made features that may impact,
or be impacted, by the development proposal. Existing zoning, if any, is to be
shown for lands surrounding the proposed development;
      (4)   A legal description of the property along with total acreage to be
developed;
      (5)   Any easements and the purpose of such easements;
      (6)   A written report shall be prepared by the subdivider’s consultant
describing in both textual and tabular form the proposed development proposal
and the rationale behind key elements of the plan. At a minimum, the report
shall provide information concerning the following items:
         (a)   Land use of each phase, lot, and block;
         (b)   Acreage of each phase, lot, and block;
         (c)   Total number of lots and blocks by phase;
         (d)   Total number of residential dwelling units;
         (e)   Number of dwelling units per acre by phase;
         (f)   Acreage proposed for commercial uses, and an estimate of
commercial square footage by block or parcel for each phase. Criteria used to
determine size and location;
         (g)   Acreage proposed for open space, public and private facilities,
and road rights-of-way;
         (h)   Approximate additional population to be generated by the
proposed development by phase;
         (i)   Approximate additional traffic;
         (j)   Community facilities, number, location, who will develop, and
when and who will maintain. Criteria used to determine size and location of
these facilities are as follows:
            1.   Schools;
            2.   Parks and recreational facilities;
            3.   Fire and police facilities; and
            4.   Utilities.
         (k)   All subdividers must file a plan for water supply system,
including a plan showing the proposed location of wells;
         (l)   A liquid waste disposal plan, which may include a community
system, or a plan showing the location of septic tanks or aerobic waste
disposal systems;
         (m)   A solid waste disposal plan;
         (n)   A conceptual terrain management plan sufficient in its detail to
show how drainage and erosion issues will be addressed and what measures are
necessary to adapt the proposed development to soil characteristics and
topographic conditions;
         (o)   A conceptual utilities plan with sufficient information to
provide a general outline of utility routes, and size and location of existing
and proposed utilities for the development proposal;
         (p)   A road development plan. A traffic analysis of the impact of the
development on the existing adjacent road network, including recommendations
and estimated costs for necessary improvements to that network, may be required
by the county;
         (q)   A description of how legal access to each lot or block will be
provided;
         (r)   A plan for conservation of historic, archeological, and
anthropological sites or resources;
         (s)   Timing and staging of development;
         (t)   Copies of existing easements, deed restrictions, and restrictive
or protective covenants within the lands to be covered by the development
master plan;
         (u)   The application for approval of the development/master plan
shall be signed by all owners as well as those with a financial interest; and
         (v)   A fee, as established by the Board of County Commissioners,
shall be paid upon submittal of the application.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.022 PRE-APPLICATION DATA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Sketch plan.
      (1)   A sketch plan shall be prepared by the subdivider that shows the
proposed layout of streets and plats, with estimated dimensions and other
relevant site information.
      (2)   The location of the proposed subdivision must be adequately
described on a general map of the area.
   (B)   Additional information. In addition to the sketch plan and location
map, the subdivider shall provide information including, but not limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Name and mailing address of the subdivider and designated agent, if
any;
      (2)   Name of owner or owners of land to be subdivided;
      (3)   A written description of the proposed subdivision;
      (4)   A description of surrounding land uses;
      (5)   Accessibility of site to roads and utilities;
      (6)   Terrain management and drainage factors;
      (7)   Location of any designated 100-year floodplains;
      (8)   Location of existing utilities, roads, and other watercourses
within 500 feet of the proposed subdivision; and
      (9)   An indication of the source of the water supply and liquid waste
disposal.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW PROCESS
§ 156.035 PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   Preliminary plats shall be submitted for Type One, Type Two, Type
Three, and Type Four subdivisions. Certain Type Three and all Type Five
subdivisions are subject to review under the summary procedure set forth in §§
156.070 and
156.071.
   (B)   Unless a parcel is supplied water by an approved community water
system, the minimum parcel size shall be three and one-half acres.
   (C)   A subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat and supporting
documentation in accordance with the requirements provided in these
regulations. Preliminary plat submittal is initiated by completing an
application on the prescribed form set out in §
156.185 available from the County Planning Director and upon payment of the
required administrative fees, which fees shall be set periodically by
resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
   (D)   (1)   On receipt of the application, fees, preliminary plat, and
supporting documentation and information as set out in §
156.039, the County Planning Director shall review all materials in order to
determine if the preliminary plat is ready to begin the review process.
      (2)   If there are no deficiencies, the preliminary plat is deemed
complete for review by written notice to the subdivider within 30 days after
the date of receipt of the complete application.
      (3)   If the preliminary plat is incomplete or does not comply with the
submittal requirements provided herein, the subdivider shall be notified and
given opportunity to correct deficiencies and return the preliminary plat for
consideration.
   (E)   The following procedures shall apply to preliminary and summary plat
review by the county of proposed subdivisions within concurrent jurisdictional
areas.
      (1)   The County Planning Director shall refer anyone who wishes to
subdivide land within the concurrent planning and platting jurisdiction to the
municipality for investigation as to the potential future inclusion in its
master plan and plat review in accordance with the provisions of the municipal
subdivision regulations; and
      (2)   Anyone who proposes a subdivision outside the municipal master
plan, and the municipality wishes to relinquish its jurisdiction, shall, in
writing to the County Planning Director, indicate its desire to waive its
jurisdiction and allow the subdivision plat review process to proceed in
accordance with county subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.036 AGENCY REVIEW.
   (A)   Plat transmittals. Within ten days after the date that the preliminary
plat is deemed complete, the County Planning Director shall forward a copy of
the preliminary plat and supporting documentation to the following state and
local agencies by certified mail, return receipt requested, with a request for
review and opinions:
      (1)   State Engineer’s office;
      (2)   State Environment Department;
      (3)   State Highway and Transportation Department;
      (4)   Soil and Water Conservation District in which the proposed
subdivision is located;
      (5)   Historic Preservation Division Office of Cultural Affairs;
      (6)   County departments as described by the County Planning Director;
and
      (7)   Any other agencies considered necessary by the County Planning
Director.
   (B)   Agency response. The state and local agencies shall have 30 days from
their receipt of the preliminary plat to review and return an opinion regarding
the preliminary plat. The County Planning Director shall obtain receipts or
other proof showing the date the opinion request was received by each state and
local agency.
   (C)   Agency requirements. Prior to approving any subdivision, the County
Planning Director shall ensure that the following representatives and
individuals have been contacted and given the opportunity to make their
comments on the proposed subdivision within 30 days of the receipt of the plat,
and that their comments on the subdivision, if any, have been received within
the time limits permitted in this regulation, have been given due
consideration. In addition to the following agencies, the County Planning
Director may also request opinions and comments from any other agency or
individual with specific expertise relating to the development of a given
subdivision. The following agencies will be contacted:
      (1)   The State Engineer to determine:
         (a)   Whether the subdivider can furnish sufficient water quantity to
fulfill the maximum annual water requirements of the subdivision, including
water for indoor and outdoor domestic uses; and
         (b)   Whether the subdivider can fulfill the proposal in his or her
disclosure statement concerning water, excepting quality.
      (2)   The State Environment Department to determine:
         (a)   Whether the subdivider can furnish water of an acceptable
quality for human consumption and measures to protect the water supply from
contamination in conformity with state regulations promulgated pursuant to the
Environment Improvement Act, NMSA §§ 74-1-1 through 74-1-10;
         (b)   Whether there are sufficient liquid and solid waste disposal
facilities to fulfill the requirements of the subdivision in conformity with
the state regulations promulgated pursuant to the Environmental Improvement
Act, the Water Quality Act, NMSA §§ 74-6-1 et seq., and the Solid Waste Act,
NMSA § 74-9-1; and
         (c)   Whether the subdivider can fulfill the proposals contained in
his or her disclosure statement concerning water quality, and concerning liquid
and solid waste disposal facilities.
      (3)   The State Highway and Transportation Department to determine
whether the subdivider can fulfill the state highway access requirements in
conformity with state regulations promulgated pursuant to NMSA § 67-3-16. In
addition, any subdivision activities that may impact state highway facilities
are to be approved by the State Highway Transportation Department.
      (4)   The Soil and Water Conservation District to determine:
         (a)   Whether the subdivider can furnish terrain management sufficient
to protect against flooding, inadequate drainage, and erosion; and
         (b)   Whether the subdivider can fulfill the proposals contained in
his or her disclosure statement concerning terrain management.
      (5)   The State Historic Preservation Division to determine that cultural
properties, directly affected by the subdivision, are identified and protected,
as required by the Cultural Properties Act, NMSA § 18-6-8-1.
      (6)   The County Fire Marshal to determine whether the subdivision
proposal complies with applicable portions of the National Fire Protection Act
(established by the NFPA).
      (7)   The County Roads Superintendent to determine if the design, layout
construction details, roads information in the disclosure statement, and all
other facets of the plan and components of the subdivision proposal conform to
all applicable standards.
      (8)   The County Floodplain Manager to determine whether the subdivision
lies within a FEMA designated floodplain and to notify the subdivider of any
ongoing or proposed projects which may affect the proposed subdivision.
      (9)   All utility companies affected by the proposed subdivision to
determine whether the proposed subdivision can provide easements to meet their
respective service needs.
      (10)   The affected local school district to review the plat and to state
whether a school facilities are adequate to accommodate the student population
anticipated in the subdivision.
   (D)   Hearing deadlines. If the opinions received from all agencies are
favorable, the county shall schedule a public hearing for consideration and
action on the preliminary plat within 30 days following the receipt of the last
such favorable opinion. If the county does not receive a requested opinion
within the specified 30 days, it shall be deemed that the opinion is favorable
and the county shall proceed with the required public hearing.
   (E)   Adverse opinion. If any opinion from a public agency is adverse, the
County Planning Director shall forward a copy of the adverse opinion to the
subdivider and request that additional information be provided to the county
within a reasonable time, not exceeding six months, to respond to the concerns
of the appropriate agency. The County Planning Director shall forward such
additional information upon receipt to the appropriate agency that shall have
30 days after the date the subdivider submits the additional information in
order to revise its opinion. The County Planning Director shall obtain receipts
or other proof showing the date the additional information was received by each
state or local agency.
   (F)   Revised opinion. The county shall schedule a public hearing for
consideration and action within 30 days after the receipt of the last such
revised opinion from the appropriate agency. If the county does not receive a
revised opinion within the specified 30 days after the date the subdivider
submits the additional information, it shall be deemed to be favorable and the
county shall proceed with the required public hearing.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.037 PUBLIC HEARINGS ON PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   Scheduling. The county shall conduct a public hearing after receipt of
all requested opinions, either favorable or revised, within the time periods
specified in these regulations. Notice of the public hearing shall be given at
least 21 days before the hearing date.
   (B)   Notice. The notice of public hearing shall be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the county and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Subject of the hearing;
      (2)   Time and place of the hearing;
      (3)   Manner for interested persons to present their views; and
      (4)   Place and manner for interested persons to get copies of any
favorable or adverse opinion and of the subdivider’s proposal and the fee for
each copy. A copy of the notice containing the same information shall be posted
conspicuously to public view on the property.
   (C)   Notification. Copies of the notice of public hearing shall be
transmitted to the following:
      (1)   The subdivider filing the application for preliminary plat
approval;
      (2)   Those public agencies which initially received copies of the
preliminary plat and supporting documentation with a request for opinion;
      (3)   Any interested person who previously requested such notice and
provided a stamped, self-addressed envelope for such purpose; and
      (4)   Owners of property contiguous to land proposed to be subdivided.
   (D)   Participation/record. At the public hearing, the county shall allow
all interested persons a reasonable opportunity to submit data, views, or
arguments, orally or in writing, and to examine witnesses testifying at the
hearing. A record of the public hearing shall be kept. The opinions of the
public agencies shall be made a part of the record.
   (E)   Action. Within 30 days after the completion of the public hearing, the
Board of County Commissioners shall approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the preliminary plat at a public meeting, the date, time, and place
of which shall be announced publicly at the conclusion of the public hearing.
The County Planning Director shall inform the subdivider, in writing, of the
decision of the Board of County Commissioners.
   (F)   Approval. Approval or conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall
constitute approval of the proposed subdivision design and layout submitted on
the preliminary plat, and shall be used as a guide in the preparation of the
final plat.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.038 EXPIRATION OF PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   Expiration. An approved or conditionally approved preliminary plat
shall expire 24 months after its approval or conditional approval. Upon request
by the subdivider, an extension of time, not to exceed 12 months, may be added
to the expiration date by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Phased development. If the preliminary plat was approved for phased
development, the subdivider may file final plats for portions of the
development and the expiration date of the preliminary plat shall be extended
for an additional 36 months after the date of the filing of each final plat.
The number of phased final plats shall be determined by the Board of County
Commissioners at the time of the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat.
   (C)   Extension. Before the expiration date of the approved or conditionally
approved preliminary plat, the subdivider may submit to the Board of County
Commissioners an application for extension of the preliminary plat for a period
of time not exceeding 36 months.
   (D)   Expiration effect. The expiration of the approved or conditionally
approved preliminary plat shall terminate all proceedings on the subdivision,
and no final plat shall be filed without first processing a new preliminary
plat.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.039 PRELIMINARY PLAT DATA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. At a minimum, the supporting documentation required for the
preliminary plat review is intended to provide sufficient information for the
county to determine that:
      (1)   Water is sufficient in quantity to fulfill the maximum annual water
requirements of the subdivision, including water for indoor and outdoor
domestic uses;
      (2)   Water is of an acceptable quality for human consumption and
measures are taken to protect the water supply from contamination;
      (3)   There are satisfactory means of liquid waste disposal for the
subdivision;
      (4)   There are satisfactory means of solid waste disposal for the
subdivision;
      (5)   There are satisfactory roads to each parcel, including entry and
exit for emergency vehicles, and there are appropriate utility easements to
each parcel;
      (6)   Terrain management protects against flooding, inadequate drainage,
and erosion;
      (7)   There are protections for cultural properties, archaeological
sites, and unmarked burials that may be directly affected by the subdivision,
as required by the Cultural Properties Act, being NMSA §§ 18-6-1 et seq.;
      (8)   The subdivider can fulfill the proposals contained in the
disclosure statement for the subdivision; and
      (9)   The subdivision will conform to the State Subdivision Act, being
NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq., and these regulations.
   (B)   Minimum documentation.
      (1)   Supporting documentation, as a minimum, shall include:
         (a)   Water supply plan, including conservation, water quality, and
fire protection components;
         (b)   Liquid waste disposal plan;
         (c)   Solid waste disposal plan;
         (d)   Accessibility of site to roads and utilities;
         (e)   Terrain management plan;
         (f)   Cultural properties protection;
         (g)   Infrastructure site plan showing location of proposed wells,
septic tanks, leaching fields, and their relationship to property lines and
potential building envelopes; and
         (h)   Disclosure statement including any restrictive covenants that
will apply to the subdivision and their means of enforcement.
      (2)   For specific requirements for the supporting documentation, refer
to Article 11.1 through 11.6.
   (C)   Filing specifications.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit 15 copies of the preliminary plat and
supporting documentation for local review and distribution to public agencies.
      (2)   A computer aided digital drawing file format shall also be
provided, preferably in .dwg or .dxf format. Preliminary plat maps shall be
prepared at a scale of 200 feet to one inch or larger, and printed on sheets no
larger than 24 by 36 inches. Sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more than
one sheet is used.
   (D)   Map specifications. The preliminary plat map shall show the following:
      (1)   Title, scale, north arrow, and date;
      (2)   Existing topography and any regarding plans indicating contour
intervals sufficient for planning purposes;
      (3)   Existing and proposed boundary lines, in bearings and distances,
for the subdivision;
      (4)   Proposed lot lines, with lot and block number, dimensions, and
approximate acreage of each lot;
      (5)   The location, dimensions, and purpose of existing and proposed
easements;
      (6)   Names and right-of-way widths of existing and proposed streets on
and adjacent to the subdivision;
      (7)   Existing and proposed utilities on and adjacent to the site;
      (8)   Locations, dimensions, and purpose of any land to be dedicated to
the public use, including any improvements to be made to that land;
      (9)   Location of subdivision in relation to well-known landmarks;
      (10)   Location of archaeological, historical, or culturally significant
features on the site;
      (11)   Delineation, if applicable, of any 100-year floodplain as
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (12)   Names and addresses of the owner or owners of land to be
subdivided, the subdivider If other than the owner, and the land surveyor;
      (13)   Legal description indicating the range, township, and section
within which the subdivision is located; and
      (14)   A vicinity map.
   (E)   Phased subdivisions.
      (1)   Subdivisions that are proposed to be phased and filed in multiple
final plats shall include an anticipated phasing schedule for the final plats
and a schedule of improvements.
      (2)   Phased subdivisions shall conform to the subdivision master plan
approved for the phased development in §
156.021.
   (F)   Disclosure statement.
      (1)   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a draft disclosure
statement in accordance with the standardized format provided in §
156.189. A disclosure statement shall be required for all subdivisions.
      (2)   The purpose of the disclosure statement is to permit the
prospective purchaser, lessee, or other person acquiring an interest in
subdivided land to make an informed decision about the purchase, lease, or
other conveyance of the land.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
FINAL PLAT REVIEW PROCESS
§ 156.050 FINAL PLAT SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   Conformity. Following approval or conditional approval of a
preliminary plat, and before the expiration of the plat, the subdivider shall
prepare a final plat in substantial conformity with the approved or
conditionally approved preliminary plat. Subdivisions proposed to be phased in
multiple final plats shall be submitted as indicated on the phasing schedule
submitted with the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Plat deemed complete. A subdivider shall prepare a final plat and
supporting documentation in accordance with the requirements provided in these
regulations. Final plat submittal is initiated by completing an application on
a prescribed form set out in §
156.186 and submitting said form to the Planning Department, who shall review
all materials in order to determine whether the final plat is complete. If
there are no deficiencies, the final plat will be deemed complete for review by
written notice to the subdivider within 30 days after the date of application.
If the final plat is incomplete or does not comply with the submittal
requirements provided herein, the subdivider shall be notified and will be
given an opportunity to correct the deficiencies and return the final plat for
consideration.
   (C)   Proceeding after plat approval. After a subdivision receives final
plat approval, the subdivider shall have two years from the date of approval of
the final plat by the Board of County Commissioners to complete all
improvements required by the county in the subdivision. An extension of up to
one year may be granted by the Board of County Commissioners upon written
request by the subdivider. Until one of the following options listed below is
met, the final plat shall not be signed by the Board of County Commissioners,
nor shall the final plat be filed with the office of the County Clerk, and no
lot sales may take place:
      (1)   Either all of the required improvements, both on-site within the
subdivision, and external to the subdivision, all as required by the county,
must be completed, inspected, and accepted by the county; or
      (2)   A letter of credit, a cashier’s check, a surety bond, certificate
of deposit, escrow account, a blanket encumbrance with a trust account, or
other financial assurance in an amount equal to 125% of the estimated costs for
the improvements, in a form acceptable to the Board of County Commissioners,
and an agreement to construct subdivision improvements (§
156.193), which cover all of the required improvements on-site and external to
the subdivision, must be entered into with the county, and must be filed and
stored in the vault of the County Treasurer.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.051 DECISION ON FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Action. Final plats submitted to the county for approval shall be
approved or disapproved by the Board of County Commissioners at a public
meeting within 30 days after the date the final plat is deemed complete.
   (B)   Denial. The Board of County Commissioners shall not deny a final plat
if it has previously approved a preliminary plat for the proposed subdivision
and it finds that the final plat is in substantial compliance with the
previously approved preliminary plat. Denial of a final plat shall be
accompanied by a finding identifying the requirements that have not been met.
   (C)   Improvement agreement. If, at the time of approval of the final plat,
any public improvements have not been completed by the subdivider as required
by these regulations, the Board of County Commissioners shall, as a condition
preceding approval of the final plat, require the subdivider to enter into an
agreement, as prescribed in §
156.193, with the county, on mutually agreeable terms, to thereafter complete
the improvements at the subdivider’s expense.
   (D)   Failure to act. If the Board of County Commissioners does not act upon
a final plat within the required period of time, the subdivider shall give the
Board of County Commissioners written notice of its failure to act. If the
Board of County Commissioners fails to approve or reject the final plat within
30 days after that notice, the Board of County Commissioners shall, upon demand
by the subdivider, issue a certificate that the final plat has been approved.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.052 FINAL PLAT DATA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Filing specifications. The original drawing of the final plat shall be
submitted in waterproof ink on Mylar or acetate, or other durable material
suitable for reproducing copies. A computer aided digital drawing file format
shall also be provided, preferably in .dwg or .dxf format. Final plat maps
shall be drawn at a scale of 200 feet to one inch or larger and printed on
sheets no larger than 24 by 36 inches. When more than one sheet is used to
include the entire subdivision, all sheets shall be cut to the same size and
shall show appropriate references to other sheets of the subdivision. The
subdivider shall also submit two paper copies of the final plat map and
accompanying information.
   (B)   Map specifications. The final plat map shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name of subdivision, scale, north arrow, and date;
      (2)   Permanent monuments, or descriptions and ties to such monuments, to
which all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat shall be
referred;
      (3)   Tract boundary lines, easement, and right-of-way lines, and
property lines of residential lots and other sites, with accurate dimensions,
bearings, or deflection angles, and radi, arcs, and central angles of all
curves;
      (4)   Accurate description of legal access to, roads to, and utility
easements for each parcel, and if the access or easement is based upon an
agreement, the recording data in the land records for the agreement;
      (5)   A vicinity map;
      (6)   Name, right-of-way width, and centerline data of each road or other
right-of-way;
      (7)   Location, dimensions, and purpose of all easements and dedicated
public sites;
      (8)   Number of each parcel in progression, with its dimensions, and the
dimensions of all land dedicated for public use or for the use of the owners of
parcels fronting on or contiguous to the land;
      (9)   Names of owners of contiguous unplatted land;
      (10)   Delineation of any 100-year floodplain as designated by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (11)   The names of the owner or owners of the subdivision, and the
developer if other than the owner;
      (12)   The certification of a surveyor registered in the state attesting
to the accuracy of the plat, and the date of the survey;
      (13)   Legal description indicating the range, township, and section
within which the subdivision is located; and
      (14)   A statement that there shall be no resubdivision of any lot(s) or
block(s), or other parcel within the final plat of subdivision.
   (C)   Affidavit. The final plat shall contain a statement that the land
being subdivided is subdivided in accordance with the final plat. The final
plat shall be acknowledged by the owner and subdivider, or their authorized
agents, in the manner required for the acknowledgment of deeds. Every final
plat submitted to the County Clerk shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the
owner and subdivider, or authorized agents, stating whether or not the proposed
subdivision lies within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction of the county.
A copy of the final plat shall be provided to every purchaser, lessee, or other
person acquiring an interest in the subdivided land before sale, lease, or
other conveyance.
   (D)   Dedication. The final plat shall contain a certificate stating that
the Board of County Commissioners has accepted subject to improvement, or
rejected, on behalf of the public, any land offered for dedication for public
use in conformity with the terms of the offer of dedication. The certificate
shall also state that on full conformity with county road construction
standards, the roads may be accepted for maintenance by the county, but the
county is not responsible for maintenance until roads are formally accepted.
Acceptance of offers of dedication on a final plat shall not be effective until
the final plat is filed in the office of the County Clerk, or a resolution of
acceptance by the Board of County Commissioners is filed in that office.
   (E)   Disclosure statement. For all subdivisions, a disclosure statement
shall be prepared in accordance with the standardized format provided in §
156.189. It is unlawful to sell, lease, or otherwise convey land in a
subdivision until the required disclosure statement has been filed with the
County Clerk, the Board of County Commissioners, and the Attorney General’s
office; and the prospective purchaser, lessee or other person acquiring an
interest in the subdivided land has been given a copy of the disclosure
statement. The subdivider shall attach to the disclosure statement copies of
written opinions of all agencies, individuals and groups that submitted such
comments at the preliminary plat stage. If an initial opinion of an agency was
adverse, such adverse opinion must be included along with a statement of how
the situation was rectified and the subsequent agency agreement.
   (F)   Conformity. The Board of County Commissioners shall not approve the
plat of any subdivision if the subdivider cannot reasonably demonstrate that he
or she can fulfill the proposals contained in his or her disclosure statement,
or if the subdivider has not conformed with the State Subdivision Act, being
NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq., and the county’s subdivision ordinance.
   (G)   Land Sales Act. Any subdivider who has satisfied the disclosure
requirement of the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act, being 15 U.S.C.
§§ 1701 et seq., may submit the approved statement of record in lieu of the
disclosure statement required by the State Subdivision Act. However, any
information required in the State Subdivision Act and not covered in the
subdivider’s statement of record shall be attached to the statement of record.
   (H)   Environment Department approval. For any subdivision requiring
construction of a public water supply system or a community liquid waste
system, documentation of approval from the State Environment Department shall
be required for final plat approval.
   (I)   Recording. The final plat is in full force and effect only after
having been recorded in the office of the County Clerk within one year after
the date of approval by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (J)   Water permit.
      (1)   Until July 1, 1997, the Board of County Commissioners shall require
that the subdivider provide a copy of a water permit obtained from the State
Engineer for the subdivision water use:
         (a)   For all subdivisions containing 20 or more parcels, any one of
which is two acres or less in size, issued pursuant to NMSA §§ 72-5-1, 72-5-23,
or 72-5-24; or
         (b)   If the subdivision is located within a declared undergroundwater
basin, issued pursuant to those sections or NMSA §§ 72-12-3 or 72-12-7. Until
July 1, 1997, the Board of County Commissioners shall not approve the final
plat unless the State Engineer has issued a water permit for the subdivision
water use.
      (2)   On or after July 1, 1997, the Board of County Commissioners shall
not approve the final plat if the State Engineer has not issued a permit for
the subdivision water use for all subdivisions containing lots less than three
and one-half acres.
   (K)   Clear title. Before approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall
provide a title insurance binder from a local title insurance company
evidencing marketable title to the entire subdivision. The binder shall list
all conditions and encumbrances to the title. If the property is subject to an
existing real estate contract or similar interest, that must also be disclosed.
The subdivider shall obtain and file any necessary releases of mortgage,
contract interest, or other encumbrance affecting title to allow a policy of
title insurance to be issued subject only to the standard exceptions.
   (L)   Agriculture. Subdividers are required to disclose to purchasers that
state law includes statue NMSA §§ 47-9-1 through 47-9-4, cited as the Right to
Farm Act, being NMSA §§ 47-9-1 et seq. According to this law, “any agricultural
operation or facility is not, nor shall it become, a private or public nuisance
by any changed condition in or about the locality of the operation or facility,
if the operation or facility was not a nuisance at the time it began, and has
been in existence for more than a year.” The Right to Farm Act includes, but is
not limited to, operations and facilities within the farm or ranch such as:
chemical application, field preparation, irrigation, cultivation, conservation
practices, pruning, plowing, planting, roadside market, or any other use of the
land for the production of plants, crops, trees, forest products, orchard
crops, livestock, poultry, or fish.
   (M)   Construction improvements warranty of two years. If, after final
inspection and acceptance of the on-site and external works performed, as
required by the Board of County Commissioners as a condition to plat approval,
and prior to the expiration of two years from the date of acceptance, or such
longer period of time as may be prescribed by law, any work is found to be
defective, whether the failure is the result of construction or materials
failure, the subdivider shall promptly and without cost to the county, in
accordance with the County Roads Superintendent’s written instruction, either
correct such defective work, or if it has been rejected by the County Roads
Superintendent, remove it from the site and replace it in accordance with the
terms of said instruction. The county may have the defective work corrected or
the rejected work removed and replaced, and all direct and indirect costs of
such correction, or removal and replacement, including compensation for
additional professional services, shall be paid by the subdivider. All
subdivisions shall be guaranteed by a two-year warranty of improvements that
shall obligate the subdivider to repair or replace to county standards any
improvements which fail within two years of the county’s final inspection of
both on-site and external construction related to the subdivision. In order to
ensure compliance with this regulation, the subdivider shall provide financial
security in an amount equal to 100% of the value of the works inspected and
approved by the county. Such financial security shall be in the form of an
irrevocable letter of credit, a surety bond, a cashier’s check, an escrow
account, a certificate of deposit, a blanket encumbrance with a trust account,
or other security satisfactory to the county. The warrant shall be in a form
acceptable to the county.
   (N)   Release of collateral. If the subdivider provides financial guarantees
in a manner described in Paragraph 15 of the form found in §
156.193 and with the provisions of §
156.005(K) for improvements within and external to the subdivision, and wishes
to draw on that letter of financial assurance, the procedure set out in
Paragraphs 19, 20 and 21 of the form found in §
156.193 will apply.
(Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.053 ADVERTISING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Filing requirements. Copies of all brochures, publications, and
advertising relating to subdivided land shall be filed with the Board of County
Commissioners and the Attorney General within 15 days after initial use by the
subdivider.
   (B)   Requirements/restrictions. Brochures, disclosure statements,
publications, and advertising of any form relating to subdivided land shall:
      (1)   Not misrepresent or contain false or misleading statements of fact;
      (2)   Not describe deeds, title insurance, or other items included in a
transaction as “free” and shall not state that any parcel is “free” or given as
an “award” or “prize” if any consideration is required for any reason;
      (3)   Not describe parcels available for “closing costs only” or similar
terms unless all such costs are accurately and completely itemized; or when
additional parcels must be purchased at a higher price;
      (4)   Not include an asterisk or other reference symbol as a means of
contradicting or substantially changing any statement;
      (5)   Accurately portray, if subdivision illustrations are used, the
subdivision in its present state; and, if illustrations are used portraying
points of interest outside the subdivision, state the actual road miles from
the subdivision;
      (6)   Not contain artists’ conceptions of the subdivision or any
facilities within it unless clearly labeled as such, and shall not contain maps
unless accurately drawn to scale with the scale indicated;
      (7)   Not contain references to any facilities, points of interest, or
municipalities located outside the subdivision unless the distances from the
subdivision are stated in the advertisement in actual road miles; and
      (8)   Refer to the location where the subdivider’s disclosure statement
may be obtained.
(Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.054 REQUIREMENTS PRIOR TO SALE, LEASE, OR OTHER CONVEYANCE.
   It is unlawful to sell, lease, or otherwise convey land within a subdivision
before the following conditions have been met.
   (A)   Final plat approval. The final plat shall be approved by the Board of
County Commissioners and shall be filed with the Clerk of the county in which
the subdivision is located. If a subdivision lies within more than one county,
the final plat shall be approved by the Board of County Commissioners of each
county in which the subdivision is located, and shall be filed with the County
Clerk of each county in which the subdivision is located.
   (B)   Relevant documents. The subdivider shall furnish the Board of County
Commissioners a sample copy of sales contracts, leases, and any other documents
that will be used to convey an interest in the subdivided land.
   (C)   Permanent marks. Monuments for the exterior corners of a subdivision
shall be set by the surveyor who certified the plat of the subdivision prior to
recordation of the subdivision plat. Interior corners of the subdivision shall
be set within 30 days after completion of the construction of infrastructure
improvements, but within one year after recordation of the subdivision plat.
The surveyor certifying the subdivision plat shall be responsible for selling
interior corners and shall certify on the plat that the monuments shall be set
by the surveyor in accordance with these standards.
   (D)   Required improvements completed. Either all improvements required by
the county must be completed, inspected, and accepted by the county, or a
financial guarantee, in the form of a letter of credit, cashier’s check, surety
bond, certificate of deposit, escrow account, a blanket encumbrance with a
trust account, or other surety acceptable to the Board of County Commissioners
are given, and the subdivider and the county have entered into an agreement to
construct subdivision improvements, which improvements may be internal and/or
external to the subdivision. The form of the construction agreement is
prescribed in §
156.193.
(Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.055 RECORDING PARCELS.
   (A)   Authority. NMSA § 47-6-9(A)(17) requires counties to enact regulations
for recording all conveyances of parcels with the County Clerk. As defined in
the Act, the term PARCEL means land capable of being described by location and
boundaries, and not dedicated for public or common use.
   (B)   Purpose. Recording conveyances of parcels provides anyone interested
in acquiring land, and lenders with important information about the condition
of title. Recording conveyances of all parcels also provides public officials
with information needed to detect illegal subdividing. The purpose of this
information is to protect buyers and lenders and to help enforce the Act and
these regulations by making all conveyances of parcels matters of public
record.
   (C)   Requirement. Any person who sells, leases for an initial term plus
optional terms in excess of five years, or otherwise conveys any interest in
any parcel located in whole or in part in the county shall record the deed,
lease, real estate contract, or other document of conveyance with the County
Clerk no later than five days after the closing or 30 days after the date on
which the document is signed, whichever comes first. A memorandum of lease may
be recorded in lieu of recording the lease itself, as provided in NMSA § 14-9-
1. A memorandum of sale or conveyance may be recorded in lieu of the document
itself. For purposes of this section, the provision set forth herein shall
specifically apply to documents of conveyance conveying, or purporting to
convey, multiple undivided fractional interests in one parcel. All such
documents of conveyance shall be subject to review by the county to determine
the applicability, if any, of this chapter. Grantors shall provide underlying
information on the conveyance as requested by the county.
   (D)   Form and certification. Any deed, lease for an initial term plus
optional terms in excess of five years, real estate contract, or other document
used to convey any interest in any parcel located in whole or in part in the
county shall be in a form acceptable for recording, and duly acknowledged and
certified as required by the provisions of NMSA § 14-8-4.
   (E)   Plat attachment.
      (1)   The deed, lease, real estate contract, or other document of
conveyance shall have a survey plat and legal description of the parcel
attached to it if the parcel being conveyed is not part of a platted
subdivision recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
      (2)   If the parcel being conveyed is a land division and constitutes an
exemption from the Subdivision Act, being NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq., the survey
plan shall display, prominently, a note indicating the specific exemption, and
the said note must be signed by the property owner(s) or his, her, or their
agent, demonstrating that the land division shown is with his, her, or their
free consent and in accordance with his, her, or their wishes.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.056 WATER PERMITS.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall require that the applicant
demonstrate that a state engineer permit has been issued. The provisions of §
156.052(J) apply in this regard.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
SUMMARY REVIEW PROCESS
§ 156.070 SUMMARY REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Qualifications. The following types of subdivisions shall be submitted
to the county for approval under summary review procedure:
      (1)   Type Three subdivisions containing five or fewer parcels of land,
unless the land within a subdivision has been previously identified in the
County Comprehensive Plan as an area subject to unique circumstances of
conditions that require additional review; and
      (2)   All Type Five subdivisions.
   (B)   Conference required. A pre-application conference is required before
application for summary review and approval. The pre-application process is
described in §§
156.020 through
156.022.
   (C)   Application/fees. A subdivider shall prepare a summary review plat and
supporting documentation in accordance with the requirements provided in these
regulations. The summary review plat shall be considered as a final plat
suitable for filing with the County Clerk. Summary review plat submittal is
initiated by completing an application on a prescribed form as set out in §
156.187, and upon payment of the required administrative fees.
   (D)   Plat deemed complete. On receipt of the application, fees, summary
review plat, and supporting documentation, the County Planning Director shall
review all materials in order to determine if the preliminary plat is ready to
begin the review process. If there are no deficiencies, the summary review plat
will be deemed complete for review by written notice to the subdivider within
30 days after the date of application. If the summary review plat is incomplete
or does not comply with the submittal requirements, the subdivider shall be
notified and given an opportunity to correct the deficiencies and return the
summary review plat for consideration.
   (E)   Public bearing. Summary review plats submitted to the county for
approval shall be approved or disapproved by the Board of County Commissioners
at a public hearing within 30 days of the date the summary review plat is
deemed complete.
   (F)   Notice. The notice of public hearing shall be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the county and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Subject of the hearing;
      (2)   Time and place of the hearing;
      (3)   Manner for interested persons to present their views; and
      (4)   Place and manner for interested persons to get copies of any
favorable or adverse opinion and of the subdivider’s proposal. A copy of the
notice containing the same information shall be posted conspicuously to public
view on the property.
   (G)   Notification. Copies of the notice of public hearing shall be
transmitted to the following:
      (1)   The subdivider filing the application for approval;
      (2)   Public agencies, if any, which initially received copies of the
supporting documentation with a request for opinion;
      (3)   Any interested person who previously requested such notice and
provided a stamped, self-addressed envelope for such purpose; and
      (4)   Owners of property contiguous to land proposed to be subdivided.
   (H)   Improvement agreement. If, at the time of approval of the summary
review plat, any public improvements have not been completed by the subdivider,
as required by these regulations, the Board of County Commissioners shall, as a
condition preceding approval of the summary review plat, require the subdivider
to enter into an agreement with the county, on mutually agreeable terms, to
thereafter complete the improvements at the subdivider’s expense. The
provisions of §§
156.050(C) and
156.052(M) and (N) shall apply.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.071 SUMMARY REVIEW DATA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Filing specifications. The original drawing of the summary review plat
shall be submitted in waterproof ink on Mylar or acetate, or other durable
material suitable for reproducing copies. A computer aided digital drawing file
format shall also be provided, preferably in .dwg or .dxf format. Summary
review plat maps shall be drawn at a scale of 200 feet to one inch or larger,
and printed on sheets no larger than 24 by 36 inches. If more than one sheet is
used to include the entire subdivision, all sheets shall show appropriate
references to other sheets of the subdivision. The subdivider shall also submit
four paper copies of the summary review plat map and accompanying information.
   (B)   Map specifications. The summary review plat map shall meet all
requirements for final plats as per §
156.052, including the following information:
      (1)   Name of subdivision, scale, north arrow, and date;
      (2)   Permanent monuments, or descriptions and ties to such monuments, to
which all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat shall be
referred;
      (3)   Tract boundary lines, easement, and right-of-way lines, and
property lines of residential lots and other sites, with accurate dimensions,
bearings, or deflection angles, and radii, arcs, and central angles of all
curves;
      (4)   Accurate description of legal access to, roads to, and utility
easements for each parcel, and if the access or easement is based upon an
agreement, the recording data in the land records for the agreement;
      (5)   A vicinity plan;
      (6)   Name, right-of-way width, and centerline data of each road or other
right-of-way;
      (7)   Location, dimensions, and purpose of all easements and dedicated
public sites;
      (8)   Number of each parcel in progression, with its dimensions and the
dimensions of all land dedicated for public use or for the use of the owners of
parcels fronting on or contiguous to the land;
      (9)   Names of owners of contiguous unplatted land;
      (10)   Delineation of any 100-year floodplain, as designated by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (11)   The names of the owner or owners of the subdivision, and the
developer if other than the owner;
      (12)   The certification of a surveyor registered in the state attesting
to the accuracy of the plat, and the date of the survey; and
      (13)   Legal description indicating the range, township, and section
within which the subdivision is located.
   (C)   Acknowledgment and copy. The summary review plat shall be acknowledged
by the owner and subdivider, or authorized agents, in the manner required for
the acknowledgment of deeds. A copy of the summary review plat shall be
provided to every purchaser, lessee, or other person acquiring an interest in
the subdivided land prior to sale, lease, or other conveyance.
   (D)   Dedication. The summary review plat shall contain a certificate
stating that the Board of County Commissioners has accepted, accepted subject
to improvement, or rejected, on behalf of the public, any land offered for
dedication for public use in conformity with the terms of the offer of
dedication. Upon full conformity with county road construction standards, the
roads may be accepted for maintenance by the county. Acceptance of offers of
dedication on a summary review plat shall not be effective until the summary
review plat is filed in the office of the County Clerk or a resolution of
acceptance by the Board of County Commissioners is filed in that office.
   (E)   Disclosure statement. For all subdivisions, a disclosure statement
shall be prepared in accordance with the standardized format provided in §
156.189. It is unlawful to sell, lease, or otherwise convey land in a
subdivision until the required disclosure statement has been filed with the
County Clerk, the Board of County Commissioners, and the Attorney General’s
office; and the prospective purchaser, lessee, or other person acquiring an
interest in the subdivided land has been given a copy of the disclosure
statement.
   (F)   Land Sales Act. Any subdivider who has satisfied the disclosure
requirement of the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act, being 15 U.S.C.
§§ 1701 et seq., may submit the approved statement of record in lieu of the
disclosure statement required by the New Mexico Subdivision Act, being NMSA §§
47-6-1 et seq. However, any information required in the State Subdivision Act
and not covered in the subdivider’s statement of record shall be attached to
the statement of record.
   (G)   Advertising standards. The advertising standards covering the sale,
lease, or other conveyance of subdivided land provided in §
156.053 shall be applicable to summary review plats.
(Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
156.999
SPECIAL PROCEDURES
§ 156.085 SUCCEEDING SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Any proposed subdivision may be combined with a previous subdivision
and upgraded for classification purposes by the Board of County Commissioners
if the proposed subdivision includes:
      (1)   A part of a previous subdivision that has been created in the
preceding seven-year period;
      (2)   Any land retained by a subdivider after creating a previous
subdivision if the previous subdivision was created in the preceding seven-year
period; or
      (3)   Land adjoining a previous subdivision that is owned by the original
subdivider.
   (B)   The cost of improvements to upgrade the subdivision shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider, or the party initiating the action.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.086 RESUBDIVISION.
   (A)   All or a portion of any final plat filed in the office of the County
Clerk may be resubdivided by the same procedures prescribed in these
regulations for the subdivision of land.
   (B)   Resubdivision shall include any change to a lot line, right-of-way
line, or utility easement, unless the change is the result of a vacation of
plats or a variance granted by action of the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.087 DORMANT SUBDIVISIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, lease, or by other conveyance to
transfer a parcel within a dormant or inactive subdivision before the following
conditions have been met.
   (A)   Definition.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, a DORMANT SUBDIVISION is defined as a
previously approved subdivision that has not had sales of parcels within the
subdivision during the past six years, or has not had any improvements made to
its infrastructure within the past six years.
      (2)   For purposes of this chapter, any objective separate portion, or
phase or stage, of a subdivision that meets this definition is a dormant
subdivision. INFRASTRUCTURE, is defined in §
156.006.
   (B)   Procedure. Prior to selling any additional parcels of land in a
dormant subdivision which has been previously filed in the office of the County
Clerk, an owner of the subdivided parcels must submit a new application for
approval following the same procedures prescribed in these regulations for the
initial subdivision of land. An updated disclosure statement must also be
approved and filed for any dormant subdivision.
   (C)   Due process. When considering the application for approval of a
dormant subdivision, the Board of County Commissioners shall duly consider the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the county and the prospective
purchasers, along with the economic use of the property.
(Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.088 VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   Cause. Any final plat filed in the office of the County Clerk may be
vacated, or a portion of the final plat may be vacated, if:
      (1)   The owners of the land proposed to be vacated sign an
acknowledgment declaring the final plat or a portion of the final plat to be
vacated, and the statement is approved by the Board of County Commissioners; or
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners finds that a plat was obtained by
misrepresentation or fraud, and orders a statement of vacation to be prepared
by the county.
   (B)   Statement of vacation. The vacation of all or a portion of a final
plat shall be initiated by submittal of a request for vacation to the County
Planning Director, along with the names of all the owners of record of property
within the subdivided land to be vacated, the names of all owners of record of
property contiguous to the subdivided land to be vacated, and statements of
acceptance by public utilities. The authorized representatives of all utility
companies that have easements within the area proposed for vacation must sign a
notarized statement agreeing to the proposed vacation, or indicating their
conditions to any agreement to the proposed vacation.
   (C)   Vacation of all, portion of, final plat. Property owners seeking to
vacate all or a portion of a final plat shall submit the following information
to the County Planning Director:
      (1)   A title report from a local abstract company showing all owners of
record of parcel(s) to be vacated;
      (2)   A map or plat detailing the area involved, and a new survey or
replat with the revised legal description for the parcel(s); and
      (3)   Pay the required fee as established by the Board of County
Commissioners from time to time.
   (D)   Scheduling and notification. Within 60 days after receipt of the
statement of vacation and payment of the appropriate review fee, the Board of
County Commissioners shall approve or deny the vacation application, subject to
the following:
      (1)   Action shall be taken at a public meeting;
      (2)   At least 15 days before the proposed meeting, all owners of record
of property, including holders of easements, within the subdivision to be
vacated, and all owners of record of property contiguous to the subdivided land
to be vacated, shall have been notified by mail of the proposed vacation and
the date, time, and place of the public meeting at which the vacation will be
considered by the Board of County Commissioners;
      (3)   Relevant utilities and other agencies have been notified.
   (E)   Action.
      (1)   In approving the vacation of all or a part of final plat, the Board
of County Commissioners shall decide whether the vacation will adversely affect
the interest of persons on contiguous land or of persons within the subdivision
being vacated.
      (2)   In approving the vacation of all or a part of the final plat, the
Board of County Commissioners may require that roads dedicated to the county in
the final plat continue to be dedicated to the county.
   (F)   Filing. The approved statement declaring the vacation of all or a
portion of a final plat shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk. The
County Clerk shall mark the final plat with the words “Vacated” or “Partially
Vacated” and refer on the final plat to the volume and page number on which the
statement of vacation is recorded.
   (G)   Utilities. The rights of any utility existing before the total or
partial vacation of any final plat are not affected by the vacation of a final
plat.
   (H)   Enclosing the adjoining streets and alleys. The owners of parcels on
the vacated portion of the final plat may enclose in equal proportions the
adjoining streets and alleys that are authorized to be abandoned.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.089 VARIANCES.
   No variances that may be granted shall constitute a grant of special
privilege inconsistent with the limitations on other properties in the
immediate area.
   (A)   Planned development area.
      (1)   The Board of County Commissioners may grant a variance from the
standards and requirements of these regulations if it is presented with a plan
and program of a new town, a complete community, or a neighborhood unit, which,
in the judgment of the Board of County Commissioners, provides adequate public
spaces and improvements for the circulation, recreation, light, air, and
service needs of the tract when fully developed and populated, and which also
provides such covenants and other legal provisions as will assure conformity
to, and achievement of, the plan.
      (2)   (a)   Such planned development area must conform to the policies of
the Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and must fit and be compatible with contiguous
development in the county.
         (b)   Fit and compatibility shall include, but is not limited to, the
following: land uses, scale of existing development, density, road pattern,
landscaping, lighting, open space provisions, water supply and liquid waste
facilities, easements, and other criteria deemed appropriate by the County
Planning Director in consultation with other county departments and public
agencies.
   (B)   Conditions and limitations. A variance shall not be granted which will
cause the county to absorb costs over and above those typically associated with
subdivision approval. In granting variances, the Board of County Commissioners
may require such conditions as will:
      (1)   Substantially secure the objectives of the standards of these
regulations;
      (2)   Not adversely affect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public, if otherwise consistent with the general purpose and intent of these
regulations and if not injurious or detrimental to the surrounding area;
      (3)   Limit further expansions;
      (4)   Impose time limits;
      (5)   Impose conditions on the type of construction;
      (6)   Impose height limitations;
      (7)   Require buffering of certain land uses where appropriate; and
      (8)   Ensures compatibility of land use and density of development.
   (C)   Procedures. The following procedures and requirements shall apply to
all requests for variances under these regulations.
      (1)   Requests for variances shall be submitted in writing at the time of
request for preliminary plat approval on the form prescribed in §
156.188, and upon payment of the required administrative fee.
      (2)   Variance requests shall be reviewed by the Board of County
Commissioners in public hearings at the same time public hearings are held for
approval of the preliminary plat.
      (3)   Notice of the request for variance shall be given in the same
manner as notice is provided for any public hearing required in these
regulations, and shall comply with the requirements of the Open Meetings Act,
being NMSA §§ 10-15-1 et seq., of the state.
      (4)   Variance requests shall be submitted to the state or other
reviewing agency having expertise with respect to the subject matter for which
the variance is sought, and shall be governed by the same time limits.
      (5)   The Board of County Commissioners shall make written findings of
fact regarding each of the requirements of these regulations and shall produce
those findings of facts as a portion of its decision and order on each request
for variance.
      (6)   The decision and order shall be prepared, signed, and filed within
five working days after the public hearing at which the variance is considered.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.090 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Approval required. It is unlawful for any person to divide a surface
area of land, including land within a previously approved subdivision, into two
or more parcels for the purpose of sale, lease, or other conveyance or for
building development, whether immediate or future, unless such person either
obtains approval for a subdivision, as provided in these regulations, or files
and obtains approval for a claim of exemption as provided for in division (B)
below.
   (B)   Verification of exemption.
      (1)   Any person claiming entitlement to an exemption under the
provisions of this chapter, and as defined by the State Subdivision Act, being
NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq., shall file an affidavit, on the form prescribed in §
156.190, attesting to the validity of the exemption being claimed, and shall be
filed with the County Planning Director.
      (2)   (a)   The County Planning Director shall review the claim of
exemption and supporting documents, and shall mail written notice of whether
the exemption has been approved or denied to the person claiming the exemption
within 30 days after receipt of the completed claim of exemption.
         (b)   Provided, however, that the 30-day period shall not begin to run
until the person claiming the exemption has delivered a completed claim of
exemption form with all supporting documents to the County Planning Director.
      (3)   If the claim of exemption is approved, or if the County Planning
Director fails to mail written notice to the claimant within 30 days after
receipt of the completed claim of exemption and all supporting documents, the
person claiming the exemption may divide the land in the manner proposed in the
claim of exemption without complying with the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   If the claim of exemption is denied, the person claiming the
exemption may appeal the denial as provided in §§
156.135 and
156.136, or may submit an application for a subdivision as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.091 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   These regulations may be amended from time to time as conditions
warrant.
   (B)   Amendments shall be made by ordinance adopted by the Board of County
Commissioners in accordance with NMSA §§ 4-37-1 et seq., as amended, and in
accordance with NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.092 PROTECTION OF CULTURAL PROPERTIES, ARCHEOLOGICAL SITES, UNMARKED
BURIALS.
   (A)   Archaeological survey.
      (1)   All lands that are proposed to be subdivided shall be investigated
by an archaeologist who is permitted by the State Cultural Properties Review
Committee for the purpose of identifying and evaluating the significance of
cultural properties, archaeological sites, and unmarked burial sites that might
be impacted directly by the subdivision.
      (2)   An exception to this section shall be granted by the Planning
Director in consultation with the State Historic Preservation Division if the
area has been previously surveyed and a report has been prepared that is
acceptable to the State Historic Preservation Division. An archaeological
survey report of the land to be subdivided shall accompany the preliminary plat
at time of submittal to the County Planning Director. Such survey report shall
include, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Research and analysis of the Archaeological Records Management
Section (ARMS) site files and the State Register of Cultural Properties
maintained by the State Historic Preservation Division and the Bureau of Land
Management historic plat records;
      (2)   An intensive pedestrian survey of the property for evidence of
archaeological features, artifacts, or culturally altered landscapes at least
50 years old, following current standards adopted by the Cultural Properties
Review Committee; and
      (3)   One of the following recommendations:
         (a)   The proposed development will not affect cultural properties and
no further archaeological investigations are required because no cultural
properties, archaeological sites, or unmarked human burials were found;
         (b)   There are cultural properties, archaeological sites, or unmarked
human burials, but the proposed development will not have an affect upon them.
The cultural property, archaeological site, or unmarked human burial can be
avoided by project redesign or establishing a non-disturbance easement around
it. If the cultural property, archaeological site, or unmarked human burial
will be placed in a non-disturbance easement, the easement must be shown on the
approved plat of the subdivision; or
         (c)   The cultural properties, archaeological sites, or unmarked human
burials will be affected by the proposed development and a resolution to
mitigate the adverse effects is recommended by the archaeologist.
      (4)   The County Planning Director shall submit the preliminary plat and
survey report to the State Historic Preservation Division for review and
comment. The subdivider shall be responsible for implementing the mitigation
plan approved by the County Planning Director and the State Historic
Preservation Division.
   (B)   Unmarked human burials.
      (1)   According to state law, any human burial in the state in any
unmarked burial ground is accorded the protection of law and shall receive
appropriate and respectful treatment and disposition.
      (2)   All subdividers shall comply with the requirements of NMSA § 18-6-
11.2, which prohibits the knowing, willful, and intentional excavation,
removal, disturbance, or destruction of any human burial, buried, entombed, or
sepulchered in any unmarked burial ground except by authority of a permit
issued by the State Medical Investigator or by the State Cultural Properties
Review Committee with the concurrence of the State Archaeologist and State
Historic Preservation Officer.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
MOBILE, MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS; RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
§ 156.105 EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Mobile home park/subdivision. An area of land upon which more than two
trailers or mobile homes are located, either free of charge or for revenue
purpose.
   (B)   Mobile home defined. A moveable or portable housing structure larger
than 40 feet in body length, eight feet in width, or 11 feet in overall height,
designed for and occupied by no more than one family for living and sleeping
purposes that is not constructed to the standards of the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development, the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.,
and the Housing and Urban Development Zone Code 2 or the Uniform Building Code,
as amended, to the date of the unit’s construction or built to the standards of
any municipal building code.
   (C)   Permitted mobile homes. Only those mobile home parks existing at the
date this chapter becomes effective are permitted in the county. New mobile
home parks are not to be permitted.
   (D)   Expansions. Expansions to existing mobile home parks are permitted,
provided the expansion and any proposed changes to the existing park meet all
requirements of §
156.107(E) and all other applicable requirements and processes set out in this
chapter.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.106 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   (A)   Recreational vehicle defined. A self-contained driven or towed
portable unit not designed to be installed on a temporary or permanent
foundation, nor used for human occupancy as a residence, which includes: pickup
campers, chassis mounted motor homes, mini motor homes, park trailers,
recreational vans, pop-up tent/hard-top trailers, converted buses, or other
converted and chopped vehicles.
   (B)   Recreational vehicle park defined. A lot, block, or parcel of land, or
a site at least one acre in area containing facilities such as potable water,
liquid waste disposal facilities, electrical hook-ups, and recreation
facilities, and designed to accommodate overnight or longer-term parking of
three or more recreational vehicles.
   (C)   Interpretation and conflict. The developer of a recreational vehicle
park must comply with the requirements of this chapter and with those set out
in this section. Where the requirements of this section conflict with the
regulations set out in other sections of this chapter, or with any other county
ordinance, the more restrictive regulation shall apply in each case.
   (D)   Site conditions. The condition of soil, groundwater level, drainage,
and topography shall not create hazards to the property or to the health and
safety of the occupants. Recreational vehicle parks shall be in compliance with
all technical standards and requirements of this chapter, including, but not
limited to: water supply, water quality, liquid waste disposal, solid waste
disposal, and terrain management.
   (E)   Standards for recreational vehicle parks. In any district or zone in
which recreational vehicle parks are permitted, the following regulations and
minimum standards shall apply.
      (1)   Minimum park area and maximum density. Recreational vehicle parks
shall be a minimum of one acre in area and shall not exceed a maximum density
of ten recreational vehicle spaces per gross acre, including all dry camp
sites.
      (2)   Setbacks and separation distances. Setbacks and separation
distances in recreational vehicle parks shall be in accordance with the
following.
         (a)   The separation between recreational vehicles shall be a minimum
of 15 feet.
         (b)   The front and rear yard setbacks of each recreational vehicle
from a private internal road shall be at least 15 feet.
         (c)   The side yard setback of each recreational vehicle from a
private internal flanking street shall be a minimum of 15 feet.
         (d)   No recreational vehicle may be located closer than 25 feet to a
county road.
      (3)   Access to park. Direct vehicular access to the recreational vehicle
park shall be provided by means of an abutting, approved public county road or
street. The width and construction of the access streets or roads shall be
suitable for the vehicular traffic requirements of the properties served. Sole
vehicular access shall not be from an alley or laneway.
      (4)   Entrances and exits. Entrances and exits shall be designed for safe
and convenient movement of traffic into and out of the recreational vehicle
park, and to minimize marginal friction with free movement of traffic on
adjacent streets. All traffic into and out of the recreational vehicle park
shall be through such entrances and exits.
      (5)   Internal streets or roads. Streets or roads shall be provided
within recreational vehicle parks to furnish principal traffic ways for safe
and convenient access to all lots, and to facilities for common use by
recreational vehicle park residents. Such streets or roads shall be privately
owned, constructed, and maintained. The following provisions will apply to
internal streets or roads.
         (a)   No street or road within a recreational vehicle park will be
accepted for maintenance by the county. Such streets and roads shall remain the
responsibility of the owner(s) of the lands.
         (b)   Street alignment and gradient shall be properly designed and
adapted to the site topography, to the safe movement of the types and volumes
of traffic expected, and to satisfactorily control surface and groundwater.
         (c)   All streets or roads shall provide for the continuation of
appropriate projections of streets and roads in the surrounding areas, and
provide reasonable means of ingress and egress for surrounding tracts of land.
         (d)   Streets shall be extended, as topography permits, to the
boundaries of the recreational vehicle park to provide future connections with
adjoining unplatted lands.
         (e)   A sound, all-weather driving surface shall be provided and
maintained.
         (f)   All two lane streets or roads shall allow at least 20 feet free
width. Space for on-street parking shall not be taken from this width.
         (g)   Street widths shall be sufficient to permit free movement from
or to the stream of traffic on public streets or roads and no parking shall be
permitted that in any way interferes with such free movement.
         (h)   An internal system of pedestrian walkways shall be provided so
that residents can gain safe access to common facilities or services within the
recreational vehicle park or to public walkways on adjacent public county
streets or roads, all to the satisfaction of the County Planning Director.
      (6)   Parking spaces. Parking spaces shall be provided in sufficient
numbers to meet the needs of the residents and guests. At a minimum, two off-
street parking spaces shall be provided for each lot.
      (7)   Driveways.
         (a)   A driveway, either paved, graveled, or covered with similar
material, shall be provided on each recreational vehicle site.
         (b)   Driveways shall be a minimum width of ten feet.
         (c)   Driveways shall also be provided where necessary for convenient
access to collection points for refuse and other materials, and to common area
facilities established for the residents.
      (8)   Exterior lighting.
         (a)   The park perimeter must be adequately lighted. The overall
lighting plan must be included with plans submitted to the county for approval.
         (b)   All exterior lights shall be located and shielded so as to
prevent direct illumination of any contiguous lot. All exterior lighting shall
adhere to the requirements of the Night Sky Protection Act, NMSA §§ 74-12-
1 through 74-12-11.
      (9)   Potable water and liquid waste disposal. Each recreational vehicle
park shall provide and utilize an approved community water system and an
approved community liquid waste disposal system.
      (10)   Utility connections.
         (a)   All recreational vehicle parks shall provide individual water,
liquid waste, and electrical connections for each recreational vehicle space
unless water is available within 100 feet of each recreational vehicle space,
and there are at least two liquid waste dump facilities for every five acres,
or fraction thereof, of the park.
         (b)   Natural gas or liquid propane gas connections to individual lots
are prohibited.
      (11)   Utility easements. Utility easements shall be provided as required
by the various utility companies.
      (12)   Residential occupancy. No recreational vehicle and no recreational
vehicle space shall be used for any purpose other than residential occupancy.
      (13)   Expansion of existing recreational vehicle parks. Expansion of
existing recreational vehicle parks is permitted, provided the expansion and
any proposed changes to the existing park meet all applicable requirements of
this section and all other applicable requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.107 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   Any person subdividing land for use as a manufactured home park shall comply
with the following provisions.
   (A)   Purpose. The regulations, restrictions, and requirements of this
section are designed to promote orderly development of manufactured home parks
within the county, in keeping with the general purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   Definition. Manufactured home parks are included in the definition of
subdivision in this chapter and therefore subject to the regulations of this
chapter. Design standards for manufactured home parks are supplemental to the
subdivision regulations in this chapter, and other design standards as set
forth therein.
   (C)   Interpretation and conflict. The developer of a manufactured home park
must comply with the requirements of this chapter and with those set out in
this section. Where the requirements of this section conflict with the
regulations set out in other sections of this chapter, or with any other county
ordinance, the more restrictive regulation shall apply in each case.
   (D)   Site conditions. The condition of soil, groundwater level, drainage,
and topography shall not create hazards to the property or to the health and
safety of the occupants. Manufactured home parks shall be in compliance with
all technical standards and requirements of this chapter, including, but not
limited to: water supply; water quality; liquid waste disposal; solid waste
disposal; and terrain management.
   (E)   Standards for manufactured home parks. In any district or zone in
which manufactured homes are permitted, the following regulations and minimum
standards shall apply. For safety separations and water and liquid waste
disposal:
      (1)   Only one manufactured home and its accessory buildings or
structures shall be erected on each lot in the park;
      (2)   Lots in a manufactured home park utilizing community water and
liquid waste disposal systems shall be no less than 6,000 square feet in area;
      (3)   Lots in a manufactured home park having no community water and/or
liquid waste disposal systems shall be a minimum of two acres in area;
      (4)   The separation between manufactured homes and each of their
detached accessory buildings shall be a minimum of 15 feet;
      (5)   The separation between manufactured homes or manufactured home pads
shall be a minimum of 25 feet; and
      (6)   Lot numbering and street names of the manufactured home park shall
be approved by the County Planning Director.
   (F)   Access to park. Direct vehicular access to the manufactured home
subdivision shall be provided by means of an abutting, approved public county
road or street. The width and construction of the access streets or roads shall
be suitable for the vehicular traffic requirements of the properties served.
Sole vehicular access shall not be from an alley or laneway.
   (G)   Entrances and exits. Entrances and exits shall be designed for safe
and convenient movement of traffic into and out of the manufactured home park,
and to minimize marginal friction with free movement of traffic on adjacent
streets. All traffic into and out of the manufactured home park shall be
through such entrances and exits.
   (H)   Internal streets or roads. Streets or roads shall be provided within
manufactured home parks to furnish principal traffic ways for safe and
convenient access to all lots, and to facilities for common use by manufactured
home park residents. Such streets or roads shall be privately owned,
constructed, and maintained. The following provisions will apply to internal
streets or roads.
      (1)   (a)   No street or road within a manufactured home park will be
accepted for maintenance by the county.
         (b)   Such streets and roads shall remain the responsibility of the
owner(s) of the lands.
      (2)   Street alignment and gradient shall be properly designed and
adapted to the site topography, to the safe involvement of the types and
volumes of traffic expected, and to satisfactorily control surface and
groundwater.
      (3)   All streets or roads shall provide for the continuation of
appropriate projections of streets and roads in the surrounding areas, and
provide reasonable means of ingress and egress for surrounding tracts of land.
      (4)   Streets shall be extended, as topography permits, to the boundaries
of the manufactured home park to provide future connections with adjoining
unplatted lands.
      (5)   A sound, all-weather driving surface shall be provided and
maintained.
      (6)   All two-lane streets or roads shall allow at least 20 feet free
width. Space for on-street parking shall not be taken from this width.
      (7)   Street widths shall be sufficient to permit free movement from or
to the stream of traffic on public streets or roads, and no parking shall be
permitted that in any way interferes with such free movement.
      (8)   An internal system of pedestrian walkways shall be provided so that
residents can gain safe access to common facilities or services within the
manufactured home park or to public walkways on adjacent public county streets
or roads, all to the satisfaction of the County Planning Director.
   (I)   Parking spaces. Parking spaces shall be provided in sufficient numbers
to meet the needs of the residents and guests. At a minimum, two off-street
parking spaces shall be provided for each lot. Guest parking may be provided in
one or more convenient locations. A minimum of one guest space shall be
provided for each lot.
   (J)   Driveways. A manufactured home park shall provide a driveway, either
paved, graveled, or covered with similar material, on each lot. Driveways
serving each manufactured home lot shall be a minimum width of ten feet.
Driveways shall also be provided where necessary for convenient access to
collection points for refuse and other materials, and to common area facilities
established for the residents.
   (K)   Recreation/open space area. A minimum of 5% of the gross land area
covered by the manufactured home park shall be devoted to open space for
recreational purposes. The open space shall be centrally located.
   (L)   Exterior lighting. All exterior lights shall be located and shielded
so as to prevent direct illumination of any contiguous lot. All exterior
lighting shall adhere to the requirements of the Night Sky Protection Act, NMSA
§§ 74-12-1 through 74-12-11.
   (M)   Residential occupancy. No manufactured home, and no manufactured home
lot shall be used for any purpose other than residential occupancy.
(Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
156.999
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 156.120 CONSTRUCTION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Guarantees. The county is not, nor shall it become, the guarantor of
any improvements for proposed or approved subdivisions. All infrastructure and
other improvements are the sole responsibility of the subdivider.
   (B)   Improvement requirements.
      (1)   (a)   The subdivider shall install and construct such improvements,
if any, as are required by these regulations in the manner and to the design
standards provided in these regulations.
         (b)   Approval of the preliminary plat is authorization for the
subdivider to proceed with the minimum improvements required by these
regulations.
      (2)   Before the construction of any improvements or the submission of
any bond or other improvement guarantee, the subdivider shall furnish the
county with all plans necessary for the construction of such improvements.
These plans shall be reviewed by the County Planning Director and the County
Roads Superintendent, and, if in accordance with these regulations, shall be
approved by the county, allowing the subdivision development to proceed.
   (C)   Improvement agreement. The subdivider shall enter into a subdivision
improvement agreement with the county, as prescribed in §
156.193. This agreement shall constitute a binding contract between the
subdivider and the county, and shall contain those terms and conditions
designed to guarantee completion of improvements agreed to by the subdivider
and the county. Before any agreement is entered into, the subdivider shall
present evidence of financial capability to complete the improvements.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.121 ROAD DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Construction schedule. Roads within a subdivision shall be constructed
only on a schedule approved by the Board of County Commissioners. In approving
or disapproving a subdivider’s road construction schedule, the Board of County
Commissioners shall consider:
      (1)   The proposed use of the subdivision;
      (2)   The period of time before the roads will receive substantial use;
      (3)   The period of time before construction of homes will begin on the
portion of the subdivision serviced by the road;
      (4)   The county regulations governing phased development; and
      (5)   The needs of prospective purchasers, lessees, and other persons
acquiring an interest in subdivided land in viewing the land within the
subdivision.
   (B)   Safety. All proposed roads shall conform to minimum county safety
standards.
   (C)   Demonstration of use/access.
      (1)   The Board of County Commissioners shall not approve the grading or
construction of roads unless and until the subdivider can reasonably
demonstrate that the roads to be constructed will receive use, and that the
roads are necessary to provide access to parcels or improvements, within 24
months after the date of construction of the road.
      (2)   It is unlawful for the subdivider to grade or otherwise commence
construction of roads unless the construction conforms to the schedule of road
development approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.122 IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Assurance. In order for the county to be assured of the completion of
required improvements, the subdivider shall agree to either:
      (1)   Complete installation of the required improvements before approval
of the final plat; or
      (2)   Assure construction of required improvements after final plat
approval.
   (B)   Alternatives.
      (1)   If the subdivider wishes to submit the final plat for review,
approval, and recording before completion of required improvements, the
subdivider shall post a financial guarantee with the county.
      (2)   (a)   The guarantee shall be not less than 125% of the estimated
cost of the required improvements.
         (b)   This guarantee may be in the form of a surety bond, letter of
credit, cashier’s check, escrow deposit, certificate of deposit, a blanket
encumbrance with a trust account, or other method acceptable to the county.
      (3)   The subdivider shall enter into an agreement to construct
subdivision improvements (§
156.193) with the county, which shall contain all required improvements on-site
and external to the subdivision, and these documents must be filed and stored
in the vault of the County Treasurer.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
APPEALS
§ 156.135 WHO MAY APPEAL.
   (A)   County Planning Director.
      (1)   Any person who is adversely affected by a decision of the County
Planning Director regarding a subdivision plat may appeal to the Board of
County Commissioners within 30 days after the date of the action of the County
Planning Director.
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners shall hear the appeal and render
a decision within 30 days after receiving the notice of appeal.
   (B)   Board of County Commissioners. Any person who is adversely affected by
a decision of the Board of County Commissioners in approving or disapproving a
subdivision plat may appeal to the District Court of the county in which the
subdivision is located within 30 days after the date of the action of the
Board.
   (C)   Adversely affected persons. For the purposes of this section, a person
who is ADVERSELY AFFECTED shall mean:
      (1)   The applicant, in the event that any decision or condition imposed
is unacceptable; or
      (2)   Any other landowner in the vicinity of the proposed subdivision who
can demonstrate that the health or safety of the present or future occupants of
that landowner’s property will be threatened by the approval and construction
of the subdivision.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.136 APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   The appeal shall consist of a whole record review, and the reviewing
authority, whether it is the Board of County Commissioners or the District
Court, shall set aside the determination previously made, if it is found to be:
      (1)   Arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion;
      (2)   Not supported by substantial evidence; or
      (3)   Otherwise not in accordance with law.
   (B)   The appeal shall be perfected by filing a written notice of appeal, as
prescribed in §
156.191, which sets forth the specific portion or portions of the decision
being appealed and payment of the required fee. A copy of the decision or order
being appealed shall be attached to the notice of appeal.
   (C)   Any party to the action in District Court shall have full appellate
rights in accordance with the laws of the state and the rules of appellate
procedure for the state.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 156.150 WATER SUPPLY GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Water conservation measures. The following water conservation measures
are identified for housing units in all subdivisions.
      (1)   All new construction shall conform to the requirements of the
administrative building and plumbing codes at the time of construction.
      (2)   Low water use landscaping techniques applying the principles of
xeriscaping are encouraged.
      (3)   The county encourages the installation of water-saving fixtures in
all new residential and non-residential buildings. Water-saving fixtures
include low-flush toilets, low-flow showerheads, low-flow faucets, water-saving
dishwashers and clothes washers, and installation of hot water pumps.
      (4)   The county encourages the metering of all community water system
wells, and service connections and readings, reported to the water system
management at monthly intervals.
      (5)   The installation of pressure reducing valves on service connections
is encouraged where water pressure at the customer service connection exceeds
80 pounds per square inch (psi).
   (B)   Quantification of annual water requirements. The following procedures
shall be used to quantify the maximum annual water requirements for all
subdivisions.
      (1)   The maximum annual water requirement for both indoor and outdoor
purposes, for each parcel in a residential subdivision, shall be one-half acre-
feet per year, unless a detailed water demand analysis approved by the State
Engineer’s office justifies the use of a different figure. The total annual
water requirement for the subdivision in acre-feet per year is computed by
multiplying the number of parcels by one-half.
      (2)   The subdivider may, at his or her option, prepare a detailed water
demand analysis using the step-by-step computational procedure presented in the
State Engineer’s Technical Report 48, entitled “Water Conservation and
Quantification of Water Demands in Subdivisions.”
      (3)   A detailed water demand analysis shall be prepared for all non-
residential subdivisions and all water uses not directly related to residential
uses within a mixed development subdivision. Annual water requirements shall be
estimated using the State Engineer’s Technical Report 48, cited in division (B)
(2) above.
      (4)   The total water demand for a subdivision shall include water
requirements for firefighting (structural fires and wild fires) and shall
account for distribution system losses.
   (C)   Final plat approval requirements. Before approving the final plat for
a subdivision containing 20 or more parcels, any one of which is two acres or
less in size, the Board of County Commissioners may require that the subdivider
provide a copy of a permit obtained from the State Engineer, Issued pursuant to
NMSA §§ 72-5-1, 72-5-23, and 72-5-24, for the subdivision water use; or
pursuant to NMSA § 72-12-3 or 72-12-7 if the subdivision is located within a
declared undergroundwater basin. In acting on the permit application, the State
Engineer shall determine whether the amount of water permitted is sufficient in
quantity to fulfill the maximum annual water requirements of the subdivision,
including water for indoor and outdoor domestic uses.
   (D)   Community water requirements.
      (1)   A community water system shall be required for all subdivisions
which create more than 25 lots, any one of which is three and one-half acres or
less in area. For all subdivisions in which all lots created are greater than
three and one-half in area, community water systems shall not be required
except under the conditions set out in division (D)(2) below.
      (2)   A community water system shall be required for all other
subdivisions containing six or more parcels where groundwater would be supplied
from geologic formations where wells have been determined to produce at a rate
of two gallons per minute or less, or where available information suggests the
likelihood of low yielding wells. In lieu of a community water system, the
developer shall provide alternative means of supplying potable water to each
lot in sufficient quantities to meet the maximum annual water requirements of
each lot, and shall fully disclose the means and methods of providing such
water supply. Acceptable alternative means of supplying potable water shall
include individual wells drilled by the developer, or other means of water
delivery, combined with storage systems supplied by the developer for each lot.
Such storage systems shall be capable of storing an amount of water equal to
twice the average daily water consumption for the household, as computed in
accordance with division (B)(1) above, and must be capable of delivering water
at a minimum rate of two gallons per minute.
      (3)   If water is to be supplied from a community water system, the
subdivider shall submit a plat of the proposed subdivision, and preliminary
plans for the water production, storage, and distribution facilities prepared
by or under the supervision of a registered professional engineer. The site
plans shall show the topography, parcel boundaries, streets, wells, and water
storage and distribution system, including hydrants. The size or capacity of
the water system components shall also be indicated on the site plans.
Preliminary well plans shall include casing diameter, total depth, screened
interval, and proposed pump setting.
      (4)   Residential service connections to community water systems shall be
required where such systems have been designed and constructed for use within
the subdivision.
      (5)   If a community water system is proposed or required, the developer
should consult with the State Public Utilities Commission regarding the
applicability of the Public Utility Act, being NMSA §§ 62-3-1 et seq., to that
community water system.
   (E)   Water availability assessment requirements.
      (1)   If the source of water supply will be an existing community water
system or municipal water system, the subdivider shall submit a water
availability assessment containing the following information:
         (a)   Name of the utility proposed as the source of supply;
         (b)   Documentation from the utility that they are ready, willing, and
able to provide the maximum annual water requirements for the subdivision. For
subdivisions with more than six lots, such documentation may include
information meeting the requirements of division (E)(3) below, as well as
additional information demonstrating system capabilities and existing and
proposed infrastructure improvements that may be required to furnish water to
the subdivision in sufficient quantity to fulfill the maximum annual water
requirements of the subdivision, including water for indoor and outdoor uses.
      (2)   If the subdivider proposed that the source of water shall be
individual domestic wells or shared wells to be approved by the State Engineer
pursuant to NMSA § 72-12-1, the subdivider shall submit a water availability
assessment containing the following information:
         (a)   At least one well log from an on-site well or from an existing
nearby well completed in geologic conditions representative of the conditions
within the proposed subdivision;
         (b)   A description of the water bearing formation including a
statement of the maximum and minimum depths to water in the subdivision and the
basis for these statements;
         (c)   A statement of the estimated yield of wells in gallons per
minute based upon well logs from existing nearby wells; and
         (d)   Any additional information which is required by the State
Engineer’s office that will enable it to determine whether or not the
subdivider can furnish water in sufficient quantity to fulfill the maximum
annual water requirements of the subdivision, including water for indoor and
outdoor uses, and whether the subdivider can fulfill the proposals in his or
her disclosure statement concerning water, excepting water quality. For
subdivisions containing more than six lots, in locations which the State
Engineer has determined that geohydrologic conditions are such that the aquifer
has not been demonstrated to be capable of furnishing water in sufficient
quantity to fulfill the maximum annual water requirements of the subdivision,
such additional information may include a geohydrologic report conforming to
the requirements of division (E)(3) below.
      (3)   For new community water systems, the subdivider shall submit a
water supply plan and geohydrologic report, prepared and sealed by a
professional engineer, licensed to practice in the state, which meets the
following requirements.
         (a)   Geohydrologic reports shall demonstrate that groundwater
sufficient to meet the maximum annual water requirement of the subdivision is
physically able and can be practically recovered to sustain the development for
a continuous period of 40 years. These analyses shall take into account the
production of existing wells and shall demonstrate that the subdivision wells,
as proposed or as designed, will be capable of producing the full annual demand
for at least 40 years.
         (b)   The subdivider shall drill sufficient exploratory wells within
the boundaries of the proposed subdivision to adequately characterize the
aquifer, unless the subdivider can demonstrate that existing wells in the area
are representative of general aquifer conditions within the subdivision. Where
existing wells are not adequate to demonstrate aquifer conditions, aquifer
parameters required to demonstrate availability of water should be obtained
from aquifer tests, performed on-site, which are adequate for predicting long-
term water availability or from tests conducted on nearby wells. Alternatively,
tests can be conducted on nearby off-site wells if the subdivider can
demonstrate that these wells are representative of general aquifer conditions
within the subdivision.
         (c)   The assessment shall include a calculated 40-year schedule of
effects on the proposed subdivision’s production well(s) that may result from
existing demands and from the increase of groundwater withdrawals for the
subdivision. Analyses shall be performed to assess whether future water level
declines will be within the limits of allowable draw down in the subdivision
production wells, as provided in division (E)(3)(d) below. Predicted draw downs
shall be calculated in a conservative manner (which estimates maximum draw
down). These calculations shall include estimates of future water uses.
         (d)   The subdivider shall calculate the lowest practical pumping
water level in the proposed subdivision pumping wells by any of the following
methods as appropriate, provided there shall be no presumption made as to
additional available water below the bottom of the proposed production well,
and further provided that the total available draw down shall be reduced by a
factor of 20% as a margin of safety to account for seasonal fluctuations,
drought allowance, reduction of well efficiency over time, and peak production
requirements:
            1.   By using the results of acceptable on-site aquifer pump tests,
the lowest allowable pumping level may be the lowest water level reached during
the test;
            2.   By setting the level at the top of the uppermost screened
interval;
            3.   In wells completed in fractured aquifers, the lowest practical
pumping water level may be above the top of the fracture zone; and
            4.   In wells completed in alluvial aquifers, the lowest practical
pumping water level may be defined by a maximum allowable draw down equal to
70% of the initial water column.
         (e)   1.   The geohrydrologic report should present all hydrologic
information pertinent to the study area, including that available from past
geohydrologic studies. All sources of information used in the report should be
identified, including basic data collected by the consultant who prepared the
report.
            2.   The report shall contain maps and cross-sections showing
geology, depth to the water bearing formation, water level contours, and
estimated thickness of saturation in the aquifer. Basic data for the immediate
area of the subdivision must be current, with the date of collection noted and
the location identified on the map.
            3.   The report on the investigation should be in the format of a
technical narrative with spreadsheets, tables, graphs, maps, and cross-sections
included.
   (F)   Fire protection.
      (1)   Requirement for provision of fire protection.
         (a)   For all subdivisions with new community water systems, and for
all subdivisions utilizing an existing community water system in which
infrastructure improvements are proposed to be designed and constructed for use
by the subdivision, the subdivider shall provide water for firefighting, and
facilities for storage and distribution.
         (b)   The subdivider shall provide water for firefighting and
facilities for storage, distribution, and delivery of fire flows for all non-
residential subdivisions.
      (2)   Standards for fire protection. The subdivider’s fire protection
facilities shall conform to the guidelines provided by the Insurance Services
Office (ISO) and to applicable county fire regulations, and shall meet the
following minimum requirements:
         (a)   1.   The required storage for fire protection shall equal 60,000
gallons, or other required minimum specified by ISO.
            2.   Amounts deliverable by tanker, as estimated by the local fire
authority, may be included in the fire protection plan, but shall not be
credited towards the ISO storage requirement.
         (b)   The fire protection system shall be capable of delivering a
minimum of 500 gallons per minute to the fire at a residual pressure of 20
pounds per square inch, or as required by ISO.
         (c)   Fire hydrant spacing shall not exceed a distance of 1,000 feet
measured along the roadway, and individual hydrants shall not be located more
than 500 feet from each parcel.
      (3)   Fire protection plan.
         (a)   A fire protection plan shall be a condition of preliminary plat
approval for all non-residential subdivisions, subdivisions with community
water systems, final plat approval for summary review subdivisions with
community water systems, and for all subdivisions containing 100 lots or more.
         (b)   For all subdivisions with fire protection, the subdivider shall
submit a plat of the proposed subdivision, preliminary plans of the proposed
water supply, storage and distribution system, and calculations demonstrating
that the proposed fire protection facilities will meet the requirements of
these guidelines, prepared by or under the supervision of a registered
professional engineer.
         (c)   For all subdivisions to be supplied by existing utilities, the
letter of intent from the utility to provide water shall specify fire flows and
pressures that will be provided, and fire flow storage that may be apportioned
to the subdivision.
         (d)   If firefighting services are available, the subdivider shall
provide a letter from the local fire authority having jurisdiction which
states:
            1.   Rate in gallons per minute that water may be delivered to the
fire by tanker service from the fire authority, if applicable; and
            2.   Distance and anticipated time of travel to the fire.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.151 GENERAL ROAD STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lots.
      (1)   All residential lots shall be situated to meet all state and local
governmental regulations regarding access.
      (2)   Legal access to a public street within the subdivision shall be
provided to all lots.
      (3)   Lots with double frontage shall be avoided, if possible, however,
all lots with double frontage shall identify the intended front of the lots for
driveway and address purposes all to the satisfaction of the County Planning
Director.
   (B)   Driveways.
      (1)   Driveways shall operate at grade intersections and shall be
designed to provide for adequate sight distance, provide acceptable levels of
traffic operations, and provide control and geometrics that are consistent with
the intensity of use of the driveway and the intended function of the roadway.
      (2)   Common or two-way traffic private driveways shall be encouraged to
the maximum extent possible.
      (3)   Driveways accessing onto a state highway shall obtain a permit for
access from the Transportation Department District Office.
      (4)   Driveways shall not be located less than 60 feet from an
intersection, but where a 60-foot separation is not possible, driveways shall
be located as far as physically possible from an intersection. This shall be to
the satisfaction of the County Planning Director and the County Roads
Superintendent.
      (5)   A driveway permit approved by the County Road Superintendent is
required for all driveways accessing existing and proposed county roads.
   (C)   Roads, streets, and alleys.
      (1)   All subdivisions containing lots less than three and one-half acres
shall be required to provide finished roads within the interior of the
subdivision. FINISHED ROADS, for the purpose of this chapter, shall mean roads
surfaced with chip seal or asphalt concrete surfacing, and shall comply with an
applicable provisions of this division (C) and/or otherwise addressed in this
chapter.
      (2)   All roads within a subdivision shall have unobstructed legal access
to a county or state maintained road.
      (3)   Roads linking a subdivision to a county or state maintained road
must be at least as wide as the widest road required within the subdivision and
that width must be continuous from the subdivision to the existing county
maintained road, and must be tied to a maintenance agreement approved by the
county for the road.
      (4)   The Commission may require that the layout of principal roads
within the subdivision be designed to join to principal existing streets in
adjoining areas or that the layout of the roads be designed to serve adjoining
areas. The Commission may also require that the width of the right-of-way in a
subdivision be sufficient to ensure that future development needs will not be
limited by too narrow of rights-of-way with the specific understanding that in
no instance shall a Commission requirement for design of road layout be the
basis for requiring the subdivider to construct roads in the subdivision to any
higher standard than those which would be constructed if no such continuation
of the principal streets were required.
      (5)   Centerlines of offset streets entering onto local streets shall not
be less than 125 feet apart.
      (6)   Centerlines of offset streets entering onto collector or arterial
streets shall not be less than 200 feet apart.
      (7)   Half streets along perimeters of subdivisions shall not be allowed.
      (8)   Streets shall be laid out to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles, and in no case shall streets intersect at angles of less than 75
degrees.
      (9)   All dead-end streets shall terminate in a cul-de-sac having a
minimum radius of 50 feet of right-of-way.
      (10)   The natural course of waterways, arroyos and other drainage areas
will not be altered unless approved as part of a terrain management plan.
      (11)   If asphalt surfaces are used, pavement designs shall be performed
by a registered professional engineer licensed to practice in the state. The
engineer shall have demonstrated expertise in the design and analysis of rigid
and/or flexible roadway pavements. Pavement designs shall be based on the
edition of the State Highway and Transportation Department’s “Structural Design
Guide for Flexible Pavement’s Bulletins” current at the time of submittal of
the subdivision. Other references, such as the edition of the “ASHTO Interim
Guide for Design of Pavement Structures” current at the time of submission of
the subdivision may be used. All pavement design documents shall be noted in
the design notes. All designs shall be based on a minimum ten-year life period.
At the county’s discretion, a road impact analysis may be required to determine
the need for a higher design standard for any given road in a subdivision.
      (12)   Pavement design submittals shall not be limited to roads with
asphalted wearing surfaces. An analysis of erosion and degradation shall be
provided with roadway sections not stabilized using an asphalted or chip-seal,
or surface course, surfaces. The minimum thickness for a pavement structure
shall be two inches plant mixed bituminous pavement overlying four inches of
base material, overlying six inches of prepared subgrade.
      (13)   All construction within the right-of-way shall be done in
accordance with all applicable provisions of the county construction
specifications for subdivision roads as reflected in §
156.192 and its amendments in effect at the time of submittal of a subdivision.
A deviation from the standards will be allowed only when testing of the
materials and/or methods used shows the deviation to be equal or greater in
quality to that of the standard specifications. The specifications in §
156.192 may be revised by the Board of County Commissioners without amending
these regulations.
      (14)   In situations where no county design standard applies, the State
Highway and Transportation Department Standards shall apply.
   (D)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be required along all interior streets, and along
all exterior roads bounding the subdivision within the county.
      (2)   Required sidewalks shall have a minimum width of five feet and be
four inches in thickness. Driveway crossing shall be six inches in thickness.
      (3)   (a)   Street lights, power poles, fire hydrants, street signs, and
other types of obstructions shall not be permitted on the sidewalks.
         (b)   If street obstructions are in the way of proposed sidewalks,
these obstructions shall be relocated prior to the construction of sidewalks at
the expense of the subdivider, unless otherwise agreed between the Board of
County Commissioners and the subdivider, or between utility companies or other
agencies and the subdivider.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.152 WATER QUALITY AND LIQUID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Water quality documentation. For a subdivider to document conformance
with the water quality requirements of the State Environment Department, a
water quality documentation package shall accompany the preliminary plat
submittal.
      (1)   The water quality documentation package shall:
         (a)   State the subdivider’s name and mailing address;
         (b)   State the date the package was completed;
         (c)   State the subdivider’s proposal for meeting the water quality
requirements as set forth by the State Environment Department from time to
time;
         (d)   Be accompanied by a copy of the subdivider’s disclosure
statement on water quality;
         (e)   Be accompanied by the information as required by the State
Environment Department from time to time; and
         (f)   Be accompanied by other relevant information as may be necessary
for the determination of compliance with the water quality requirements of the
State Environment Department from time to time.
      (2)   Where a private water supply system is proposed, the following
information shall be submitted as part of the water quality documentation
package:
         (a)   A water quality analysis of a representative water sample for
aluminum, antimony, arsenic, barium, beryllium, cadmium, calcium, chloride,
chromium, copper, cyanide, fluoride, iron, lead, manganese, mercury, nickel,
nitrate, nitrite, selenium, silver, sodium, sulfate thallium, zinc, alkalinity,
color, foaming agents, hardness, odor, pH, total dissolved solids, and
turbidity;
         (b)   For areas where contamination of the proposed source water has
been documented, a water quality analysis of a representative water sample for
other water quality parameters may be required;
         (c)   The location and description of the source of water sampled for
the water quality analysis; and
         (d)   1.   Preliminary plans for the private water supply system if
the system will serve more than one connection; and
            2.   Maps identifying and showing the location of all identifiable
potential sources of contamination and the floodplain of all watercourses, and
surface bodies of water within the subdivision and within 500 feet of the
proposed subdivision.
      (3)   If a new public water supply system is proposed, the following
information shall be submitted as part of the water quality documentation
package:
         (a)   A water quality analysis of a representative water sample for
aluminum, antimony, arsenic, barium, beryllium, cadmium, calcium, chloride,
chromium, copper, cyanide, fluoride, iron, lead, manganese, mercury, nickel,
nitrate, nitrite, selenium, silver, sodium, sulfate thallium, zinc, alkalinity,
color, foaming agents, hardness, odor, pH, total dissolved solids, and
turbidity;
         (b)   For areas where contamination of the proposed source water has
been documented, a water quality analysis of a representative water sample for
other water quality parameters may be required;
         (c)   The location and description of the source of water sampled for
the water quality analysis;
         (d)   Preliminary plans for the proposed public water supply system;
and
         (e)   Maps identifying and showing the location of all identifiable
potential sources of contamination and the floodplain of all watercourses and
surface bodies of water within 1,000 feet of the proposed water supply system
source.
      (4)   If a connection to and extension of an existing public water supply
system is proposed, the following information shall be submitted as part of the
water quality documentation package:
         (a)   A water quality analysis of a representative water sample for
alkalinity, aluminum, calcium, chloride, color, copper, foaming agents,
hardness, iron, manganese, odor, pH, silver, sodium, sulfate, total dissolved
solids, turbidity, and zinc;
         (b)   A statement of availability of water service signed by an
official of the existing public water supply system; and
         (c)   An engineer’s report and preliminary plans for the proposed
extensions to the existing water system.
      (5)   Documentation of approval for the construction or modification of a
public water supply system from the State Environment Department will be
required for final plat approval.
   (B)   Water quality requirements. Conformance with the water quality
requirements of the State Environment Department is required for preliminary
plat approval for all types of subdivisions.
      (1)   The level of a contaminant in water that is delivered to any user
of a public or private water system shall not exceed the maximum contaminant
level (MCL) for any of the contaminants listed in the table below.
Primary (Health Related) Contaminants
Contaminant                 MCL        Contaminant                 MCL
Inorganic (IOC)                        Tritium                     2,000 pCi/l
Antimony                    0.006 mg/l Microbiology
Arsenic                     0.05 mg/l  Giardia Iambia(d)           TT(e)
Asbestos                    7 MFL(a)   Legionella(d)               TT(e)
Barium                      2 mg/l     Standard Plate Count(d)     TT(e)
Beryllium                   0.004 mg/l Total Coliforms             Absent
Cadmium                     0.005 mg/l Turbidity(d)                PS(f)
Chromium (total)            0.1 mg/l   Viruses(d)                  TT(e)
Copper                      1.3 mg/l   Disinfection Byproduct
Cyanide                     0.2 mg/l   Total trihalomethanes       0.10 mg/l
Flouride                    4.0 mg/l   Volatile Organic (VOC)
Lead                        0.015 mg/l Benzene                     0.005 mg/l
Mercury (inorganic)         0.002 mg/l Carbon tetrachloride        0.005 mg/l
Nickel                      0.1 mg/l   Dibromochioropropane        0.0002 mg/l
Nizrate (as N)              10 mg/l    0-dichlorobezene            0.06 mg/l
Nirtrite (as N)             1 mg/l     p-dichloorobenzene          0.075 mg/l
Nitrate + Nitrite (both as  10 mg/l    1, 2-dichloroethane         0.005 mg/l
N)
Selenium                    0.05 mg/l  cis-1, 2-dichloroethylene   0.07 mg/l
Thallium                    0.002 mg/l trans-1, 2-dichloroethylene 0.1 mg/l
Radionuclide                           Dichloromethane             0.005
Gross alpha particle(b) mg/ 15 pCi/l   1, 2-dichloropane           0.005 mg/l
activity
Radium -226 and -227(c)     5 Ci/l     Ethlybenzene                0.7 mg/l
Strontium 90                8 Ci/l     Ethylene dibromide          0.00005 mg/l
Monochlorobenzene           0.1 mg/l   Dinoseb                     0.007 mg
Styrene                     0.1 mg/l   Diqual                      0.02 mg/l
Tetrachloroethylene         0.005 mg/l Endothall                   0.1 mg/l
Toluene                     1 mg/l     Endrin                      0.002 mg/l
1, 2, 4-trichlorobenzene    0.07 mg/l  Glyphosate                  0.7 mg/l
1, 1, 1-trichlroethan       0.005 mg/l Heptachlor                  0.0004 mg/l
Trichloroethylene           0.005 mg/l Heptachlor epoxide          0.0002 mg/l
Vinyl chloride              0.002 mg/l Hexachlorobenzene           0.001 mg/l
Xylenes (total)             10 mg/l    Hexachlorocyclopentadiene   0.05 mg/l
Synthetic Organic (SOC)                Lindane                     0.002 mg/l
Alachor                     0.002 mg/l Methoxychlor                0.04 mg/l
Atrazine                    0.003 mg/l Oxymyl (vydate)             0.2 mg/l
Benzo [a]pyrene             0.002 mg/l Pentachlorophenol           0.001 mg/l
Carbofuran                  0.04 mg/l  Picloram                    0.5 mg/l
Chlorodane                  0.002      Polychlorinated             0.0005 mg/l
2, 4-D                      0.07 mg/l  Simazine                    0.004 mg/l
Dalapon                     0.2 mg/l   2, 3, 7, 8-TCCD (Dioxin)    3x10-8 mg
Di(2-ethylhexyl) adipate    0.4 mg/l   Toxaphene                   0.003 mg/l
Di(2-ethylhexyl) phihalate  0.006 mg/l 2, 4, 5-TP                  0.05 mg/l
Notes to Table:
(a)   Million fibers longer than 10 micro “m” per liter
(b)   Gross alpha particle activity including radium -226 but excluding radon
and uranium
(c)   Combined radium -226 and radium -227
(d)   For systems using surface water
(e)   Treatment technique (filtration and disinfection) required
(f)   Performance Standard 0.5 NTU to 1.0 NTU
 
      (2)   The level of a contaminant in water which is delivered to any user
of a public or private water supply system should not exceed secondary maximum
contaminant level (SMCL) for any of the contaminants listed in the table below.
If the level for any of the contaminants listed in the table below exceeds the
SMCL, the subdivider must state in the disclosure statement on water quality
the name of the contaminant exceeded, the contaminant level, the SMCL of the
contaminant, the expected adverse effects of the contaminant for domestic water
use, and the recommended treatment method to reduce the contaminant level to or
below the SMCL.
Secondary (Esthetic Related) Contaminants
Contaminant SMCL Contaminant SMCL
Secondary (Esthetic Related) Contaminants
Contaminant    SMCL             Contaminant SMCL
Aluminum       0.05 to 0.2 mg/l Manganese   0.05 mg/l
Chloride       250 mg/l         Odor        3 TON
Color          15 CU            pH          6.5 to 8.5
Copper         1.0 mg/l         Silver      0.1 mg/l
Corrosivity    Non-corrosive    Sodium      100 mg/l(a)
Fluoride       2.0 mg/l         Sulfate     250 mg/l
Foaming agents 0.5 mg/l         TDS         500 mg/l
Hardness       250 mg/l         Turbidity   5 NTU
Iron           0.3 mg/l         Zinc        5 mg/l
Notes to Table:
(a)   Sodium concentration exceeding 20 mg/l must be noted in the disclosure
statement
 
      (3)   A water supply source shall not be located at less than the setback
distances shown in the table below.
Setback Distances for Water Supply Sources
Potential Source of Public Water Supply System Private Water Supply System
Contamination
                   Required Minimum Setback Distance (ft.)
Setback Distances for Water Supply Sources
Potential Source of     Public Water Supply System Private Water Supply System
Contamination
                       Required Minimum Setback Distance (ft.)
Community liquid waste  -                          300
disposal
Community liquid waste  300                        150
treatment system
Floodplain              Outside                    Outside
Individual liquid waste 200                        100
disposal system
Individual liquid waste 100                        50
treatment system
Other sewers            100                        50
Watertight sewers       50                         25
 
      (4)   (a)   The disclosure statement for the subdivision shall contain a
statement describing the quality of water available for domestic use within the
subdivision.
         (b)   Such statement will describe, in laymen’s terms, water quality
with respect to taste, discoloration of clothes, irritation to skin, odor, and
degree of hardness of water.
   (C)   Liquid waste disposal documentation.
      (1)   For a subdivider to document conformance with the liquid waste
disposal requirements of the State Environment Department and the State
Subdivision Act, being NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq., a liquid waste disposal
documentation package shall accompany the preliminary plat submittal.
         (a)   The liquid waste disposal documentation shall:
            1.   State the subdivider’s name and mailing address;
            2.   State the date the package was completed;
            3.   State the subdivider’s proposal for meeting the liquid waste
disposal requirements of the State Environment Department;
            4.   Be accompanied by a copy of the subdivider’s disclosure
statement on liquid waste disposal;
            5.   Be accompanied by the information listed in divisions (C)(2),
(C)(3), and (C)(4) below as applicable to the proposal; and
            6.   Be accompanied by other relevant information required by the
State Environment Department.
         (b)   Documentation of approval for the discharge from a community
liquid waste system from the State Environment Department will be required for
final plat approval.
      (2)   If the subdivider proposes a new community liquid waste system, the
following information shall be submitted as part of the liquid waste disposal
documentation package:
         (a)   An engineer’s report and preliminary plans for the proposed
liquid waste system;
         (b)   Maps showing the location of all water supply sources and the
floodplain of all watercourses and surface bodies of water within 1,000 feet of
the proposed liquid waste treatment and disposal site; and
         (c)   Documentation of the filing of a notice of intent to discharge
with the State Environment Department in accordance with the Water Quality
Control Commission Regulations.
      (3)   If the subdivider proposes a liquid waste disposal system by
connection to an extension of an existing community liquid waste system, the
following information shall be submitted as part of the liquid waste disposal
documentation package:
         (a)   A statement of availability of liquid waste service signed by an
official of the existing liquid waste system; and
         (b)   An engineer’s report and preliminary plans for the proposed
extension to the existing liquid waste system.
      (4)   If the subdivider proposes individual liquid waste systems, the
following information shall be submitted as part of the liquid waste disposal
documentation package:
         (a)   A soils investigation report (soil survey, soil borings, and
soil tests) defining soil depth to bedrock, seasonal high water groundwater
table or other limiting soil layer, and percolation rate for the soils present
within the proposed subdivision;
         (b)   Maps showing the location of all water supply sources and the
floodplain of all water courses and surface bodies of water within the proposed
subdivision, and within 500 feet of the proposed subdivision boundaries;
         (c)   A liquid waste system feasibility map, superimposed on the
subdivision plat, delimiting the areas of suitable, limited, and prohibitive
soil categories; and
         (d)   Preliminary plans for the individual liquid waste systems if a
system will serve more than one connection.
   (D)   Liquid waste disposal requirements.
      (1)   A community liquid waste system shall be required for all
subdivisions which create more than 25 lots, any one of which is three and one-
half acres or less in area.
      (2)   A community liquid waste system shall be permitted, designed, and
constructed by the time of first occupancy within the subdivision to comply
with the Water Quality Control Commission Regulations; and operated,
maintained, and expanded as necessary to ensure that the system will comply
with the Water Quality Control Commission regulations.
   (E)   Individual liquid waste systems.
      (1)   Individual liquid waste systems shall be located, installed,
operated, and maintained in a manner which will not cause a hazard to public
health or degrade any body of water.
      (2)   Individual liquid waste systems shall not be installed:
         (a)   Where an existing community liquid waste system has been
designed and constructed for use within the subdivision;
         (b)   In subdivisions where any lot is less than two acres in area;
         (c)   In prohibitive soils, as determined by the information to be
submitted in accordance with division (C)(4) above;
         (d)   Consisting of privies (outhouses) or cesspools; or
         (e)   Consisting of holding tanks.
   (F)   Disclosure statement. The disclosure statement for the subdivision
shall contain a description of the means of liquid waste disposal for the
subdivision.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.153 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Documentation package. For a subdivider to document conformance with
the solid waste disposal requirements of these guidelines and the State
Subdivision Act, a solid waste disposal documentation package shall accompany
the preliminary plat submittal. A solid waste documentation package shall:
      (1)   State the subdivider’s name and mailing address;
      (2)   State the date the package was completed;
      (3)   State the subdivider’s proposal for meeting the solid waste
disposal requirements for these guidelines or any other requirements for solid
waste disposal that may be adopted by law;
      (4)   Be accompanied by a copy of the subdivider’s disclosure statement
on solid waste disposal; and
      (5)   Be accompanied by other relevant information as may be necessary
for determination of compliance with the solid waste disposal requirements of
these guidelines.
   (B)   Solid waste disposal requirements. Conformance with the solid waste
disposal requirements of this section is required for preliminary plat
approval. SOLID WASTE means any garbage, rubbish, or other discarded material,
which results from residential, commercial, institutional, industrial, or
recreational activities.
      (1)   The subdivider shall require, in any agreement of purchase and sale
or in the restrictive covenants, if any, that a solid waste collection system
to collect and transport solid wastes to the disposal facility be used by
residents of the subdivision.
      (2)   The disclosure statement for the subdivision shall contain a
description of the means of solid waste disposal for the subdivision.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.154 TERRAIN MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COVER DENSITY. The estimated percentage of canopy and basal cover for
each vegetative type; CANOPY COVER being the estimated percentage of trees and
shrubs that would shade the ground at midday and BASAL COVER being the
percentage of grasses, rocks, litter, and desert pavement in direct contact
with the ground.
      DRAINAGE CHANNEL. Any depression into which stormwater flows along a
defined course.
      EROSION. Soil movement due to wind or water.
      EROSION CONTROL STRUCTURE. Any human-made device for preventing or
controlling erosion.
      FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from
any source.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
      FLOOD FRINGE. The area between the floodway and the 100-year floodplain
boundaries.
      LOCAL DISTRICT. Any soil and water conservation district within the
county in which the proposed subdivision is located.
      SEDIMENT. Any soil or other surface material transported by wind or
surface water as a product of erosion.
      SOIL SURVEY. A national cooperative soil survey conducted by the USDA,
Natural Resources Conservation Service in cooperation with the state
agricultural experiment station and other federal and state agencies, or any
other survey containing information of comparable quality and detail following
the national standards for an Order 2 survey approved by the local district.
      TERRAIN MANAGEMENT. The control of floods, drainage, and erosion, and
measures required for adapting proposed development to existing soil
characteristics and topography.
      WATERCOURSE. Any river, creek, spring, stream, arroyo, or any other like
body having definite banks and/or evidencing the overland flow of water.
   (B)   The Soil and Water Conservation District.
      (1)   The Soil and Water Conservation District shall determine:
         (a)   Whether the subdivider can furnish terrain management sufficient
to protect against flooding, inadequate drainage, and erosion; and
         (b)   Whether the subdivider can fulfill the proposals contained in
his or her disclosure statement concerning terrain management.
      (2)   Post development stormwater drainage flows shall not exceed pre-
development flows.
   (C)   Terrain management plan. A terrain management plan shall include:
      (1)   Vicinity map. A map drawn to scale of not more than 2,000 feet to
one inch showing the relationship of the site to its general surroundings, and
the location of all existing drainage channels, watercourses, and water bodies
within three miles of the site. This map shall display the topographic contours
at 20 feet intervals (a suitable example would be from a USGS topographic map);
      (2)   Natural features map. A map of the development (at the same scale
as the preliminary plat map, one inch shall mean 200 feet) showing directly or
by overlay:
         (a)   The boundaries of the development;
         (b)   The existing contours with intervals of not less than two feet
where the slope is less than 2% and not more than five feet where the slope is
2% or greater;
         (c)   All areas with natural slopes of 25% or greater clearly recorded
by scale, line, or color;
         (d)   The location of all drainage channels, watercourses, water
bodies, floodways, flood fringes, and floodplains; and
         (e)   The location of all major rock outcropping, faults, and geologic
resources.
      (3)   Soil survey. A soil survey of the site, including:
         (a)   An overlay of the natural features map showing the location of
each soil type. Soil surveys will be in keeping with national standards as set
forth by the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service;
         (b)   A description of the soil types. Detailed soil profiles may be
required if deemed necessary by the Soil and Water Conservation District; and
         (c)   Interpretations of the limitations from a detailed soil survey
for each soil type for the intended land uses common to the development.
      (4)   Grading plan. A series of maps, cross-sections, and design profiles
showing the location and impact of the planned development features to the
natural land form:
         (a)   An overlay of the natural features map showing the location of
all proposed parcels, roads, bridges, water and erosion control structures, and
the utility easements in relation to the existing contours;
         (b)   An overlay showing the finished contours of the development
after all proposals have been implemented using contour intervals equal to or
less than those on the existing contour map;
         (c)   The location of all cuts and fills, including the grades,
lengths, and depths thereof displayed using the necessary cross-section and
profiles to adequately describe and display the planned action;
         (d)   The location of an area where the natural elevation of the land
will be changed by more than three feet;
         (e)   The location of all areas where the grading of land will disturb
more than 1,000 contiguous square feet;
         (f)   Profiles showing the existing ground surface and proposed street
grades, and typical cross-sections of the proposed grading; and
         (g)   Description of methods of stabilization in areas of cut and
fill, embankment compaction, and re-vegetation on steep slopes.
      (5)   Landscaping plan. A series of maps or overlays and narratives to
identify those areas which will be re-vegetated following disturbance or to
enhance the visual aesthetics of the site and the methods to be used:
         (a)   Location and type of materials to be used in re-vegetation and
slope stabilization;
         (b)   Location of all areas where vegetation will be preserved and a
description of the methods that will be used for protection;
         (c)   Duration of exposure of the disturbed sites before reclamation
of the site will take place, and a description of the method to be used to
minimize erosion of disturbed sites prior to reclamation;
         (d)   A description of the vegetation characteristics that will be
present after re-vegetation; and
         (e)   The plan for site preparation, fertilization, seeding rates,
dates, and amounts by species, mulching type, and amount for grass, shrubs, and
trees. If watering is a planned part of the re-vegetation procedure, a
description of the planned irrigation system and amounts of needed water will
be included.
      (6)   Erosion drainage plan. This shall include the necessary charts,
drawings, location maps, and calculations to support the plan:
         (a)   1.   A watershed map showing all the upper watershed area
draining into or through the site; and
            2.   It should show the watercourses and topographic conditions as
well as indicate the soil and vegetative types and their locations within the
watershed.
         (b)   Storm drainage computations for the 100-year frequency storm
both reaching and leaving the site in the pre-development conditions;
         (c)   Storm drainage calculations for the post-development estimates
of runoff after planned full development of the site. This will be displayed to
show the estimated runoff before and after any mitigation of the increased
flows;
         (d)   Quantities of water carried by the major watercourses and the
proposed treatment of the watercourses. Calculations will be provided for pre-
and post-development using methods approved by the Soil Conservation District;
         (e)   The location, type, and size of all proposed drainage and
erosion control structures with adequate detail of the drawings or designs;
         (f)   The location and size of all drainage easements for all
floodplains, floodways, flood fringes, and other natural watercourses along
with adequate supporting documentation. Drainage easements are required for all
watercourses with 100-year storm flows that exceed 20 cubic feet per second
flow rates;
         (g)   An overlay indicating the depth to groundwater in all areas
where the seasonal high water table is within 20 feet of the ground surface, if
applicable; and
         (h)   All appropriate design details necessary to clearly explain the
construction of all surface and subsurface structures.
      (7)   Construction schedule. The construction schedule shall include:
         (a)   The start and finish dates for all clearing, grubbing, and
grading activities;
         (b)   Duration of exposure of disturbed areas;
         (c)   Stabilization date for disturbed areas;
         (d)   Installation date of all storm drainage system components:
         (e)   Installation date for all roads and related structural measures;
         (f)   Paving dates for all roads or parking areas included in the site
plan;
         (g)   Installation date of each utility to be provided and whether
said utility will be above or below ground; and
         (h)   Installation date for homes, recreation structures, and other
community facilities and improvements.
   (D)   Disclosure statement regarding terrain management. A disclosure
statement regarding terrain management shall:
      (1)   Describe the suitability of the soils in the subdivision for
residential use, whether permanent or seasonal;
      (2)   Describe any measures necessary for overcoming soil and topographic
limitations, and who will be responsible for implementing these measures;
      (3)   Give the location of all lots associated with a watercourse and
with land areas within a floodway, flood fringe, or floodplain;
      (4)   Give the location of all lots located on slopes in excess of 8%:
      (5)   Describe the surface drainage for all lots; and
      (6)   Describe all storm drainage systems, including the completion date
of any required to be constructed.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.155 CULTURAL PROPERTIES GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall protect cultural properties, archaeological
sites, and unmarked burials as required by the Cultural Properties Act (NMSA §§
18-6-1 through 18-6-17).
   (B)   The cultural properties documentation shall accompany the preliminary
plat submittal and shall include:
      (1)   Location of proposed subdivision shown on a vicinity map showing
size and location (township, range, and section); and
      (2)   Request for review of the most recent state register of cultural
properties from the State Historic Preservation Division.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
ENFORCEMENT, REMEDIES
§ 156.170 PURPOSE, AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Violations of the provisions of these regulations shall be prosecuted
in the manner provided by law to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
public according to the county’s authority under the State Subdivision Act,
NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq.
   (B)   The remedies provided in these regulations shall be cumulative and not
exclusive.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.171 INVESTIGATION OF ALLEGED VIOLATIONS.
   All written, signed complaints alleging one or more violations of the
provisions of the State Subdivision Act, being NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq., or these
regulations shall be referred to the County Planning Director for
investigation. The County Planning Director shall, within 60 days, investigate
the complaint and take such action as is warranted, or make a written
recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners of what action is
warranted. The County Planning Director shall inform the complainant in writing
of what actions have been taken or will be taken in response to the complaint.
Only written, signed complaints will be investigated. Non-action does not grant
any right or cause of action against the county.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
APPLICATIONS, DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS, AGREEMENTS, AND CHARTS
§ 156.185 APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   The following is the application for preliminary plat approval.
LUNA COUNTY SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL
 
For subdivisions containing more than five parcels.
INSTRUCTIONS
Print or type clearly. Use additional sheets if necessary. All required attachments shall be
submitted with this application form. Incomplete or inaccurate applications may delay review.
The completed applications package must be submitted to the County Planning Director by the
subdivider, or a designated agent, and shall be in compliance with the requirements of the
Luna County Subdivisions Regulations. Each application must be accompanied by the required
administrative fee.
 
NAME OF SUBDIVISION:
__________________________________________________________________________
APPLICANT INFORMATION
1.   Subdivider name:
_______________________________________________________________________________
   Address:
______________________________________________________________________________________
   Street address or P.O. box
         _____________________________________________________________________________________
               City   State                  Zip code
   Telephone number(s):
___________________________________________________________________________
   Signature: ______________________________________________ Date:
_________________________________
2.   Agent (if any) name:
____________________________________________________________________________
   Address:
______________________________________________________________________________________
   Street address or P.O. box
         _____________________________________________________________________________________
               City   State                  Zip code
   Telephone number(s):
___________________________________________________________________________
   Signature: ______________________________________________ Date:
_________________________________
3.   Engineer/surveyor/planner name:
__________________________________________________________________
   Address:
______________________________________________________________________________________
   Street address or P.O. box
         _____________________________________________________________________________________
               City   State                  Zip code
   Telephone number(s):
___________________________________________________________________________
   Signature: ______________________________________________ Date:
_________________________________
 
SUBDIVISION INFORMATION
4.   Name of subdivision:
____________________________________________________________________________
5.   Indicate if this is a succeeding subdivision, phased subdivision, or resubdivision:
___________________________
6.   This is a [ ] Type One [ ] Type Two [ ] Type Four subdivision (check one)
7.   Number of lots: _____   Total acreage: ______ acres   Size of smallest lot: _____ acres
8.   Does this subdivision lie within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of a municipality or
village?
   [ ] Yes [ ] No
   If yes, name of municipality or village having concurrent jurisdiction:
______________________
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
9.   If this is a succeeding subdivision, provide detailed attachments indicating the
relationship between the proposed subdivision and the previous subdivision.
10.   If this is part of a phased subdivision, attach a master plan of all phases indicating
the current proposed phased and an anticipated phasing schedule.
11.   If this is a resubdivision, provide a reference to the original plat with an explanation
of the proposed changes.
12.   Supporting documentation required for the preliminary plat review, as defined by the
county subdivision regulations, shall be attached to this application.
13.   The required number of copies of the preliminary plat map, as specified by the county
subdivision regulations, shall be attached to this application.
14.   A draft copy of the disclosure statement shall be attached to this application and shall
be in accordance with the standardized format provided in the county subdivisions regulations.
 
PROCEDURAL INFORMATION (to be completed by the County Planning Director)
15.   Date application received by county: __________________ Initial:
________________________
16.   Date preliminary plat deemed complete: ___________________ Initial:
_____________________
17.   Date of public hearing: ____________________
18.   Date of preliminary plat approval: ___________________________
 
Plat certification required for PRELIMINARY PLATS:
 
   SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATION
I hereby certify that I am a registered land surveyor in the State of New Mexico, and that
this plat was made by me or under my supervision from the notes of an actual field survey that
meets minimum requirements for land surveys in the State of New Mexico as adopted by the New
Mexico State Board of Registration for professional engineers and land surveyors, and that it
is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
 
Signature: _________________________________________ Date of survey: __________________
 
   BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS APPROVAL
This plat has been submitted to, reviewed, and approved by the Board of County Commissioners
of Luna County.
 
Commission Chairperson: ____________________________ Date: ___________________________
ATTEST: Luna County Clerk: ______________________________________
 
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.186 APPLICATION FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   The following is the application for final plat approval.
LUNA COUNTY SUBDIVISIONS REGULATIONS
APPLICATION FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
 
INSTRUCTIONS
Print or type clearly. Use additional sheets if necessary. All required attachment shall be submitted with this application form. Incomplete or inaccurate applications may delay review and final action. The completed application package must be submitted to the County Planner by the subdivider, or a designated agent, and shall be in compliance with the requirements of the County Subdivision Regulations. Each application must be accompanied by the required administrative fee.
 
NAME OF SUBDIVISION:                                                                                                                            
GENERAL INFORMATION
1.   This a Type _____ Subdivision Number of Lots: ____ Total Acreage: ______ acres
2.   Subdivider or agent name:                                                                                                                         
   Address:                                                                                                                                                
   Street Address or P.O. box
                                                                                                                                                      
            City   State                     Zip Code
   Telephone number(s):                                                                  
   Signature:                                                                                                                                              
3.   Engineer/surveyor name:                                                                                                                          
   Address:                                                                                                                                                
   Street Address or P.O. box
                                                                                                                                                      
            City   State                     Zip Code
   Telephone number(s):                                                                                                                               
   Signature:                                                                              Date:                                                      
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
4.   Have any changes to the proposed subdivision been made since the preliminary plat was approved?
   [ ] Yes [ ] No
   If yes, please attach a detailed explanation of such changes.
5.   Have the required improvement been completed?                                                                                          
   If not, attach improvement agreement to ensure completion of required improvements.
6.   All affidavits, certificates, permits, and statements required for final plat review, as defined by the county subdivision regulations, shall be attached to this application.
7.   The original drawing and required number of copies of the final plat map shall be attached to this application.
8.   The final disclosure statement shall be attached to this application.
 
PROCEDURAL INFORMATION (to be completed by the County Planning Director)
9.   Date of preliminary plat approval:                                                                                                              
10.   Expiration date of final plat:                                                                                                               
11.   Extension dates (if any, with explanation):                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
12.   Date application received by county:                                                 
   Initial:                                   
Plat certification required to be shown for Final Plats.
 
SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATION
I hereby certify that I am a registered land surveyor in the State of New Mexico, and that this plat was made by me or under my supervision from notes of an actual field survey that meets the minimum requirements for land surveys in the State of New Mexico, as adopted by the New Mexico State Board of Registration for professional engineers and land surveyors, and that it is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
Signature:                                                                      Date of Survey:                                 
 
UTILITY COMPANY REVIEW
Copies of this plat have been submitted to the following companies for review of easements for utility installation purposes this plat is approved for casement purposes only. The signing of this plat by utility companies does not guarantee utility services to the subdivision.
 
Electric/power company:                                                                                                            
By:                                                                                             Date:                                    
Telephone company:                                                                                                                  
By:                                                                                             Date:                                    
Gas company (if applicable):                                                                                                       
By:                                                                                             Date:                                    
 
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS APPROVAL
This plat has been submitted to, reviewed, and approved by the Board of County Commissioners of Luna County and is hereby approved for filing with the Luna County Clerk.
Commission Chairperson:                                                       Date:                                              
 
ATTEST: Luna County Clerk:                                                                                                    
STATE OF NEW MEXICO)
COUNTY OF LUNA)
I hereby certify that this instrument was filed for record on the              day of               , 20     ; at                            o’clock      .M. and duly record in plat record                        , page(s)              in the records of the Luna County Clerk.
Reception No.                            Luna County Clerk
 
Plat No.                                   By:                                        
                                                         (Deputy)
 
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.187 APPLICATION FOR SUMMARY REVIEW PLAT APPROVAL.
   The following is the application for summary review plat approval.
LUNA COUNTY SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
APPLICATION FOR SUMMARY REVIEW PLAT APPROVAL
 
INSTRUCTIONS
Print or type clearly. Use additional sheets if necessary. All required attachments shall be submitted with this application form. Incomplete or inaccurate applications may delay review. The completed application package must be submitted to the County Planning Director by the subdivider, or designated agent,
and shall be in compliance with the requirements of the Luna County Subdivisions Regulations. Each application must be accompanied by the required administrative fee.
 
NAME OF SUBDIVISION:                                                                                                                            
APPLICANT INFORMATION
1.   Subdivider name:                                                                                                                                    
   Address:                                                                                                                                               
   Street Address or P.O. box
                                                                                                                                                              
City   State   Zip Code
   Telephone number(s):                                                                                                                               
   Signature:                                                                                                                                              
2.   Engineer/surveyor name:                                                                                                                          
   Address:                                                                                                                                              
   Street Address or P.O. Box
                                                                                                                                                              
City   State   Zip Code
   Telephone number(s):                                                                                                                               
   Signature:                                                                                                                                             
 
SUBDIVISION INFORMATION
3.   Location of subdivision (attach map):                                                                                                          
4.   This is a Type Three       Type Five      Subdivision (check one)
5.   Number of lots:             Total acreage:               acres Size of smallest lot:              acres
6.   Does the subdivision lie within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of a municipality or village?
   [ ] Yes [ ] No
   If yes, name the municipality or village having concurrent jurisdiction:                                                             
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION (to be completed by the County Planning Director)
7.   If it is determined by the county to be necessary, attach an improvement agreement to ensure completion of required improvements.
8.   All affidavits, certificates, permits, and statements required for summary review plats, as defined by the County Subdivision Regulations, shall be attached to this application.
9.   The original drawing and required number of copies of the summary review plat map shall be attached to this application.
10.   The final disclosure statement shall be attached to this application.
 
PROCEDURAL INFORMATION (to be completed by the County Planning Director)
11.   Date of pre-application conference:
   Initial:                        
12.   Date application received by the county:
   Initial:                         
13.   Date summary review plat deemed complete:                                                                                               
   Initial:                         
14.   Date summary review plat approved by the county:                                                                                         
15.   Date summary review plat filed with County Clerk:                                                                                      
Plat certification required for summary review plat.
 
SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATION
I hereby certify that I am a registered land surveyor in the State of New Mexico, and that this plat was made by me or under my supervision from the notes of an actual field survey that meets the minimum requirements for land surveys in the State of New Mexico as adopted by the New Mexico Board of
Registration for professional engineers and land surveyors, and that it is a true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
Signature:                                                                                                     Date of survey:                          
 
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
This plat has been submitted to, reviewed, and approved by the Board of County Commissioners of Luna
County and is hereby approved for filling with the Luna County Clerk.
Chairperson:                                                                                                   Date:                                    
Secretary:                                                                                                       Date:                                    
 
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.188 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
   The following is the application for a variance within the county.
LUNA COUNTY SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE
 
INSTRUCTIONS
Print or type clearly. Use additional sheets if necessary. All required attachments shall be submitted with this application form. Incomplete or inaccurate applications may delay review and final action. The completed application package must be submitted to the County Planning Director by the subdivider, or a designated agent, and shall be in compliance with the requirements of the county subdivision regulations. Each application must be accompanied by the required administrative fee.
 
APPLICANT INFORMATION
1.   Subdivider or agent name:                                                                                                                        
   Address:                                                                                                                                                
   Street Address or P.O. box
                                                                                                                                                      
            City   State                           Zip Code
   Telephone number(s)
   Signature:                                                                                                                 Date:                    
2.   Engineer/surveyor name:
   Address:                                                                                                                                                
   Street Address or P.O. box
                                                                                                                                                      
            City   State                           Zip Code
   Telephone number(s)                                                                                                                                
   Signature:                                                                                                                 Date:                    
 
SUBDIVISION INFORMATION
3.   Name of subdivision:                                                                                                                               
4.   Reason for variance (brief description):                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
5.   Attach a copy of the planned development program containing maps, schematics, and narrative statement describing the full build-out of the proposed development.
 
PROCEDURAL INFORMATION (to be completed by the County Planning Director)
6.   Date application received by County Planner:                  Signed:                                                                    
7.   Date of public hearing:                                                                                                                             
8.   Date variance approved by County Commissioners:                                                                                        
 
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.189 DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   The following is the disclosure statement for plat proposals.
DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
YOU SHOULD READ THIS DISCLOSURE STATEMENT BEFORE YOU SIGN ANY DOCUMENTS OR AGREE TO ANYTHING.
This disclosure statement is intended to provide you with enough information to make an informed decision on the purchase, lease, or acquisition of the property described in this statement. You should read carefully all of the information contained in this disclosure statement before you decide to buy, lease, or
otherwise acquire the described property.
Various public agencies may have issued opinions on both the subdivision proposal and the information contained in this disclosure statement. Summaries of these opinions are contained in this disclosure statement. You should read them closely.
The Board of County Commissioners has examined this disclosure statement to determine whether the subdivider can fulfill what the subdivider has said in this disclosure statement. However, the Board of County Commissioners does not vouch for the accuracy of what is said in this disclosure statement. This disclosure
statement is not a recommendation or endorsement of the subdivision by either the county or the state. It is informative only. In addition, the county is not responsible for enforcement of any statement made in the disclosure statement. It is information provided by the subdivision to help you make a better informed
decision about the purchase or lease of land.
The Board of County Commissioners recommends that you inspect the property before buying, leasing, or otherwise acquiring it.
   If you have not inspected the parcel before purchasing, leasing, or otherwise acquiring it, you have six months from the time of purchase, lease, or other acquisition to personally inspect the property. After inspecting the parcel within the six-month period, you have three days to rescind the transaction and
receive all your money back from the subdivider when merchantable title is revested in the subdivider. To rescind the transaction, you must give the subdivider written notice of your intent to rescind within three days after the inspection of the date of your property.
County regulations require that any deed, real estate contract, lease, or other instrument conveying an interest in a parcel in the subdivision be recorded with the Luna County Clerk.
   Building permits, wastewater permits, or other use permits must be issued by state or county officials before Improvements arc constructed. You should investigate the availability of such permits before you purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire an interest in the land. You should also determine whether such permits
are requirements for construction of additional improvements before you occupy the property.
1.   NAME OF SUBDIVISION
Name of subdivision:                                                                                                                                       
2.   NAME AND ADDRESS OF SUBDIVIDER
Name of subdivider:                                                                                                                                        
Address of subdivided:                                                                                                                                    
3.   NAME AND ADDRESS OF PERSON IN CHARGE OF SALES, LEASING, OR OTHER CONVEYANCE IN NEW MEXICO
Name of person in charge of sales, leasing, or other conveyance
                                                                                                                                                                   
Address of person in charge of sales, leasing, or other conveyance
                                                                                                                                                                   
Telephone of person in charge of sales, leasing, or other conveyance
                                                                                                                                                                   
4.   SIZE OF SUBDIVISION BOTH PRESENT AND ANTICIPATED
Present                                                                                                                                                          Anticipated
Number of parcels                                                                                                                                                Number of parcels
                                                                                                                                                                 
Number of acres in subdivision                                                                                                                                   Number of acres in subdivision
                                                                                                                                                                 
5.   SIZE OF LARGEST PARCEL OFFERED FOR SALE, LEASE, OR CONVEYANCE WITHIN THE SUBDIVISION
Size of largest parcel in acres:                                                                                                                          
6.   SIZE OF SMALLEST PARCEL OFFERED FOR SALES, LEASES, OR OTHER CONVEYANCES WITHIN THE SUBDIVISION
Size of smallest parcel in acres:                                                                           
7.   PROPOSED RANGE OF PRICES FOR SALES, LEASES, OR OTHER CONVEYANCES WITHIN THE SUBDIVISION
Lowest amount                                                                                                                                                    Size of parcel sold, leased, or conveyed
                                                                                                                                                                   
Highest amount                                                                                                                                                   Size of parcel sold, leased, or conveyed
                                                                                                                                                                 
8.   FINANCING TERMS
Interest rate:                                                                                                                                                
Term of loan or contract:                                                                                                                                 
Minimum down payment:                                                                                                                                 
Premium for credit life or other insurance if it is a condition for giving credit:
                                                                              
Closing costs:                                                                                                                                                
Any other information required by the Truth in Lending Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1601 et seq., and Regulation 7 if not set forth above
                                                                                                                                                                   
9.   NAME AND ADDRESS OF HOLDER OF LEGAL TITLE
Name of person who is recorded as having legal title:                                                                                           
Address of person who is recorded as having legal title:                                                                                          
NOTE: IF ANY OF THE HOLDERS OF LEGAL TITLE NAMED ABOVE IS A CORPORATION, LIST THE
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF ALL OFFICERS OF THAT CORPORATION.
10.   NAME AND ADDRESS OF PERSON HAVING EQUITABLE TITLE
Name of person who is recorded as having equitable title:                                                                                       
Address of person recorded as having equitable title:                                                                                              
NOTE: IF ANY OF THE HOLDERS OF EQUITABLE TITLE NAMED ABOVE IS A CORPORATION, LIST THE
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF ALL OFFICERS OF THAT CORPORATION.
11.   CONDITION OF TITLE
Include at least the following information where applicable
Number of mortgages:                                                                                                                                     
Name and address of each mortgage:                                                                 
Balance or owing on each mortgage:                                                                                                                  
Summary of release provisions for each mortgage:                                                                                                 
Number of real estate contracts on the subdivided land for which the subdivider is making payments as purchaser:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Name and address of each person holding a real estate contract as owner of the subdivided land for which the subdivider is making payments as purchaser:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Balance owing on each real estate contract:                                                                                                         
Summary of default provisions of each real estate contract:                                                                                     
Summary of release provisions of each real estate contract:                                                                                   
Statement of any other encumbrances on the land:                                                                                                 
Statement of any other conditions relevant to the state of title:                                                                                 
12.   STATEMENT OF ALL RESTRICTIONS OR RESERVATIONS OF RECORD THAT SUBJECT THE SUBDIVIDED LAND TO ANY CONDITIONS AFFECTING ITS USE OR OCCUPANCY
State here all deed and plat restrictions affecting the subdivided land:
                                                                                                                                                                   
13.   ESCROW AGENT
Name of escrow agent:                                                                                                                                    
Statement of whether or not the subdivider has any interests in or financial ties to the escrow agent
                                                                                                                                                                   
14.   UTILITIES
Name of entity providing electricity, if available:                                                                                                              Estimated cost per parcel:
                                                                                                                                                                 
Name of entity providing gas service, if available:                                                                                                              Estimated cost:
                                                                                                                                                                 
Name of entity providing water, if available:                                                                                                                    Estimated cost:
                                                                                                                                                                 
Name of entity providing telephone, if available:                                                                                                                Estimated cost:
                                                                                                                                                                 
Name of entity providing liquid waste disposal, if available:                                                                                                    Estimated cost:
                                                                                                                                                                 
Name of entity providing solid waste disposal, if available:                                                                                                     Estimated cost:
                                                                                                                                                                 
15.   INSTALLATION OF UTILITIES
Electricity:                                                                                       Date:                                                                         
Gas:                                                                                   Date:                                                                       
Water:                                                                                      Date:                                                                        
Telephone:                                                                                      Date:                                                                       
Liquid waste disposal:                                                                                          Date:                                                                        
Solid waste disposal:                                                                                         Date:                                                                       
16.   UTILITY LOCATION
If all utilities are to be provided to each parcel in the subdivisions, please state here
                                                                                                                                                                   
State whether each utility will be aboveground or underground.
Electricity                                                                                                                                                      Aboveground Underground _____
                                                                                                                                                                 _____
Gas                                                                                                                                                              Aboveground Underground _____
                                                                                                                                                                 _____
Water                                                                                                                                                            Aboveground Underground ___
                                                                                                                                                                 ___
Telephone                                                                                                                                                        Aboveground Underground ___
                                                                                                                                                                 ___
Liquid waste disposal                                                                                                                                            Aboveground Underground ___
                                                                                                                                                                 ___
Solid waste disposal                                                                                                                                             Aboveground Underground ___
                                                                                                                                                                 ___
17.   WATER AVAILABILITY
Describe the maximum annual water requirements of the subdivision, including water for indoor and outdoor domestic uses:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Describe the availability and sources of water to meet the subdivision’s maximum annual water requirements
                                                                                                                                                                   
Describe the means of water delivery within the subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Describe any limitations and restrictions on water use in the subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Summarize the provisions of any covenants or other restrictions requiring the use of water saving fixtures or other water conservation measures:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Describe what measures, if any, will be employed to monitor or restrict water use in the subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
18.   FOR SUBDIVISIONS WITH COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEMS
Name and address of entity providing water:                                                                                                         
Source of water and means of delivery:                                                                                                               
Summary of any legal restrictions on either indoor or outdoor usage:                                                                       
Statements that individual wells are prohibited, if such is the case:                                                                           
19.   FOR SUBDIVISIONS WITH INDIVIDUAL DOMESTIC WELLS OR SHARED WELLS
State whether wells will be provided by the subdivider or by the prospective purchaser/leasee/conveyee:
                                                                                                                                                                   
If wells are provided by purchaser/leasee/conveyee, state the estimated cost to complete a domestic well, including drilling, pressure tank, control devices, storage, and treatment facilities:
                                                                                                                                                                   
If wells are provided by the subdivider, state the cost, if any, to the purchaser/leasee/conveyee:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Summary or legal restriction on either indoor or outdoor usage:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Average depth to groundwater and the minimum and maximum well depths to be reasonably expected:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Estimated total depth of well:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Estimated yield in gallons per minute of wells completed to recommended total depth:
                                                                                                                                                                   
20.   LIFE EXPECTANCY OF WATER SUPPLY
State the life expectancy of each source of water supply for the subdivision under full development of the subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
21.   SURFACE WATER*
*Not applicable where subdivider intends to provide water for domestic use.
Provide a detailed statement, the source, and yield of the surface water supply and any restrictions to which the surface water supply is subject:
                                                                                                                                     
22.   NEW MEXICO STATE ENGINEER’S OPINION ON WATER AVAILABILITY
Include here the approved summary of the opinion received by the Board of County Commissioners from the New Mexico State Engineer regarding:
                                                                                                                                                                  
Whether or not the subdivider can furnish water sufficient in quantity to fulfill the maximum annual water requirements of the subdivision, including water for indoor and outdoor domestic uses:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Whether or not the subdivider can fulfill the proposals in this disclosure statement concerning water, excepting water quality:
                                                                                                                                                                   
23.   WATER QUALITY
Describe the quality of water in the subdivision available for human consumption:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Describe any quality that would make the water unsuitable for use within the subdivision*:
                                                                                                                                                                   
*Refer to §§
156.006 and
156.999
State each maximum allowable water quality parameter that has been exceeded with the approval of the Board of County Commissioners and the name of the element, compound, or standard that has exceed that parameter:
                                                                                                                                                                   
24.   NEW MEXICO ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT’S OPINION ON WATER QUALITY
Include here the approved summary of the opinion received by the Board of County Commissioners from the New Mexico Environment Department on:
Whether or not the subdivider can furnish water of an acceptable quality for human consumption and measures to protect the water supply from contamination in conformity with state regulations:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Whether or not the subdivider can fulfill the water quality proposal made in the disclosure statement:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Whether or not the subdivider’s proposal for water quality conforms to the county’s water quality regulations:
                                                                                                                                                                   
25.   LIQUID WASTE DISPOSAL
Describe the precise type of liquid waste disposal system that is proposed and that has been approved by the Board of County Commissioners for use within the subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
NOTE: NO LIQUID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM MAY BE USED IN THIS SUBDIVISION OTHER THAN A SYSTEM APPROVED FOR USE IN THIS SUBDIVISION BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
26.   NEW MEXICO ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT’S OPINION ON LIQUID WASTE PROPOSAL
Include there the approved summary of the opinion received by the Board of County Commissioners from the New Mexico Environment Department on:
Whether there are sufficient liquid waste disposal facilities to fulfill the requirements of the subdivision in conformity with the state regulations:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Whether or not the subdivider can fulfill the liquid waste proposals made in this disclosure statement:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Whether or not the subdivider’s proposal for liquid waste disposal conforms to the county’s liquid waste disposal regulations:
                                                                                                       
27.   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Describe the means of solid waste disposal that is proposed for use within the subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
28.   NEW MEXICO ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT’S OPINION ON SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Include here the approved summary of the opinion received by the Board of County Commissioners from the New Mexico Environment Department on:
Whether or not there are sufficient solid waste disposal facilities to fulfill the needs of the subdivision in conformity with state regulations:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Whether or not the subdivider can fulfill the solid waste proposals made in this disclosure statement:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Whether or not the subdivider’s proposal for solid waste disposal conforms to the county’s regulations on solid waste disposal:
                                                                                                                                                                   
29.   TERRAIN MANAGEMENT
Describe the suitability for residential use of the soils in the subdivisions as defined in the Natural Resource Conservation District’s soil survey for the county:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Describe any measures necessary for overcoming soil and topographic limitations, and who will be responsible for implementing these measures:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Identify by lot and block number all parcels within the subdivision that are subject to flooding:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Identify by lot and block number all parcels within the subdivision located in whole or in part on slopes in excess of 8%:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Describe the surface drainage for all lots in the subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Describe the subsurface drainage for all lots in the subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Describe the nature, location, and completion dates of all storm drainage systems constructed or required to be constructed in the subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
30.   NATURAL RESOURCE CONSERVATION DISTRICT’S OPINION ON TERRAIN MANAGEMENT
Include here the approved summary of the opinion received by the Board of County Commissioners from the Soil and Water Conservation District on:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Whether or not the subdivider can furnish terrain management sufficient to protect against flooding, inadequate drainage, and soil erosion:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Whether or not the subdivider can satisfy the terrain management proposal made in this disclosure statement:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Whether or not the subdivider’s terrain management proposals conform to the county’s regulations on terrain management:
                                                                                                                                                                   
31.   SUBDIVISION ACCESS
Name of town to nearest subdivision:                                                                                                                 
Distance from nearest town to subdivision and the route over which that distance is computed:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Describe access roads to subdivision:                                                                                                                 
State whether or not the subdivision is ordinarily accessible by conventional vehicle:
                                                                                                                                                                   
State whether or not the subdivision is ordinarily accessible at all times of the year and under all weather conditions:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Describe the width and surfacing of all roads within the subdivisions:
                                                                                                                                                                   
State whether the roads within the subdivision have been accepted for maintenance by the county:
                                                                                                                                                                   
If the roads within the subdivision have not been accepted for maintenance by the county, state how the roads will be maintained and describe the lot owners’ responsibilities and obligations with respect to the road maintenance:
                                                                                                                                                                   
32.   MAINTENANCE
State whether the roads and other improvements within the subdivisions will be maintained by the county, the subdivider, or an association of lot owners, and what measures have been taken to make sure than maintenance takes place:
                                                                                                                                                                   
33.   STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT’S OPINION ON ACCESS
Include here the approved summary of the opinion received by the Board of County Commissioners from the State Highway and Transportation Department on:
Whether or not the subdivider can provide or can fulfill the state highway access requirements for the subdivision in conformity with state regulations:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Whether or not the subdividers can satisfy the access proposal made in this disclosure statement:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Whether or not the subdivider’s access proposals conform to the county’s regulation on access:
                                                                                                                                                                   
34.   CONSTRUCTION GUARANTEES
Describe any proposed roads, drainage structures, water treatment facilities, or other improvements that will not be completed before parcels in the subdivision are offered for sale:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Describe all performance bonds letters of credit, or other collateral securing the completion of each proposed improvement:
                                                                                                                              
UNLESS THERE IS SUFFICIENT BOND, LETTER OF CREDIT, OR OTHER ADEQUATE COLLATERAL TO SECURE THE COMPLETION OF PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS, IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS WILL NOT BE COMPLETED. CAUTION IS ADVISED.
35.   ADVERSE OR UNUSUAL CONDITIONS
State any activities or conditions adjacent to or nearby the subdivision such as feed lots, dairies, cement plants, or airports, that would subject the subdivided land to any unusual conditions affecting its use or occupancy:
                                                                                                                                                                   
36.   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
Describe all recreational facilities, actual and proposed, in the subdivisions:
                                                                                                                                                                   
State the estimated date of completion of each proposed recreational facility:
                                                                                                                                                                   
State whether or not there are any bonds, letters of credit, or other collateral securing the construction of each proposed recreational facility and describe any such bond, letter of credit, or other collateral:
                                                                                                                                                                   
37.   FIRE PROTECTION
Distance to nearest fire station from subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Route over which that distance is computed:
                                                                                          
State whether the Fire Department is full-time or volunteer:
                                                                                                                                                                   
38.   POLICE PROTECTION
List the various police units that patrol the subdivisions.
Sheriff’s Department, if applicable:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Municipal police, if applicable:
                                                                                                                                                                   
State police, if applicable:
                                                                                                                                                                   
39.   PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Name of and distance to nearest public elementary school serving the subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Name of and distance to nearest public junior high or middle school serving the subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Name of and distance to nearest public high school serving the subdivision:
                                                                                                                                                                   
40.   HOSPITALS
Name of nearest hospital:                                                                                                                                
Distance to nearest hospital and route over which that distance is computed:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Number of beds in nearest hospital:                                                                                                                   
41.   SHOPPING FACILITIES
Description of nearest shopping facilities, including number of stores:
                                                                                                                                                                   
Distance to nearest shopping facilities and route over which that distance is computed:
                                                                                                                                                                   
42.   PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
Describe all public transportation that serves the subdivision on a regular basis:
                                                                                                                                                                   
 
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.190 CLAIM OF EXEMPTION FORM.
   The following is the claim of exemption form for the county.
   File No. ____________
   CLAIM OF EXEMPTION
   To claim exemption from the requirements of the Luna County Subdivision Ordinance, you must complete this form, sign it before a notary public, and submit it together with legible copies of all required documents to the Luna County Planning Director, P.O. Drawer 551, 115 S Cody Road,
Deming, NM 88031-0551. Be sure to check all exemptions which apply and attach legible copies of all supporting documents.
   The County Planning Director will notify you in writing within 30 days as to whether your claim of exemption has been granted. If the claim of exemption is granted or if you do not hear from the County Planning Office within 30 days, you may proceed with the land division you propose
without needing to comply with the requirements of the Luna County Subdivision Regulations. If your claim of exemption is denied, you may either seek approval of a subdivision or appeal the denial as provided in the Luna County Subdivision Regulations.
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
We,                                                                                   , claim an exemption from the requirements of the State Subdivision Act and the Luna County Subdivision Regulations for the following reason(s). We certify that this transaction involves:
           1.   The sale, lease, or other conveyance of any parcel that is 35 acres or larger in size within any 12-month period, provided that the land has been used primarily and continuously for agricultural purposes, in accordance with NMSA § 7-36-20, for the preceding three years;
THE SURVEY NEEDS TO SHOW THE FOLLOWING NOTES:
1.   NO FURTHER EXEMPT LAND DIVISION MAY OCCUR ON THESE TRACTS FOR 12 MONTHS AFTER RECORDATION.
2.   TRACT ______ CANNOT BE DIVIDED BELOW 35 ACRES BY MEANS OF A CLAIM OF EXEMPTION EXCEPT BY COURT ORDER, TO SECURE A MORTGAGE, OR TO DONATE A PARCEL OF LAND.
ATTACH COPIES OF DEED, NOTICE OF VALUATION FROM THE ASSESSOR’S OFFICE, PREVIOUS SURVEY, AND CERTIFIED SURVEY SHOWING THE SIZE AND LOCATION OF PARCEL.
           2.   The sale or lease of apartments, offices, stores, or similar space within a building;
ATTACH COPIES OF DEED, PREVIOUS SURVEY, SKETCH PLAN, AND ALL PROPOSED SALE OR LEASE DOCUMENTS.
           3.   The division of land within the boundaries of a municipality;
ATTACH COPIES OF DEED, PREVIOUS SURVEY AND CERTIFIED SURVEY SHOWING THE SIZE AND LOCATION OF THE PROPOSED DIVISION.
           4.   The division of land in which only gas, oil, mineral, or water rights are severed from the surface ownership of the land;
ATTACH COPIES OF DEED, SKETCH PLAN, AND ALL PROPOSED CONVEYANCING DOCUMENTS.
           5.   The division of land created by court order where the order creates no more than one parcel per party;
ATTACH COPIES OF DEED, CERTIFIED COPY OF COURT ORDER, PREVIOUS SURVEY, AND A CERTIFIED SURVEY OF THE DIVISION AND CONVEYANCING DOCUMENTS. THE SURVEY NEEDS TO SHOW THE FOLLOWING NOTES:
   1.   THESE LOTS WERE CREATED BY (NAME OFCOURT ORDERING DIVISION), COURT ORDER NO. _________, DATED ______
           6.   The division of land for grazing or farming activities, provided the land continues to be used for grazing or farming activities;
ATTACH COPIES OF THE DEED AND ALL PROPOSED CONVEYANCING DOCUMENTS AND DOCUMENTS RESTRICTING FUTURE USE TO GRAZING OR FARMING ACTIVITIES. NO DWELLING UNITS, COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL USES SHALL BE ALLOWED ON THE LOTS CREATED IN PERPETUITY. SUCH DOCUMENTS MUST CONTAIN A COVENANT RUNNING WITH
THE LAND AND REVOCABLE ONLY BY MUTUAL CONSENT OF THE PLANNING DIRECTOR AND THE PROPERTY OWNER THAT THE DIVIDED LAND WILL BE USED EXCLUSIVELY FOR GRAZING OR FARMING ACTIVITIES. THE COVENANT MUST BE SIGNED BY THE PROPERTY OWNER, THE BUYERS OR LESSEE, AND THE PLANNING DIRECTOR AND MUST BE
FILED WITH THE COUNTY CLERK ALONG WITH A CERTIFIED SURVEY OF THE DIVISION.
THE SURVEY NEEDS TO SHOW THE FOLLOWING NOTES:
   1.   TRACT ____ WAS CREATED FOR GRAZING AND FARMING ACTIVITIES ONLY, NO DWELLINGS OR COMMERCIAL USES ARE PERMITT0ED.
   2.   NO FURTHER EXEMPT LAND DIVISION MAY OCCUR UNLESS THE COVENANTS ARE REVOKED BY MUTUAL CONSENT BETWEEN THE PROPERTY OWNER AND THE PLANNING DIRECTOR.
      a.   RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS ARE RECORDED AT RECEPTION NO.____________ AS DOCUMENT # ______________ IN THE RECORDS OF THE LUNA COUNTY CLERK’S OFFICE.
           7.   The division of land resulting only in the alteration of parcel boundaries where parcels are altered for the purpose of increasing or reducing the size of contiguous parcels and where the number of parcels is not increased;
ATTACH COPIES OF DEEDS, PREVIOUS SURVEY, AND CERTIFIED SURVEYS SHOWING ALL PARCELS AND PARCEL BOUNDARIES BEFORE AND AFTER PROPOSED ALTERATIONS.
           8.   The division of land to create burial plots in a cemetery;
ATTACH COPIES OF DEED, PREVIOUS SURVEY, AND CERTIFIED SURVEY SHOWING THE PARCEL TO BE USED AS A CEMETERY AND ALL DOCUMENTS DEEMING IT AS SUCH.
           9.   The division of land to create a parcel that is sold or donated as a gift to an immediate family member; however, this exception shall be limited to allow the seller or donor to sell or give no more than one parcel per tract of land per immediate family member;
THE SURVEY NEEDS TO SHOW THE FOLLOWING NOTES:
   1.   NO FURTHER DIVISION IS PERMITTED BY MEANS OF A CLAIM OF EXEMPTION, EXCEPT BY MEANS OF A COURT ORDER, TO SECURE A MORTGAGE, OR TO DONATE A PARCEL OF LAND.
   2.   (FOR TRACTS BEING CONVEYED TO A MINOR CHILD). AN IRREVOCABLE TRUST FOR THIS LAND DIVISION IS RECORDED AT RECEPTION NO.____________ AS DOCUMENT #______________ IN THE RECORDS OF THE LUNA COUNTY CLERK’S OFFICE.
   3.   DEEDS OF TRANSFER FOR THE TRACTS CREATED ARE RECORDED AT RECEPTION NO.____________ AS DOCUMENT # ______________ IN THE RECORDS OF THE LUNA COUNTY CLERK’S OFFICE.
ATTACH COPIES OF DEED, PREVIOUS SURVEY, PROPOSED CONVEYANCING DOCUMENTS, A CERTIFIED SURVEY SHOWING THE DIVISIONS, AND THE BIRTH CERTIFICATE OR ANY OTHER DOCUMENTATION TO SHOW RELATIONSHIP TO CLAIMED. BAPTISMAL CERTIFICATES ARE NOT ACCEPTABLE DOCUMENTATION.
           10.   The division of land created to provide security for mortgages, lien, or deeds of trust; provided, that the division is not the result of a seller-financed transaction;
THE SURVEY NEEDS TO SHOW THE FOLLOWING NOTES:
   1.   THIS PLAT CREATES A TEMPORARY LOT FOR MORTGAGE PURPOSES ONLY.
   2.   TRACT SHALL AUTOMATICALLY BE CONSOLIDATED WITH THE ORIGINAL PARCEL UPON RELEASE OF MORTGAGE, LIEN, OR DEED OF TRUST.
   3.   THESE PARCELS CANNOT BE SOLD SEPARATELY UNTIL FINAL FORECLOSURE DOCUMENTATION HAS BEEN SUBMITTED AND APPROVED BY THE PLANNING DIRECTOR.
ATTACH COPIES OF DEED, A COMMITMENT LETTER STATING THE MORTGAGE IS CONTINGENT ON THE APPROVAL OF THE CLAIM OF EXEMPTION, PREVIOUS SURVEY, AND A CERTIFIED SURVEY SHOWING THE LOCATION OF PROPOSED DIVISION.
           11.   The sale, lease, or other conveyance of land that creates no parcel smaller than 140 acres;
ATTACH COPIES OF DEED, PREVIOUS SURVEY, AND CERTIFIED SURVEY SHOWING LOCATION AND SIZE OF PARCEL(S).
           12.   The division of land to create a parcel that is donated to any trust or non-profit corporation granted an exemption from federal income tax, as described in I.R.C. § 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; school, college, or other
institution with a defined curriculum and a student body and faculty which conducts classes on a regular basis; or to any church group organized for the purpose of divine worship, religious teaching, or other specifically religious activity;
ATTACH COPIES OF DEED, PREVIOUS SURVEY, IRS EXEMPTION LETTER, AND/OR DOCUMENTS DEMONSTRATING ENTITLEMENT AND CERTIFIED SURVEY SHOWING LAND PROPOSED TO BE DONATED.
           13.   The sale, lease, or other conveyance of a single parcel from a tract of land, except from a tract within a previously approved subdivision, within any five-year period, provided that a second or subsequent sale, lease, or other conveyance from the same tract of land
within five years of the first sale, lease, or other conveyance shall be subject to the provisions of the State Subdivision Act, being NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq.; and these regulations; provided further, that a survey shall be filed with the County Clerk indicating the five-year holding
period for both the original tract and the newly created tract.
ATTACH COPIES OF DEED, PREVIOUS SURVEY, CERTIFIED SURVEY SHOWING SIZE AND LOCATION OF ORIGINAL TRACT, PROPOSED PARCEL TO BE DIVIDED, PARCELS PREVIOUSLY DIVIDED FROM THE ORIGINAL TRACT, AND DATES OF ALL DIVISIONS WITHIN THE APPROPRIATE PARCEL. THE SURVEY NEEDS TO SHOW IN BOLD AND OBVIOUS
LETTERING UNDER THE TITLE THE FOLLOWING NOTE:
   “FIVE-YEAR HOLDING PERIOD”
BOTH TRACTS CREATED BY THIS DIVISION ARE SUBJECT TO A FIVE-YEAR HOLDING PERIOD. DURING THIS PERIOD TRACT ________________CANNOT BE SOLD, LEASED, OR OTHERWISE CONVEYED AND NEITHER TRACT SHALL BE FURTHER DIVIDED DURING THIS PERIOD. IF EITHER OCCUR, THESE TRACTS ARE SUBJECT TO ALL APPLICABLE
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
I further certify that the information provided by me in this claim of exemption is true and correct, and that all documents attached to or enclosed with this claim of exemption are originals, or complete and correct copies of the originals. And this exemption is not part of a common
promotional scheme to avoid the applicable subdivision regulations.
                                                                               
   Applicant’s Name
                                                                               
   Address
                                                                               
   City, State, and Zip Code
                                                                               
   Telephone Number(s)
                                                                               
   Signature of Applicant
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me this                                                                  day of                       , 20        .
                                                                        
   NOTARY PUBLIC
My commission expires:
                                         
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
On this date                              the foregoing claim of exemption has been:
         Approved
         Denied
Condition or comments for this decision:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
   LUNA COUNTY PLAT CHECKLIST
   REQUIRED ON ALL EXEMPTION APPLICATIONS
TITLES MUST BE IN THE NAME OF PERSON(S) CURRENTLY HOLDING TITLE OF PROPERTY.
1.   Land division created by 35-acre agricultural exemption for                                                     
2.   (Reserved)
3.   (Reserved)
4.   (Reserved)
5.   Land division created by court order for                                                                                 
6.   Land division created for grazing and farming activities for                                                      
7.   Lot line adjustment of lots               and                   of (Name of subdivision or legal description)
8.   Lot consolidation of lots               and                   of (Name of subdivision or legal description)
9.   Land division created by family transfer for                                                                            
10.   Temporary land division for mortgage security for                                                                  
11.   Land division created by 140-acre exemption for                                                                         
12.   Land division created by owner of property to donate tract(s) to (Organization) __________________________________
13.   Land division created by five-year exemption for                                                                     
PLAT INFORMATION AND SPECIFICATIONS
____ Name, address, and phone number of surveyor or engineer
____ Signature, seal, and license number of surveyor or engineer
____ Surveyor’s certificate meeting minimum standards for surveying in New Mexico
____ Free consent affidavit signed and notarized by the owners of record
____ All sections, township, and ranges
____ Subdivisions, including lot, block, and unit
____ Designation of grant, holding claim, or mining claim
____ Projected section, township, and range, if applicable
____ City, county, and state
____ True north arrow
____ Equivalent scale and graphic scale
____ Legend of all monuments set or found (set one-half rebar and cap, found marked stone)
____ Indicate all record dimensions in parenthesis and include in legend
____ At least a three by three vicinity map showing county and state roads
____ Basis of bearing (GPS methods, north line, or Tract A within N one-half, Sect. 3 T9N, R6E)
____ At least one tie to a permanent monument (section corner, USGLO monument)
____ Designate all tracts created with a lot number or letter
____ Indicate the gross acreage of each lot to the nearest one-hundredth (2.52 acres)
____ Location and description of all buildings and structures tied to nearest property line
____ Designate any existing easement with recording information
____ Designate widths of all easements being granted, both private and public
____ Indicate all adjoining property owners, with plat recording information or deed book and page
NOTES AND CONDITIONS
____ The lands shown hereon lie within the planning and platting jurisdiction of the City of Deming and Luna County, New Mexico.
____ The purpose of this plat is to divide lands and to grant easements in compliance with exemption #____and all required zoning regulations.
____ Maintenance of access roads and utility easements is the responsibility of the landowner or user unless currently maintained by the Luna County Road Department or the N.M. State Highway Dept.
____ The lands shown herein lie (inside/outside) the 100-year floodplain in Zone __ according to the Federal Flood Insurance Rate Map Panel No. ____.
____ County road access: Lots which require access from a county road are required to install a minimum of 12 inch culvert at the time of development.
____ Available water system: These lots are subject to utilizing the ____ water system. Water wells are prohibited.
____ Make a reference to all documents used to determine the boundary of the land surveyed (plats, deeds, right-of-way maps) including the recording information for the documents.
Approvals and Signatures                                                         County Clerk’s Recording Block
Luna County Planning Director                                                     
The reviewing officer has determined that this plat is in compliance with county State of New Mexico:
regulations.                                                                     : S.S.
                                                                                 County of Luna   :
Remarks:                                                                          
                                        �I hereby certify that this instrument was filed for record on the ____________ day of ____________, 20____ A.D. at __________ o’clock _____M. and was recorded in cabinet ______, Slide ____, of the records of
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                , New Mexico.
                                                                                
Reviewing Officer   Date                                                      By ______________________________________ (Deputy)
                                        � �                                      
Addressing                                                                          Seal
Assessor’s Property I.D. #                                             
   #                                     � �      
The taxes for the current of ______ are paid.                                     
No taxes are due until _______.                                                   
 
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.191 NOTICE OF APPEAL FORM.
   The following is the notice of appeal form for the county.
LUNA COUNTY SUBDIVISION REGULATION
NOTICE OF APPEAL
 
INSTRUCTIONS
Print or type clearly. Use additional sheets if necessary. All required attachments shall be submitted with this application form. Incomplete or inaccurate applications may delay review. The completed application package must be submitted to the County Planning Director by the subdivider, or designated agent, and shall be in compliance with the requirements of the Luna County Subdivisions Regulations. Each application must be accompanied by the required administrative fee.
 
APPELLATE INFORMATION
1.   Name:                                                                                                                                                  
   Address:                                                                                                                                                
   Street Address or P.O. box
                                                                                                                                                      
            City   State                        Zip Code
   Telephone number(s):                                                                                                                               
   Signature:                                                                                                       Date:                               
2.   Agent (if any) name:                                                                                                                                
   Address:                                                                                                                                                
   Street Address or P.O. box
                                                                                                                                                      
            City   State                        Zip Code
   Telephone number(s):                                                                                                                               
   Signature:                                                                                                       Date:                               
 
NATURE OF APPEAL
3.   Reasons for appeal (reference to specific decision being appealed):                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
4.   Ruling authority for this appeal:                                                                                                                 
                           (Attach a copy of the decision or order being appealed)
 
PROCEDURAL INFORMATION (to be completed by the County Planning Director)
5.   Date notice of appeal received by County Director:                 Signed:                                                             
6.   Date of action being appealed:                               
7.   Date of decision regarding appeal by County Commissioners:                                            
 
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.192 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS FOR SUBDIVISION ROADS.
   The following is the construction specifications for subdivision roads for
the county.
LUNA COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT
CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS FOR SUBDIVISION ROADS
OUTSIDE EXTRA-TERRITORIAL ZONE
   (NOTE: Roads within the E.T.Z. are subject to City of Deming Road Design
Standards)
1.   ROAD WIDTH. Right-of-way easements to the county shall be not less
than 60 feet. The road width and surfacing shall be as shown in the roadway
typical sections included with this form.
2.   SUBGRADE. This item consists of clearing, grubbing, removing, and
disposing of vegetation and debris from the roadway prism: watering,
processing, and compacting as required to not less than 95% of standard
proctor density.
   Roadway fill areas shall be placed in horizontal layers not exceeding
eight inches (loose measurements) and shall be compacted to not less than
95% of standard proctor density.
   Finished subgrade will be a minimum of four inches above surrounding
natural ground and shall have a minimum of 1.5% crown (2% where final
surfacing is “pit run” or crushed gravel).
3.   DITCHES. The term “ditches” shall be interpreted to mean all side
ditches, inlet and outlet ditches, changes in channels or streams, to and
from culverts and other structures, diversion ditches, and other ditches in
connection with surface drainage.
4.   CULVERTS AND BACKFILL. Where rock or other unyielding foundation
material is encountered, it shall be removed below the bottom of the
structure for a depth of not less than 12 inches and backfilled with
suitable material.
   When bedding material is required, it shall be sand or sandy soil all of
which passes a three-eighths inch sieve and not more than 20% of which
passes a No. 200 sieve.
   Backfilling shall consist of suitable materials uniformly distributed in
layers not to exceed eight inches (loose measurement) in depth and
uniformly compacted to 95% of standard proctor density.
   Backfill compaction shall be done in uniform lifts on both sides of the
structure in a manner that will not damage nor move the structure.
   Materials for backfill shall not contain frozen lumps or stones larger
than two inches in diameter, clay (more than 35% passing the No. 200
sieve), or other objectionable material.
   Roadway drainage structures shall be a minimum of 18 inches in diameter.
5.   SURFACING MATERIAL. For roads not scheduled to receive chip seal or
asphalt concrete surfacing, a minimum of six inches of “pit run” gravel
meeting the following grading specification is to be placed on the prepared
subgrade:
   SIEVE           % PASSING
   No. 4           40-85
   No. 200         5-20
   For roads scheduled to receive chip seal or asphalt concrete surfacing,
a minimum of four inches of crushed gravel meeting the following grading
specification is to placed on the prepared subgrade:
   SIEVE           % PASSING
   3/4”          85-100
   No. 4           40-70
   No. 10          30-55
   No. 200         8-15
   Fifty percent of the plus No. 4 material shall have a minimum of two
mechanically fractured faces.
   Gravel surfacing shall be mixed uniformly with water by means of motor
graders or other suitable equipment until the mixture is uniform
throughout, and compacted to not less than 95% of modified proctor density.
   Roads scheduled for chip seal or asphalt concrete surfacing shall be
primed with AEP (or approved equal) at a rate of 0.05 gallons per square
yard and allowed to cure adequately prior to application of surfacing.
6.   CONCRETE. Concrete produced for structural concrete shall be a six-
sack mix, air entrained 5% to 7%, with a minimum compressive strength at 28
days of 3,000 psi.
7.   SURFACE TREATMENT (CHIP SEAL). Surface treatment (chip seal) aggregate
shall conform with the following gradation requirements:
   ONE-COURSE SURFACE TREATMENT
   SIEVE           % PASSING
   No. 4           0-20
   No. 10          0-2
   TWO-COURSE SURFACE TREATMENT
   SIEVE           % PASSING (1ST)�   % PASSING (2ND)
      5/8”    100                -
   No. 4           0-12               0-10
   No. 10          0-2                0-2
   The amount of crushing shall be regulated so that at least 75%, by
weight, or all plus No. 4 sieved material shall have a minimum of two
mechanically fractured faces.
   The bituminous material to be applied shall be HFE-100P (or approved
equal) applied at a rate of 0.35 to 0.50 gallons per square yard (first
course) and at a rate of 0.30 gallons per square yard (second course). Rate
to be adjusted by the inspector based upon results achieved during actual
application in the field.
   Surface treatment (chip seal) materials shall not be placed during wet
weather nor when the atmospheric temperature is below 70 degrees.
   The aggregate shall be spread by self-propelled aggregate spreaders of
approved design. Initial rolling shall consist of one pass with a steel
wheel roller followed by four passes with a pneumatic-tired roller over the
entire surface of the applied aggregate.
   Surface treatment aggregate, when applied, shall have a moisture content
not to exceed 2% by weight.
   Loose aggregate shall be removed from the treated surface by brooming no
sooner than 12 hours after rolling, and again 12 to 24 hours after initial
brooming upon inspection for satisfactory results.
8.   ASPHALT CONCRETE (HOT MIX). The PMBP mixture shall be composed of a
mixture of bituminous material, aggregate, and filler if required. The
several aggregate fractions shall be sized, uniformly graded, and combined
in such proportions as to conform to the gradations specified below:
                     PERCENT PASSING
SIEVE SIZE   TYP   B                  C
3/4”                100                -
3/8”                70-90              70-98
No. 4                 50-65              45-70
No. 10                32-45              30-50
No. 40                10-22              15-25
No. 200               3-8                4-8
   Liquid limit shall be 25 or less. The amount of crushing shall be
regulated so that at least 75%, by dry weight, or the plus No. 4 material
shall have two mechanically fractured faces.
   BITUMINOUS MATERIAL. Bituminous material shall consist of AC-20 asphalt
cement in the amount specified by mix design.
   HYDRATED LIME. Hydrated lime shall conform with the requirements of ASTM
C207, Type N, and shall be furnished in the amounts determined by an
approved mix design.
   Asphalt concrete shall not be placed on any wet or frozen surface, when
the ambient temperature is below 45°F, or when the weather conditions
otherwise prevent the proper handling and finishing of the mix.
   All courses of asphaltic concrete shall be placed by means of self-
propelled paving machines except under certain conditions or at certain
locations where the inspector deems the use of self-propelled machines
impracticable.
   Immediately after the bituminous mixture has been spread, stuck-off, and
surface irregularities adjusted, it shall be thoroughly and uniformly
compacted until all roller marks are eliminated and a density of 92% to 96%
of a maximum density as determined by the Rice test has been achieved.
   It is intended that quality control density testing be done while the
bituminous mixture is hot enough to permit further compaction if necessary.
If the density does not meet the specified requirements, rolling shall
continue until the optimum density is obtained, but rolling for any
compactive effort will not be allowed when the temperature of the mix is
below 200°F.
   Any mixture that becomes loose, broken, mixed with dirt, segregated, or
is in any way defective, shall be removed and replaced with fresh hot
bituminous mixture, which shall be compacted to conform with the
surrounding area.
   Transverse joints shall have two-foot or 12:1 minimum taper.
Longitudinal joints shall have a one-foot or 6:1 minimum taper.
   All transverse tapers shall be cut and squared off prior to commencing
new work. Tapered longitudinal joints from previous operations shall be
cleaned and tack coated if directed by the inspector. All joints shall be
completely bonded, and have the same texture, density, and smoothness as
other sections of the finished pavement.
9.   UTILITIES. All underground utilities within the county right-of-way
will be buried a minimum of 42 inches.
   NOTE: These specifications are intended to be used as guidelines, and
should not be construed as limiting the authority of the owner/developer’s
engineer to design or specify such features as may be necessary to complete
the satisfactory development of the subdivision. It is recognized that each
subdivision has unique problems that need to be specifically addressed by
the engineer during the design and development phase.
10.   TESTING AND INSPECTION. It is the responsibility of the owner/
developer to retain services of a New Mexico-certified testing laboratory
or New Mexico Professional Engineer, qualified and properly equipped to
perform the necessary and sufficient testing to provide written
certification that all roads were constructed in conformance with the
requirements of these specifications.
   Tests shall include but not be limited to the following:
   Standard proctors for subgrade or backfill, and modified proctors for
pit run or crushed gravel surfacing.
Finished subgrade: 1 density per 500 feet
Pit run or crushed 1 density per 500 feet
gravel             1 sieve analysis and fractured faces per day’s run
Concrete           Temperatures, slump, entrained air each day’s pour
                   3 cylinders each day’s pour
Chip seal          1 sieve analysis and fractured faces per day’s run
Asphalt concrete   1 extraction/sieve analysis per day’s run
                   1 Rice test per day’s run
Asphalt concrete   A minimum of 2 densities per day’s run
(cont’d)         Minimum of 3 core samples for each paving project; and 3
                   core samples each 5,000 sy for projects over 5,000 sy
11.   INSPECTION.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner/developer to retain the
services of a licensed New Mexico Professional Engineer, or his or her
designee, to perform periodic inspections during each phase of construction
to ensure that the work is being performed in accordance with the
specifications. After these inspections have been conducted, a written
report shall be prepared by the inspector and distributed to the owner/
developer and Luna County Road Superintendent.
   A final inspection will be performed by the owner/developer’s engineer
and the Luna County Road Superintendent. If all items appear to be
satisfactorily completed in accordance with plans and specifications,
written certification will be provided by the engineer to the owner/
developer and to Luna County. Should this inspection reveal items that need
corrective work, a written report will be provided to the owner/developer
and Luna County listing any deficiencies to be corrected prior to final
acceptance.
12.   ANNUAL INSPECTION.
   The Luna County Road Superintendent shall conduct an annual inspection
of each road system in the approved platted subdivision to determine that
maintenance has been performed for each preceding year. A “road system” for
the purpose of this section, shall mean all roads, road surfacing,
subgrade, curbing, gutters, drainage structures and ditches. Should this
annual inspection reveal items that need corrective work, a written report
will be provided to the owner/developer and the Luna County Planning
Director listing any deficiencies to be corrected.
   Said report shall be served by personal service, or sent by prepaid
registered mail. Upon receipt of said report, the owner/developer shall
have 90 days to take corrective action to bring said road system into
compliance. Failure by the owner/developer to fulfill his or her
responsibility as agreed to by the approval of the subdivision by the Board
of County Commissioners and as disclosed in the owner/developer’s recorded
Disclosure Statement shall constitute default and non-compliance with this
section.
   Violations of the provisions of these regulations shall be shall be
subject to the provisions of § 156.999.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db482c700e8dd80f8f53f2692dd56203d2933f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1055.png]
 
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.193 AGREEMENT TO CONSTRUCTION SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS; PUBLIC, PRIVATE.
   The following is the agreement to construction subdivision improvements,
both public and private, for the county and its exhibits.
   File No.                   
   AGREEMENT TO CONSTRUCT SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS PUBLIC & PRIVATE
   THIS AGREEMENT made this ___ day of ___ ,_____, by and between Luna County, New Mexico
(hereinafter referred to as “County”) and ___________________________ (hereinafter
referred to as “Developer”) pursuant to §§
156.120 through
156.122, formally adopted in Luna County Ordinance 56,and recorded in the office of the
County Clerk of Luna County, New Mexico, in Book ___ , Page ___ et seq., ____ records.
   WHEREAS, the Developer is developing certain lands within the County of Luna, State of
New Mexico, known as_____________ (hereinafter referred to as the “subdivision”); and
whereas describing the subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, the preliminary plat submitted by the developer proposed both private and
public infrastructure improvements within the subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, §§
156.005(K),
156.051(C), and
156.120(C) of the County’s subdivision regulations required the developer to install and
construct certain public improvements at no cost to the County; and
   WHEREAS, the County requires the execution of an agreement to construct said public
improvements, together with acceptable guarantees of construction as specified below, as a
prerequisite to approval of a final plat of the Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, the Developer must obtain county approval of construction plans,
specifications, and cost estimates for the improvements. Upon County approval of such
construction plans, specifications, and cost estimates, the County is prepared to issue
the Developer a work order permitting the commencement of construction activities. Upon
execution of this agreement and payment of all required fees, all as set forth and
specified below; and
   WHEREAS, the County is willing to inspect or monitor the private inspection of the
improvements during the course of their construction and accept said improvements upon
their satisfactory completion, all as set forth and specified below; and
   WHEREAS, the Developer financially guarantees the satisfactory completion of the
infrastructure construction required herein and the payment of all labor and material
costs and charges, all as set forth and specified below.
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above, the County and Developer hereby agree as
follows:
ISSUANCE OF WORK ORDER
   1.   The Developer shall submit to the office of the Luna County Planning Director
final construction plans, specifications, and cost estimates for the proposed public
improvements, hereinafter referred as the “Subdivision Improvements Plan,” on or before
the final plat submittal date. At this time, the Developer shall pay all fees required in
the County Land Subdivision Regulations and paragraph 3 of this agreement.
   2.   After execution of this agreement, payment of all applicable fees as specified in
paragraph 3, delivery of the financial guarantee specified in paragraph 16, and
certificate of public liability insurance, as specified in paragraph 23, below, the
Developer shall be issued a work order by the County. The Developer shall advise the
office of the Luna County Planning Director in advance of the actual start of construction
and arrange for all inspections required and specified in paragraph 7 through 13. The
Developer shall permit the County or other participating agencies to make such tests and
inspections during the construction of the improvements and upon completion of the
improvements as are necessary or desirable.
   3.   Prior to issuance of a work order, the Developer shall pay to the county the
following fees:
   Type of Fee                         Amount
   ___________________                 ___________________
   ___________________                 ___________________
   Total                               $______
Prior to final acceptance of the improvements by the County, the Developer shall pay any
other county fees, which may have been incurred during the course of construction.
COMMITMENT TO CONSTRUCT IMPROVEMENTS
   4.   The Developer shall, on or before the ____ day of _______, complete to the
satisfaction of the County the improvements required for the subdivision as set forth in
the Developer’s Subdivision Improvement Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit A and
incorporated herein by reference.
The time limitation stated above may be extended by the County Planning Director for a
period not to exceed 12 months if the Developer shows adequate reasons for said extension.
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION METHODS
   5.   The Developer has engaged _________________ as engineer(s) for the construction
project, who are registered professional engineers in the State of New Mexico. Developer
shall ensure that the engineer(s), in such capacity, shall provide the following services
prior to, during, and after construction of the improvements:
      ____________________________________________________________________________
The Developer shall ensure that the engineers performs all of the above services in a
satisfactory manner and submits to the office of the Luna County Manager any reports
required by the County.
   6.   The Developer has engaged _______________________ as contractor, who is properly
licensed in the State of New Mexico. The Developer shall ensure that the contractor, in
such capacity, shall in a manner satisfactory to the County construct the improvements as
shown on Developer’s proposed subdivision improvements plan (Project No.__), incorporating
any change orders approved by the office of the Luna County Manager, and all other
applicable laws, regulations, and policies.
FINAL ACCEPTANCE PACKAGE
   7.   The Developer shall report the completion of construction in writing to the office
of the Luna County Planning Director. Upon receipt of the report, the County reviewing
staff shall visually inspect the public improvements to verify completion of construction
according to plan. Subsequent to verification, the Developer shall submit to the office of
the County Planner a final acceptance package, which shall consist of the following
documents;
         a.   As-built drawings of reproducible quality, depicting all construction of the
public improvements as actually accomplished in the field and certified by a New Mexico
Registered Professional Engineer or Land Surveyor, as appropriate.
         b.   A list of quantities of construction items in place, using the bid items in
a state-approved list of standard estimated unit prices. This list shall be divided into
the following categories as applicable:
               1.   Sanitary sewer items and quantities;
               2.   Water service items and quantities;
               3.   Street paving quantities;
               4.   Street curb and gutter quantities; and
               5.   Storm drainage improvements and quantities.
         c.   The Developer shall either provide certification by a New Mexico registered
professional engineer that the required private improvements have been constructed in
compliance with approved plans and specification or the Developer shall make necessary
arrangements for certification by the office of the Luna County Planning Director that the
required improvements are satisfactorily completed.
         If the County is acting as the contractor for any portion of the improvement
constructed pursuant to this agreement, the County shall prepare its own final acceptance
package documents for those improvements actually constructed by the County.
   8.   Upon receipt of the Developer’s “final acceptance package,” the Luna County
reviewing staff shall review it for completeness and accuracy. If the documentation has
been satisfactorily completed, the office of the Luna County Planning Director shall
approve the package and issue a certificate of completion and acceptance. Any financial
guarantee provided by the Developer in accordance with § 156.071 of the county’s land
subdivision regulation between the developer and the County (“125% financial guarantee”)
shall be released no later than 60 days after approval of the final acceptance package by
the reviewing staff and/or County Engineer.
CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION METHODS
   9.   Inspection of the subdivision improvement construction shall be performed by
_________________ on all private facilities and by __________________ on all public
facilities, being New Mexico registered professional engineers, in accordance with all
applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations. If said inspection is performed by an entity
other than the County, the County may monitor said inspection and the developer shall
ensure that the inspection entity provides all inspection results, reports, and related
data to the County as required for review. The County retains the right to perform its own
general overall inspection of the construction project at any time prior to final
acceptance of the improvements if deemed necessary or advisable by the office of the Luna
County Planning Director. For any inspections performed by the County, the Developer shall
pay to the County a reasonable fee therefor.
CONSTRUCTION SURVEYING
   10.   Construction surveying for the subdivision improvement project shall be performed
by ______________ on all private facilities and by _____________ on all public facilities
in accordance with all applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations. If said construction
surveying is performed by an entity other than the county, the County may monitor said
construction surveying and the Developer shall ensure that the construction surveying
entity provides all construction surveying filed notes, plat, report, and related data to
the County as required for review. If any construction surveying is performed by the
County, the Developer shall pay to the County a reasonable fee therefor.
FIELD TESTING
   11.   Field testing of the subdivision improvement construction shall be performed
by_____________ on all private facilities and by ______________ on all public facilities,
being a certified testing laboratory under the supervision of a New Mexico registered
professional engineer, in accordance with the technical standards contained in the
applicable contract documents and all applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations. If any
field testing is performed by an entity other than the County, the County may monitor said
field testing and the Developer shall ensure that the field testing entity provides all
field testing results, and reports related to the County as required for review. If any
field testing is performed by the County, the Developer shall pay to the County a
reasonable fee therefor.
RECORD TESTING
   12.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, above, the County retains the
right to perform any and all record testing which may be deemed necessary or advisable by
the office of the Luna County Planning Director or the Developer.
   13.   The county shall make available at established reproduction costs for the use of
the Developer or its agents all of its maps, records, laboratory tests, or other data
pertinent to the work to be performed by the developer or its agent pursuant to this
agreement and also any other maps, records, or other materials available to the County
upon the County’s request to any other public agency or body.
FINAL GUARANTEE
   14.   The Developer shall provide financial guarantees for the completion of all
subdivision improvements.
   15.   On or before submittal for final plat approval for the subdivision, the Developer
is required to submit a financial guarantee in an amount of not less than 125% of the
costs of completing the improvements (as estimated by the office of the Luna County
Planning Director) pursuant to the County’s land subdivision regulations. Such financial
guarantee must be irrevocable in form and may be affected by a bond, letter of credit,
escrow deposit, or other acceptable pledge of liquid assets payable to the county in the
event of developer’s default under the Subdivision Improvement Agreement. See Exhibit 1
and 2 attached to this form.
   16.   With respect to this agreement, the Developer has acquired or is able to acquire
the following described financial guarantee (describe fully, indicate amount,
identification number, names of bank or bonding entity, inclusive dates of guarantee, and
all other relevant information):
      A copy of this financial guarantee is attached hereto as “Exhibit _______.”
   17.   The Developer understands and agrees that the original executed financial
guarantee described above must be delivered to the county simultaneously with the County’s
execution of this agreement; and must be in an amount of not less than 125% of the cost of
completing the improvements, as estimated by the office of the Luna Planning Director.
   18.   In the event the Developer shall fail or neglect to fulfill his or her
obligations under this agreement, the County shall have the right to construct or cause to
be constructed the improvements specified herein, as shown on the preliminary or final
plats and in the plans and specifications as approved. The Developer as principal, and the
surety or sureties, shall be jointly and severally liable to pay to and indemnify the
County, the total cost to the County thereof, including, but not limited to, engineering,
legal, and contingent costs together with any damages, either direct or consequential,
which the County may sustain on account of the failure of the developer to carry out and
execute all of the provisions of this agreement. The County shall have the unconditional
right to call upon the financial guarantee provided by the Developer, described in
paragraph 16 for the purpose specified and in the amounts enumerated in such guarantee.
PROCEDURE FOR REDUCTION OF FINANCIAL GUARANTEE UPON PARTIAL COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS
   19.   The Developer may request a reduction in the amount of financial guarantee upon
partial completion of the subdivision improvements. To qualify for a financial guarantee
reduction, the completed improvements must be of a freestanding nature, functionally
independent of any uncompleted improvements, and completed in substantial compliance with
the subdivision improvement construction plans as determined by an inspection conducted by
the County.
   20.   If the completed improvements meet the above requirements, the County Road
Superintendent will then estimate the cost of completing the remaining improvements. The
Developer may then submit the following documents to the County for review and approval:
         a.   A revised financial guarantee in an amount of not less than 125% of the Luna
County Planning Director’s estimated cost of the completing the remaining improvements.
         b.   A release of the original financial guarantee for execution by the County.
         c.   Documentation that the completed improvements and the land in which the
completed improvements are located are subject to no liens, claims, or other encumbrances.
         d.   A bond or other suitable instrument guaranteeing the completed improvements
against defective materials and workmanship for a period of three years, as set forth in
paragraph 25 of this Subdivision Improvement Agreement, between the Developer and the
County.
   21.   Upon receipt of the above-described documents in the forms acceptable to the
County, the County shall issue a certificate of completion and acceptance for the
completed improvements and shall accept the revised financial guarantee tendered by the
Developer for the improvements remaining to be completed.
LIABILITY
   22.   Until acceptance of the improvements by the County, the Developer shall be solely
responsible for maintaining the premises being subdivided in a safe condition. The
Developer agrees to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the County and its officers,
agents, and employees from and against all suits, actions, or claims of any character
brought because of any injury or damage arising out of the design or construction of the
improvements, or by reason of any act or omission, or misconduct of the Developer, his or
her agents, employees, or the engineer or contractor, or their agents or employees. The
indemnity required hereunder shall not be limited by reason of the specifications of any
particular insurance coverage in this agreement. Nothing herein is intended to impair any
right or indemnity under the laws of the State of New Mexico.
   23.   The developer shall procure, or cause to be procured, and maintain public
liability insurance in amount of not less than $1,000,000 for accidents or occurrence
which cause bodily injury, death, or property damage to any member of the public resulting
from any condition of the lands of the subdivision improvements therein or the
construction activities thereon. The insurance policy must name Luna County, its
employees, and elected officials, as their interest may appear, as additional insured. The
Developer shall maintain such insurance until acceptance of the construction of all of the
improvements by the County. Any cancellation provision must provide that if the policy is
canceled prior to the expiration date hereof, materially changed, or not renewed, the
issuing company will mail 30 days’ written notice to the County, attention County Planning
Director. The Developer shall furnish the County Engineer a certificate of said insurance
prior to issuance of a work order for construction of the improvements.
TITLE OF REAL PROPERTY
   24.   If at the time that construction of the project is completed the County does not
own the real property on or in which the improvements are constructed, the Developer shall
convey such real property and property rights as the County deems necessary, together with
all improvements, to the County free and clear of all claims, encumbrances, and liens
prior to final acceptance of the improvements by the County. Dedication on the final plat
of the subdivision may be an appropriate conveyance.
GUARANTEE OF WORKMANSHIP AND MATERIALS
   25.   At the time of acceptance of the completed improvements or any portion thereof by
the County, the Developer shall furnish or cause to be furnished a bond or other suitable
guarantee in a form and with a surety satisfactory to the County to guarantee the
completed project against defective materials and workmanship for a period of three years
following the date of acceptance by the County. This guarantee shall not be less than 100%
of the total completed cost of improvements.
ASSIGNMENT OF AGREEMENT
   26.   This agreement shall not be assigned except with the written consent of the
parties hereto and the express written concurrence of any surety who has undertaken to
guarantee the completion of the improvements. If so assigned, the agreement shall extend
to and be binding upon the successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
   27.   In the event of the sale, conveyance, or assignment of the subdivision or any
portion thereof, the County will not release the developer from its obligations under this
agreement and will continue to hold the Developer responsible for all improvements until a
successor in interest to the Developer responsible for all improvements has posted a
suitable guarantee and entered into a subdivision improvement agreement with the County.
At such time as acceptable security has been posted by the Developer’s successor in
interest and the agreement executed, the County will release the guarantee.
      Should there be a conflict between the terms and conditions of this agreement and
the terms and conditions of any other document referred to herein, the terms and
conditions of this agreement shall govern.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this agreement of the date first
above written.
DEVELOPER                              COUNTY OF LUNA, NEW MEXICO
______________________________________ _____________________________________
(Signature)                            By__________________________________
______________________________________    Chairperson
Name                                    
______________________________________ ____________________________________
Title                                  County Manager
                                       
REVIEWED BY:                           ATTEST:
                                       
_____________________________________  ___________________________________
County Attorney                        County Clerk
                                       
STATE OF NEW MEXICO         )  
                  ) S 
COUNTY OF LUNA            ) 
   The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ________ day of
______________, 20____, by
______________________ of ___________________________.
                                       
My commission expires:                    ___________________________________
____________________________                    NOTARY PUBLIC
EXHIBIT 1
   File No. ________________
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS BOND
KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS: That we _______________________________________________ as
principal, and
(name of developer, corporation, partnership, etc.)
_________________ a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of
the State of _____________ and
(name of surety)
authorized to do business in the State of New Mexico, as surety, are held and firmly bound
unto Luna County in the penal sum of ______________ dollars ___________________ the
payment of which well and truly to be made, and each of us bind
(amount written) ($ amount in figures)
ourselves, our and each of our heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns,
jointly and severally, firmly by these presents.
   NOW THEREFORE, the condition of the above obligation is such that:
   WHEREAS, said subdivision is subject to the provisions and conditions of the ordinance
of Luna County know as the Land Subdivision Regulations, which regulation requires, among
other things, the installation of various roads and other improvements by said principal;
and
   WHEREAS, under said Subdivision Regulations the said Principal in
_________________________ Subdivision is required “as
(name of subdivision)
part of his responsibility” to install and construct the following improvements:
(NAME OF IMPROVEMENTS, I.E. WATER, SEWER, PAVING, SIDEWALK)
All construction shall be performed in accordance with the agreement to construct
subdivision improvements entered into between _________________ aud Luna County, as
recorded in the office of the Clerk of Luna County, New Mexico at Book
(name of developer)
Misc. _______________, pages through __________.
   NOW THEREFORE, if the above bounden principal shall well and truly install and
construct the said described improvements and facilities and perform the work herein above
specified to be performed, all on or before __________ then this obligation shall be null
and void.
(date)
 
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, these presents have been executed this ______________ day of
___________, 20___.
NAME OF DEVELOPER
(Corporation, partnership, etc.)
By: _________________________________________ lts: _______________
      (NAME)
Subdivision Improvement Bond
NAME OF SURETY:
BY: ___________________________________________________
      (NAME AND TITLE)
STATE OF NEW MEXICO)
                ) SS.
COUNTY OF LUNA    )
Subscribed and sworn to before me this _____________ day of ___________________, 20___.
My commission expires: _________________________
Notary Public: _______________________________ Seal:
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
___________________________________
COUNTY ATTORNEY
NOTE: Power of attorney for surety need to be attached.
EXHIBIT 2
   File No. _________________
IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT AND AGREEMENT NO. __________
AMOUNT: ________________
County Manager
Luna County
P.O. Box 551
Deming, NM 88031
________________________
________________________
________________________
Dear Mr. _________________,
   At the request of _________________________________________, we establish our
irrevocable letter of credit in your
(name) a (corporation/partnership, etc.)
favor for the account of ______________, to the extent of and not exceeding
_______________________.
(repeat above) (amount written) ($ figures)
   
   This letter of credit has been established to ensure the completion of
________________________. As provided by the
(description of activity)
agreement between ____________ and Luna County which agreement is recorded in Book Misc.
______, at pages ____ to ____,
(repeat name)
of the records of the County of Luna, State of New Mexico ________________. A draft or
drafts for any amount up to, but
(the “agreement”)
not in excess of ______________ ________ is/are available at sight at
(______________________) between (____) and (____),
(amount written) (figures) (name of bank/city, state) (date) (date)
20___.
   When presented, the draft(s) is/are to be accompanied by the following document:
   The county’s notarized certification stating that ______________, has failed to comply
with the terms of the agreement,
(repeat name)
and also certifying that “the undersigned is County Manager of Luna County and is
authorized to sign this statement,” and also certifying that the amount of the draft does
not exceed 125% of the cost of completing the improvements specified in the agreement.
   We hereby agree with the drawer of draft(s) drawn and under and in compliance with the
terms of this credit that such draft(s) will be duly honored on the presentation to the
drawee if negotiated between _____ and _____, 20___.
(date) (date)
   The draft(s) drawn under this credit must be endorsed and contain the clause: “Drawn
under letter of credit and agreement no. _____ of (_____________________), date
__________;” the amount of such draft(s) must be endorsed on the
(name of bank/city/state)
reverse side thereof, and this letter of credit must be attached to that draft which
exhausts this credit.
   This credit is subject to the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits
(1983 Revision), International Chamber of Commerce, and Publication No. 400.
   This credit terminates at __________________ o’clock p.m., New Mexico time, _______,
20___.
(date)
   NAME OF BANK
   ________________________________
   (Name of title of authorized person)
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
LUNA COUNTY
_______________________________
COUNTY ATTORNEY
 
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.194 FLOW CHARTS.
   (A)   Adopting, amending, or repealing county subdivision regulations.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db482c700e8dd80f8f53f2692dd56203d2933f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1057.png]
 
   (B)   Preliminary plat review for Subdivision Types 1, 2, 3, and 4.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db482c700e8dd80f8f53f2692dd56203d2933f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1059.png]
 
   (C)   Final plat for Subdivision Types 1, 2, 3, and 4.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db482c700e8dd80f8f53f2692dd56203d2933f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1061.png]
 
   (D)   Final plat for summary review; Subdivision Types 3 and 5.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db482c700e8dd80f8f53f2692dd56203d2933f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1063.png]
 
   (E)   Appealing decisions on preliminary or final plats.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db482c700e8dd80f8f53f2692dd56203d2933f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1065.png]
 
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   Violations of the provisions of these regulations shall be subject to the
following penalties, remedies, and enforcement procedures.
   (A)   Utility connections.
      (1)   Any water, sewer, electric, or gas utility that connects service to
individual parcels within a subdivision before a final plat for the subdivision
has been approved by the Board of County Commissioners, or before the landowner
holds a valid building permit, may be fined a civil penalty of up to $500 by
the Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners may also require that any utility
connected in violation of this section and of NMSA § 47-6-27.2 be disconnected.
   (B)   Suspension of right of sale.
      (1)   The Board of County Commissioners may suspend or revoke approval of
a plat as to unsold, unleased, or otherwise not conveyed portions of a
subdivider’s plat if the subdivider does not meet the schedule of compliance
approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   The decision to suspend or revoke approval of a plat shall be
recorded in the County Clerk’s office in such a fashion as to provide recorded
notice of the suspension or revocation.
   (C)   Injunctive relief, mandamus. The Board of County Commissioners, the
District Attorney, or the Attorney General may apply to the District Court for
any one or more of the following remedies in connection with violations of the
State Subdivision Act, being NMSA §§ 47-6-1 et seq., and these regulations:
      (1)   Injunctive relief to prohibit a subdivider from selling, leasing,
or otherwise conveying any interest in subdivided land until the subdivider
complies with the terms of the State Subdivision Act and these regulations;
      (2)   Injunctive relief to compel compliance by any person with the
provisions of the State Subdivision Act or these regulations;
      (3)   Rescission and restitution for a person who has purchased, leased,
or otherwise acquired an interest in subdivided land that was divided, sold,
leased, or otherwise conveyed in material violation of the State Subdivision
Act and these regulations; or
      (4)   A civil penalty of up to $5,000 for each parcel created in knowing,
intentional, or willful violation of the State Subdivision Act or these
regulations.
   (D)   Bond not required. The Board of County Commissioners, the District
Attorney, and the Attorney General shall not be required to post bond when
seeking a temporary or permanent injunction or mandamus according to the
provisions of the State Subdivision Act.
   (E)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   NMSA § 47-6-27 provides that:
         (a)   Any person who knowingly, intentionally, or willfully commits a
material violation of the State Subdivision Act is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not more than $10,000 per violation, or by imprisonment
of not more than one year, or both; and
         (b)   Any person who is convicted of a second or subsequent knowing,
intentional, or willful violation of the State Subdivision Act is guilty of a
fourth degree felony, punishable by a fine of not more than $25,000 per
violation or by imprisonment for not more than 18 months, or both.
      (2)   Any violation of the provisions of these regulations not subject to
NMSA § 47-6-27 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $400 or imprisonment for
not more than 90 days, or both, in accordance with NMSA § 4-37-3.
(Ord. 56, passed - -)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to New Mexico Statutes Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEW MEXICO STATUTES ANNOTATED
New Mexico Statutes Annotated Code Section
New Mexico Statutes Annotated Code Section
3-18-7                        153.01
3-20-5                        156.002
3-20-6                        156.002
3-20-9                        156.002
3-36-1—3-36-6               90.41
3-48-1 et seq.                50.01
3-48-4 et seq.                50.08
                              34.01;
4-37-1                        50.01;
                              151.25
4-37-1—4-37-3               91.02
                              50.02;
4-37-1 et seq.                51.01;
                              156.002;
                              156.091
                              51.04;
                              51.99;
                              90.99;
4-37-3                        91.99;
                              110.99;
                              151.99;
                              156.999
4-37-4                        51.04
4-37-6                        35.003
4-37-7                        35.003
4-38-13                       151.25
4-38-18                       151.25
4-56-1 et seq.                50.01;
                              50.02
4-57-2                        31.046
5-8-1—5-8-41                156.006
                              93.02;
6-27-1 et seq.                93.03;
                              93.04
6-27-5(B)                     93.03
7-2A-1 et seq.                110.22;
                              110.24
7-2A-8.3                      110.22;
                              110.24
7-36-20                       156.006;
                              156.190
7-37-38                       34.01
7-38-37                       33.16
7-38-38                       34.01
10-7E-1 et seq.               31.019;
                              31.020
10-7E-10(B)—10-7E-10(J)     31.020
10-8-1 et seq.                31.020;
                              31.050
10-11-1 et seq.               31.026
10-15-1 et seq.               31.053;
                              156.089
13-1-21                       110.23
13-1-111                      110.23
14-2-1 et seq.                31.024
14-8-4                        156.055
14-9-1                        156.054
14-20-1 et seq.               155.02
14-20-6—14-20-8             155.08
14-40-14—14-40-24           155.20
14-40-15                      155.21
14-40-20(C)                   155.29
14-40-20(D)                   155.29
14-40-20(E)                   155.29
14-40-20(F)                   155.29
14-40-20(G)                   155.29
14-40-20(H)                   155.29
14-40-20(I)                   155.29
14-40-20(J)                   155.29
14-40-21(A)                   155.30
14-40-21(B)                   155.30
14-40-21(C)                   155.30
14-40-21(D)                   155.30
14-40-21(E)                   155.30
14-40-22                      155.31
18-6-1—18-6-17              156.155
18-6-1 et seq.                156.039
18-6-8-1                      156.036
18-6-11.2                     156.092
Chapter 27, Article 5         35.080
27-5                          35.091
27-5-4(G)                     35.082;
                              35.087
28-11-2                       92.002
30-12-14                      90.23
30-31-1 et seq.               92.002
30-31-2                       131.06
30-37-1—30-37-8             114.01
32A-1-1                       92.004
40-37-03                      50.99
41-4-9                        151.27
44-7A-1 et seq.               31.026;
                              31.027
47-5-1 et seq.                156.002
                              156.002;
                              156.005;
                              156.006;
                              156.039;
                              156.052;
                              156.055;
47-6-1 et seq.                156.071;
                              156.090;
                              156.091;
                              156.152;
                              156.170;
                              156.190;
                              156.999
47-6-17                       156.006
47-6-27                       156.999
47-6-27.2                     156.999
47-6-9(A)(17)                 156.055
47-8-1—47-8-52              93.04
47-8-33                       93.04
47-9-1—47-9-4               156.052
47-9-1 et seq.                156.052
58-18-1—58-18-27            93.03
60-3A-3                       130.22
61-23-1 et seq.               156.006
62-1-2                        151.25
62-1-3                        151.25
62-3-1 et seq.                151.25;
                              156.150
66-1-1 et seq.                70.03
66-1-4.6                      70.04;
                              70.05
66-1-16                       70.05
                              70.01;
66-3-1001 et seq.             70.02;
                              70.03
66-3-1020                     70.03
66-4-1                        113.15
66-5-201 et seq.              70.03
67-3-16                       156.036
68-2-23                       91.02
68-5-1 et seq.                91.02
72-5-1                        156.052;
                              156.150
72-5-23                       156.052;
                              156.150
72-5-24                       156.052;
                              156.150
                              150.04;
72-12-1                       156.006;
                              156.150
72-12-3                       156.052;
                              156.150
72-12-7                       156.052;
                              156.150
74-1-1—74-1-10              156.035
74-1-6                        156.035
Chapter 74, Article 4         90.99
                              50.99;
74-4-1 et seq.                50.02;
                              51.02;
                              51.99
74-6-1 et seq.                156.036
74-9-1                        156.036
                              150.26;
74-12-1—74-12-11            156.106;
                              156.107
77-1-3                        92.002
77-1-20                       92.016
                              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     91.01—
25-47    7-10-2025   91.08;
                     91.99
25-53    7-10-2025   35.065
25-69    9-11-2025   35.050—
                     35.054
25-82    11-13-2025  35.080—
                     35.095
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     156.001—
                     156.007;
                     156.020—
                     156.022;
                     156.035—
                     156.039;
                     156.050—
                     156.056;
                     156.070;
                     156.071;
                     156.085—
                     156.092;
56       - -         156.105—
                     156.107;
                     156.120—
                     156.122;
                     156.135;
                     156.136;
                     156.150—
                     156.155;
                     156.170;
                     156.171;
                     156.185—
                     156.194;
                     156.999
4A       12-27-1978  155.20—
                     155.31
4B       3-15-1979   155.01—
                     155.09
7        7-14-1983   34.01
84-8     11-6-1984   34.45
                     111.01—
11       3-19-1986   111.05;
                     111.99
                     114.01—
14       6-8-1990    114.04;
                     114.99
17       11-8-1991   35.035
26       7-12-1994   35.036
27       1-10-1995   34.48
29       6-14-1996   31.045—
                     31.055
                     130.01—
31       8-14-1997   130.05;
                     130.99
                     151.25—
                     151.38;
42       6-29-2000   151.99;
                     Ch. 151, App. A;
                     Ch. 151, App. B;
                     Ch. 151, App. C
46       4-12-2001   32.01—
                     32.05
                     50.01—
50       10-21-2002  50.12;
                     50.99
55       11-5-2004   34.48
57       11-5-2004   90.25;
                     90.99
61       10-27-2005  34.46
                     51.01—
63       12-6-2005   51.04;
                     51.99
60       12-29-2006  34.48
65       2-1-2007    34.48
66       2-1-2007    34.48
                     92.135—
69       12-13-2007  92.137;
                     92.999
70       12-13-2007  92.004
                     90.01—
                     90.06;
                     90.20—
                     90.24;
                     90.40—
                     90.44;
74       4-8-2010    90.55—
                     90.59;
                     90.99;
                     112.01—
                     112.05;
                     113.01;
                     113.15—
                     113.17
                     150.01—
                     150.04;
                     150.15—
75       8-12-2010   150.29;
                     150.40—
                     150.45;
                     150.99
                     152.01—
77       10-14-2010  152.25;
                     152.99
                     131.01—
80       1-13-2011   131.07;
                     131.99
                     153.01—
                     153.12;
                     153.25—
81       2-9-2012    153.28;
                     153.40—
                     153.42;
                     153.99
                     110.20—
82       6-14-2012   110.26;
                     110.99
                     91.01;
84       7-11-2013   91.02;
                     91.04;
                     91.99
                     152.40—
91       12-16-2014  152.44;
                     152.99
92       2-17-2015   34.48
                     130.20—
95       12-10-2015  130.28;
                     130.99
99       9-10-2020   31.070—
                     31.079
54       12-10-2020  31.015—
                     31.032
102      4-8-2021    33.01;
                     33.02
103      4-8-2021    34.30;
                     34.31
104      7-8-2021    35.015—
                     35.022
107      8-12-2021   154.20;
                     154.21
                     92.001—
                     92.003;
                     92.015—
                     92.020;
                     92.035—
                     92.045;
                     92.060;
98       11-10-2021  92.075—
                     92.077;
                     92.090—
                     92.092;
                     92.105;
                     92.106;
                     92.120;
                     92.121;
                     92.999
108      11-10-2021  30.01
111      4-27-2022   35.001—
                     35.004
                     154.01—
53       10-24-2022  154.07;
                     154.99
101      11-14-2022  33.15—
                     33.18
23       12-19-2022  31.001
76       7-13-2023   34.15—
                     34.18
112      7-13-2023   70.01—
                     70.05
117      11-16-2023  93.01—
                     93.06
2        12-14-2023  34.47
                     110.01—
5        12-14-2023  110.06;
                     110.99
                     151.01—
118      3-13-2025   151.10;
                     151.99
                    
 
