CITY OF EUREKA, KANSAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2026 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through December 8, 2025 
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER I: ADMINISTRATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   GOVERNING BODY
      
3.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
4.   PERSONNEL POLICY AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
      
5.   OATHS AND BONDS
      
6.   OPEN RECORDS
      
7.   INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-101   Code designated
   
1-102   Definitions
   
1-103   Existing ordinances
   
1-104   Effect of repeal
   
1-105   Catchlines of sections
   
1-106   Parenthetical and reference matter
   
1-107   Amendments; repeal
   
1-108   Ordinances
   
1-109   Same; subject and title; amendment
   
1-110   Same; publication
   
1-111   Same; ordinance book
   
1-112   Resolutions, motions
   
1-113   City records
   
1-114   Altering code
   
1-115   Scope of application
   
1-116   General penalty
   
1-117   Severability
   
1-118   Bad Check charge
§ 1-101 CODE DESIGNATED.
   The chapters, articles and sections herein shall constitute and be
designated as “The Code of the City of Eureka, Kansas”, and may be so cited.
The code may also be cited as the “Eureka City Code”.
§ 1-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Eureka, Kansas.
   CODE. The code of the City of Eureka, Kansas.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   COUNTY. The County of Greenwood in the State of Kansas.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears requiring or
authorizing the head of a department or officer of the city to do some act or
perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required
act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate
otherwise.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and City Council of the city, or those persons
appointed to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor or the Council as provided
in this code.
   IN THE CITY. Includes all territory in which the city now has, or shall
hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other
regulatory powers.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the
plural include the singular.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the word “swear” is
equivalent to the word “affirm”.
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND THE LIKE. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to in this code shall mean officers,
departments, boards, commissions and employees of the city, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include not only the owner of
the whole but any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint tenant of
the whole or a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a firm, partnership, association of persons, corporation,
organization or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal and mixed property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments, and all rights
thereto and interest therein, equitable as well as legal.
   SHALL, MAY. SHALL is mandatory and MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write, when
his or her name is written near such mark, and is witnessed by a person who
writes his or her own name as a witness.
   STATE. The State of Kansas.
   STREET. Includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other
public thoroughfares in the city.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, whether alone or with others.
   TENSES. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
   WRITING or WRITTEN. May include printing, engraving, lithography and any
other mode of representing words and letters, except those cases where the
written signature or the mark of any person is required by law.
   YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
§ 1-103 EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are in substance the
same as those of ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this
code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 1-104 EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive an ordinance previously
repealed, nor shall such repeal affect any right that has accrued, any duty
imposed, any penalty incurred, or any proceeding commenced under or by virtue
of the ordinance repealed, except as shall be expressly stated therein.
§ 1-105 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the sections of this code printed in capital letters are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of any
section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any
section, including its catchline, is amended or reenacted.
§ 1-106 PARENTHETICAL AND REFERENCE MATTER.
   The matter in parenthesis at the ends of sections is only for information
purposes and is not a part of the code. Citations indicate only the source and
the text may or may not be changed by this code. This code is a new enactment
under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-3014 and 12-3015. Reference matter not in
parenthesis is only for information purposes and is not a part of this code.
§ 1-107 AMENDMENTS; REPEAL.
   Any portion of this code may be amended by specific reference to the section
number as follows: “Section _____ of the code of the City of Eureka is hereby
amended to read as follows: (the new provisions shall then be set out in full).
. .” A new section not heretofore existing in the code may be added as follows:
“The code of the City of Eureka is hereby amended by adding a section (or
article or chapter) which reads as follows: . . .(the new provisions shall be
set out in full). .” All sections, or articles, or chapters to be repealed
shall be repealed by specific reference as follows: “Section (or article or
chapter) __________ of the code of the City of Eureka is hereby repealed”.
§ 1-108 ORDINANCES.
   The governing body shall have the care, management and control of the city
and its finances, and shall pass all ordinances needed for the welfare of the
city. All ordinances shall be valid when a majority of all the members-elect of
the City Council shall vote in favor. Where the number of favorable votes is
one less than required, the Mayor shall have power to cast the deciding vote in
favor of the ordinance.
(K.S.A. 12-3002)
§ 1-109 SAME; SUBJECT AND TITLE; AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall contain more than one subject, which shall be clearly
expressed in its title; and no section or sections of an ordinance shall be
amended unless the amending ordinance contains the entire section or sections
as amended and the section or sections amended shall be repealed.
§ 1-110 SAME; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   No ordinance, except those appropriating money, shall be in force
until published in the official city newspaper by the City Clerk. One
publication of any such ordinance shall be sufficient unless additional
publications are required by statute or ordinance. The publisher of the
newspaper shall prefix such published ordinance by a line in brackets stating
the month, day and year of such publication.
   (b)   In lieu of subsection (a) above, the city may opt to publish a summary
of an ordinance so long as:
      (1)   The publication is identified as a “summary” and contains notice
that the complete text of the ordinance may be obtained or viewed free of
charge at the office of the City Clerk;
      (2)   The City Attorney certifies the summary of the ordinance prior to
publication to ensure that the summary is legally accurate and sufficient; and
      (3)   The publication contains the city’s official website address where
a reproduction of the original ordinance is available for a minimum of one week
following the summary publication in the newspaper.
   (c)   If an ordinance is subject to petition pursuant to state law, then the
summary shall contain a statement that the ordinance is subject to petition.
(K.S.A. 12-3007)
§ 1-111 SAME; ORDINANCE BOOK.
   (a)   Following final passage and approval of each ordinance, the City Clerk
shall enter the same in the ordinance book of the city as provided by law.
   (b)   Each ordinance shall have appended thereto the manner in which the
ordinance was passed, the date of passage, the page of the journal containing
the record of the final vote on its passage, the name of the newspaper in which
published and the date of publication.
(K.S.A. 12-3008)
§ 1-112 RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS.
   Except where a state statute or city ordinance specifically requires
otherwise, all resolutions and motions shall be passed if voted upon favorably
by a majority present at a meeting of the City Council.
§ 1-113 CITY RECORDS.
   The City Clerk or any other officer or employee having custody of city
records and documents shall maintain such records and documents in accordance
with K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121 inclusive, which is incorporated by reference
herein as if set out in full and as provided in the State Open Records Act and
the city policy regarding open public records.
(K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121)
§ 1-114 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend
by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby. This restriction shall not apply to amendments or revisions of this
code authorized by ordinance duly adopted by the governing body.
§ 1-115 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   Any person convicted of doing any of the acts or things prohibited, made
unlawful, or the failing to do any of the things commanded to be done, as
specified and set forth in this code, shall be deemed in violation of this code
and punished in accordance with §
1-116. Each day any violation of this code continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
§ 1-116 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever any offense is declared by any provision of this code, absent a
specific or unique punishment prescribed, the offender shall be punished in
accordance with this section:
   (a)   A fine of not more than $1,000;
   (b)   Imprisonment in jail for not more than 179 days; or
   (c)   Both such fine and imprisonment not to exceed subsections (a) and (b)
above.
§ 1-117 SEVERABILITY.
   If for any reason any chapter, article, section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this code or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is declared to be unconstitutional or invalid or unenforceable,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
code.
§ 1-118 BAD CHECK CHARGE.
   There is hereby established a bad check charge of $30 for all insufficient
fund checks written to the city.
(Ord. 3996, passed - -)
ARTICLE 2: GOVERNING BODY
Section
   
1-201   Governing body
   
1-202   Same; powers generally
   
1-203   Same; meetings
   
1-204   Same; quorum
   
1-205   Powers of the Mayor
   
1-206   President of the Council
   
1-207   Administrative powers
   
1-208   Vacancies in governing body; how filled
   
1-209   Compensation
   
1-210   Expenses
   
1-211   Incorporating Code of Procedure for Kansas cities
   
1-212   Code of Ethics
§ 1-201 GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body shall consist of a Mayor and City Council to be elected
as set out in Ch. VI of this code.
§ 1-202 SAME; POWERS GENERALLY.
   All powers exercised by cities of the second class, or which shall hereafter
be conferred upon them, shall be exercised by the governing body, subject to
such limitations as prescribed by law. All executive and administrative
authority granted or limited by law shall be vested in the Mayor and City
Council as governing body of the city.
(K.S.A. 12-103)
§ 1-203 SAME; MEETINGS.
   (a)   Regular meetings of the governing body shall be held on the second and
fourth Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m. In the event the regular meeting day
shall fall on any legal holiday or any day observed as a holiday by the city
offices, the governing body shall fix the succeeding day not observed as a
holiday as a meeting day.
   (b)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or Acting Mayor, on the
written request of any three members of the Council specifying the object and
purpose of such meeting, which request shall be read at a meeting and entered
at length on the journal.
   (c)   Regular or special meetings of the governing body may be adjourned for
the completion of its business at such subsequent time and place as the
governing body shall determine in its motion to adjourn.
(K.S.A. 14-111)
§ 1-204 SAME; QUORUM.
   In all cases, it shall require a majority of the Council-elect to constitute
a quorum to do business.
(K.S.A. 14-111)
§ 1-205 POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   (a)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the governing body. The
Mayor shall have the tie-breaking vote on all questions when the members
present are equally divided.
   (b)   The Mayor shall:
      (1)   Have the superintending control of all officers and affairs of the
city;
      (2)   Take care that the ordinances of the city are complied with;
      (3)   Sign the commissions and appointments of all officers elected or
appointed;
      (4)   Endorse the approval of the governing body on all official bonds;
      (5)   From time to time communicate to the City Council such information
and recommend such measures as he or she may deem advisable;
      (6)   Have the power to approve or veto any ordinance as the laws of the
state shall prescribe; and
      (7)   Sign all orders and drafts drawn upon the city treasury for money.
§ 1-206 PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body as President of the
Council. The President of the Council shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of both the Mayor and the
President of the Council, the Council shall elect one of its members as “Acting
President of the Council”. The President and Acting President, when occupying
the place of Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other Council members,
but shall exercise no veto.
(K.S.A. 14-204)
§ 1-207 ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS.
   The governing body may designate whether the administration of a policy or
the carrying out of any order shall be performed by a committee, an appointive
officer or the Mayor. If no administrative authority is designated, it shall be
vested in the Mayor.
§ 1-208 VACANCIES IN GOVERNING BODY; HOW FILLED.
   [Reserved]
§ 1-209 COMPENSATION.
   (a)   The Mayor shall be paid $100 for each regularly scheduled meeting
attended and $50 for each special meeting attended.
   (b)   Each Council member shall be paid $60 for each regularly scheduled
meeting attended and $40 for each special meeting attended.
   (c)   In the event of a vacancy of the position of City Administrator and
the Mayor is compelled to assume certain additional duties and responsibilities
resulting from such vacancy, the Mayor shall be paid an amount equal to $600
per month; provided, whoever, in the event a vacancy in the position of City
Administrator is for only a portion of a month, the monthly payment set forth
in this subsection (c) will be prorated for that portion of the month.
   (d)   There shall be no additional compensation of any kind for these
elected officials. Payment should be made monthly.
(Ord. 4236, passed 12-27-2017)
§ 1-210 EXPENSES.
   Each member of the governing body shall receive for his or her services and
as reimbursement for his or her expenses, compensation as follows:
   (a)   Mileage at the same rate as is established by law by the state for
state employees for each mile traveled by the shortest route upon the
performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Council; and/or
   (b)   Reimbursement for actual food and lodging expenses upon the
performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Council, provided such
expenses shall be documented by proper receipts.
§ 1-211 INCORPORATING CODE OF PROCEDURE FOR KANSAS CITIES.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing a
code of procedure for the conduct of City Council meetings, that certain code
known as the “Code of Procedure for Kansas Cities”, Edition of 2006, prepared
and published in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka,
Kansas, save and except such articles, sections, parts or portions as are
hereafter omitted, deleted, modified or changed. One copy of said Code of
Procedure for Kansas Cities shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
Incorporated by the Code of the City of Eureka, Kansas”, with all sections or
portions thereof intended to be omitted or changed clearly marked to show any
such omission or change and to which shall be attached a copy of this section,
and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the
public at all reasonable hours.
§ 1-212 CODE OF ETHICS.
   (a)   Declaration of policy. The proper operation of our government requires
that public officials and employees be independent, impartial and responsible
to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in the proper
channels; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its
government. In recognition of those goals, there is hereby established a Code
of Ethics for all officials and employees, whether elected or appointed, paid
or unpaid. The purpose of this Code is to establish ethical standards by
setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best
interests of the city.
   (b)   Responsibilities of public office. Public officials and employees are
agents of public purpose and hold office for the benefit of the public. They
are bound to uphold the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of this state and to carry out impartially the laws of the nation, state and
city and thus to foster respect for all government. They are bound to observe
in their official acts the highest standards of morality and to discharge
faithfully the duties of their office regardless of personal considerations,
recognizing that the long-term public interest must be their primary concern.
Their conduct in both their official and private affairs should be above
reproach.
   (c)   Dedicated service.
      (1)   All officials and employees of the city should be responsive to the
political objectives expressed by the electorate and the programs developed to
attain those objectives. Appointive officials and employees should adhere to
the rule of work and performance established as the standard for their
positions by the appropriate authority.
      (2)   Officials and employees should not exceed their authority or breach
the law or ask others to do so, and they should work in full cooperation with
other public officials and employees unless prohibited from so doing by law or
by officially recognized confidentiality of their work.
   (d)   Fair and equal treatment.
      (1)   Interest in appointments. Canvassing of members of the City
Council, directly or indirectly, in order to obtain preferential consideration
in connection with any appointment to the municipal service shall disqualify
the candidate for appointment, except with reference to positions filled by
appointment by the City Council.
      (2)   Use of public property. No official or employee shall request or
permit the use of city- owned vehicles, equipment, materials or property for
personal convenience or profit, except when such services are available to the
public generally or are provided as city policy for the use of such official or
employee in the conduct of official business.
      (3)   Obligations to citizens. No official or employee shall grant any
special consideration, treatment or advantage to any citizen beyond that which
is available to every other citizen.
   (e)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   Financial or personal interests. No elected or appointive city
official or employee, whether paid or unpaid, shall engage in any business or
transaction or shall have a financial or other personal interest, direct or
indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her duties
in the public interest or would tend to impair his or her independence of
judgment or action in the performance of his or her official duties. Personal,
as distinguished from financial interests, includes an interest arising from
blood or marriage relationships or close business or political association.
      (2)   Specific conflicts of interests. Specific conflicts of interest are
enumerated below for the guidance of officials and employees.
         (A)   Incompatible employment. No elected or appointive city official
or employee shall engage in or accept private employment or render services for
private interests when such employment or service is incompatible with the
proper discharge of his or her official duties or would tend to impair his or
her independence of judgment or action in the performance of his or her
official duties.
         (B)   Disclosure of confidential information. No elected or appointive
city official or employee shall, without proper legal authorization, disclose
confidential information concerning the property, government or affairs of the
city. Nor shall he or she use such information to advance the financial or
other private interest of himself, herself or others.
      (3)   Gifts and favors. No elected or appointive city official or
employee shall accept any valuable gift, whether in the form of service, loan,
thing or promise, from any person, firm or corporation which to his or her
knowledge is interested directly or indirectly in any manner whatsoever in
business dealings with the city; nor shall any such official or employee accept
any gift, favor or thing of value that may tend to influence him or her in the
discharge of his or her duties or grant in the discharge of his or her duties
any improper favor, service or thing of value. The prohibition against gifts or
favors shall not apply to an occasional non-pecuniary gift, of only nominal
value, an award publicly presented in
recognition of public service, or any gift which would have been offered or
given to him or her if not an official or employee.
      (4)   Representing private interest before city agencies or courts. No
elected or appointive city official or employee whose salary is paid in whole
or in part by the city shall appear in behalf of private interest before any
agency of this city. He or she shall not represent private interests in any
action or proceeding against the interest of the city in any litigation to
which the city is a party.
ARTICLE 3: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
1-301   Appointment
   
1-302   Employees
   
1-303   Removal
   
1-304   Vacancy in office
   
1-305   City Clerk
   
1-306   Same; fiscal records
   
1-307   Same; seal; oaths
   
1-308   Same; withholding agents
   
1-309   Assistant City Clerk
   
1-310   City Treasurer
   
1-311   City Attorney; office; duties
   
1-312   City Prosecutor; office; duties
   
1-313   City Engineer
   
1-314   Appointment or employment in more than one position
   
1-315   Conflict of interest
   
1-316   City Administrator
§ 1-301 APPOINTMENT.
   (a)   The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the consent of the Council the
following officers, to wit: a City Attorney; a City Clerk; Assistant City
Clerk; a City Treasurer; a Municipal Judge of the Municipal Court; a Fire
Chief; Assistant Fire Chief; City Engineer; and such other officers, assistants
and employees as deemed necessary for the best interests of the city.
   (b)   The terms of all appointive officers shall be for one year and until
their successors are appointed and qualified. In case of an appointment to fill
a vacancy, such appointee shall only serve for the remainder of the term for
which his or her predecessor was appointed.
(Charter Ord. 11, passed 9-10-1996; Ord. 3922, passed - -)
§ 1-302 EMPLOYEES.
   The City Council shall have authority to hire all other employees, or such
authority may be delegated to the respective department heads.
§ 1-303 REMOVAL.
   (a)   A majority of all members-elect of the Council may remove any
appointed officer.
   (b)   The Mayor may suspend at any time any appointed officer.
   (c)   Employees, other than appointed officers, may be removed by the Mayor
upon recommendation of the respective department heads.
§ 1-304 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs in any appointive office for whatever reason, the
vacancy shall be filled by the governing body. Any person appointed to fill
such vacancy shall serve only until the next regular time for appointment.
§ 1-305 CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Be custodian of all city records, books, files, papers, documents and
other personal effects belonging to the city and not properly pertaining to any
other office;
   (b)   Carry on all official correspondence of the city;
   (c)   Attend and keep a record of the proceedings of all regular and special
meetings of the governing body;
   (d)   Enter every appointment of office and the date thereof in the journal;
   (e)   Enter or place each ordinance of the city in the ordinance books after
its passage; and
   (f)   Publish all ordinances, except those appropriating money, and such
resolutions, notices and proclamations as may be required by law or ordinance.
§ 1-306 SAME; FISCAL RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Prepare and keep suitable fiscal records according to generally
accepted accounting principles;
   (b)   Assist in preparing the annual budget;
   (c)   Audit all claims against the city for goods or services rendered for
the consideration of the governing body. His or her accounts shall properly
show the amounts paid from any fund of the city and the cash balance existing
in each fund;
   (d)   Keep an accurate account of all bonds issued by the city; and
   (e)   Keep a record of all special assessments.
§ 1-307 SAME; SEAL; OATHS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Have custody of the corporate seal of the city and shall affix the
same to the official copy of all ordinances, contracts and other documents
required to be authenticated;
   (b)   Have power to administer oaths for all purposes pertaining to the
business and affairs of the city; and
   (c)   Keep suitable files of all such oaths required to be deposited in his
or her office.
§ 1-308 SAME; WITHHOLDING AGENTS.
   (a)   The City Clerk is designated as the withholding agent of the city for
the purposes of the Federal Revenue (Income) Act, and shall perform the duties
required of withholding agents by said Act or any other Act requiring
withholding from the compensation of any city officer or employee.
   (b)   The Clerk shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the
governing body or the state statutes.
§ 1-309 ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
   (a)   The office of Assistant City Clerk is hereby established. The Mayor
shall appoint, by and with the consent of the City Council, the Assistant City
Clerk. The person so appointed and confirmed shall hold the office for a term
of one year and until a successor is appointed and confirmed.
   (b)   The Assistant City Clerk shall perform those duties assigned to that
office by the City Clerk.
   (c)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the position of City Clerk and the city
is without a person appointed, confirmed or qualified to hold that office, the
Assistant City Clerk shall become the acting City Clerk and fulfill the duties
of that office.
   (d)   Compensation of the Assistant City Clerk shall be set by ordinance
passed by the governing body.
§ 1-310 CITY TREASURER.
   The City Treasurer shall:
   (a)   Keep a full and accurate record of all money received and paid out in
a ledger book provided by the governing body;
   (b)   Publish a quarterly financial statement;
   (c)   Deposit all public monies and sign all checks of the city;
   (d)   Pay out city funds only upon orders or warrants properly signed by the
Mayor and City Clerk; and
   (e)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing body
or the state statutes.
(K.S.A. 10-803, 12-1608)
§ 1-311 CITY ATTORNEY; OFFICE; DUTIES.
   (a)   (1)   There is hereby established the office of City Attorney.
      (2)   No person shall be eligible for the office of City Attorney who is
not an attorney at law admitted to practice in the Supreme Court of the state.
      (3)   The City Attorney shall be charged with the general direction and
supervision of the legal affairs of the city.
   (b)   The City Attorney shall:
      (1)   Attend meetings of the City Council when so directed to attend by
the Council;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor and City Council and all officers of the city upon
such legal questions affecting the city and its offices as may be submitted to
him or her;
      (3)   When requested by the City Council, give opinions in writing upon
any such questions;
      (4)   Draft such ordinances, contracts, leases, easements, conveyances
and other instruments in writing as may be submitted to him or her in the
regular transaction of affairs of the city;
      (5)   Approve all ordinances of the city as to form and legality;
      (6)   Attend Planning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals meetings
when so directed by the Boards;
      (7)   Appear and prosecute all violations of city ordinances in Municipal
Court when his or her services shall be required; and
      (8)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body and the state statutes.
§ 1-312 CITY PROSECUTOR; OFFICE; DUTIES.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Office of City Prosecutor. No person
shall be eligible for the Office of City Prosecutor who is not an attorney at
law admitted to practice law in the state. The City Prosecutor shall:
      (1)   Attend meetings of the governing body when so directed to attend by
the Mayor or City Attorney;
      (2)   Advise the City Council and all officers of the city upon legal
questions affecting the city and its officers as may be submitted to him or
her;
      (3)   Draft such ordinances and other instruments in writing as may be
submitted to him or her in the regular transactions of the affairs of the city;
      (4)   Appear and prosecute all violations of city ordinances in Municipal
Court; and
      (5)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body and the state statutes.
   (b)   (1)   The governing body may appoint a City Prosecutor in accordance
with § 1-301.
      (2)   In the event that there is no City Prosecutor, the City Attorney
shall serve in such capacity.
§ 1-313 CITY ENGINEER.
   (a)   The City Engineer shall be a licensed professional engineer in the
state.
   (b)   He or she shall be responsible for:
      (1)   The design and specifications for all city streets, sewers, water
lines, public buildings and other public facilities;
      (2)   The inspection of all public works projects including streets,
sewers, water lines and other public facilities; and
      (3)   The general supervision of the maintenance and repair of all public
facilities.
§ 1-314 APPOINTMENT OR EMPLOYMENT IN MORE THAN ONE POSITION.
   The same person may be appointed to more than one appointive office, or
employed in more than one department, except that the same person shall not be
appointed to incompatible offices. Salaries or wages of such persons shall be
prorated between the proper funds of the several offices or departments.
§ 1-315 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   All city officers and employees shall comply with the requirements of K.S.A.
75-4301a et seq., concerning governmental ethics and refrain from making or
participating in the making of a contract when prohibited by state law.
§ 1-316 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   Appointment; term. There is hereby created and established the office
of City Administrator. Such City Administrator shall be appointed by the
governing body, and he or she shall serve for a term of two years as provided
by this chapter.
   (b)   Power; duties and responsibilities. Except as otherwise provided by
law or the ordinance of the city, the City Administrator shall:
      (1)   Coordinate and direct all activities of all city departments,
subject however to provisions of state laws and ordinances of the city;
      (2)   Administer and implement all municipal ordinances;
      (3)   Assist in preparation of the annual budget;
      (4)   Assume responsibility for the capital improvement plan;
      (5)   Research and conduct studies of municipal government and
management;
      (6)   Address concerns and complaints from the general public;
      (7)   Complete evaluations of city staff;
      (8)   Serve as purchasing agent within pre-authorized limits;
      (9)   Meet with the City Council and boards appointed by that Council to
coordinate activities of the city;
      (10)   Maintain city compliance with state and federal regulations;
      (11)   Establish road maintenance programs;
      (12)   Evaluate the need for and implement appropriate employee training
programs;
      (13)   Make such recommendations to the governing body as requested
concerning the employment of appointive officers, city employees and
contractual personnel;
      (14)   Supervise the maintenance of all city-owned property or property
under the control and supervision of the city;
      (15)   Act as a liaison for the City Council concerning department
projects and goals;
      (16)   Coordinate work with officials from other governmental agencies;
      (17)   Coordinate and direct the city’s effort to promote economic
growth; and
      (18)   Undertake such other duties and responsibilities which are placed
or assigned to the City Administrator by majority vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 4000, passed - - )
ARTICLE 4: PERSONNEL POLICY AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Section
   1-401   Personnel policies and guidelines
§ 1-401 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND GUIDELINES.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing
employee personnel rules and regulations the document entitled “Uniform
Personnel Policies and Guidelines for the City of Eureka”. One copy of said
document shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as adopted by the Code of
the City of Eureka” and which there shall be attached a copy of this section.
Said official copy shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be open to
inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours. All departments
of the city shall be supplied with copies of such rules and regulations as may
be deemed necessary.
ARTICLE 5: OATHS AND BONDS
Section
   
1-501   Oath; affirmation
   
1-502   Oaths filed
   
1-503   Bonds required
   
1-504   Same; premiums
   
1-505   Condition of bonds
   
1-506   Approval of bonds
§ 1-501 OATH; AFFIRMATION.
   All officers and employees of the city, whether elected or appointed, either
under the laws of the state or ordinances of the city, shall before entering
upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe an oath or
affirmation as follows.
   (a)   Oath. “I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will
support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of __________ (here enter name of
office or position). So help me God.”
   (b)   Affirmation. “I do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of
Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of ___________ (enter name of office
or position). This I do under the pains and penalties of perjury.”
(K.S.A. 54-104, 54-106, 75-4308)
§ 1-502 OATHS FILED.
   All officers and employees required to take and subscribe or sign an oath or
affirmation shall be supplied the forms for the purpose at the expense of the
city, and upon taking and subscribing or signing any such oath or affirmation,
the same shall be filed by the City Clerk.
§ 1-503 BONDS REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   The following city officers shall each, before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, give a good and sufficient corporate surety bond
to the city.
      (2)   The bond shall be in the following amount, to wit:
         (A)   City Treasurer: $10,000;
         (B)   City Clerk: $10,000;
         (C)   Clerk of Municipal Court: $1,000; and
         (D)   Judge of Municipal Court: $1,000.
   (b)   The governing body may provide for the coverage by blanket bond of
such officers and employees and in such amounts as the governing body may, by
resolution, designate.
§ 1-504 SAME; PREMIUMS.
   All premiums on surety bonds shall be paid by the city.
(K.S.A. 78-111)
§ 1-505 CONDITION OF BONDS.
   Each of the bonds required in § 1-503 shall be conditioned for the faithful
performance of duty and all acts required by the laws of the state and of the
city, and for the application and payment over to the proper persons of all
monies or property coming into the hands of each such officer by virtue of his
or her office.
§ 1-506 APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   All bonds given to the city shall be approved as to their form by the City
Attorney and as to surety and sufficiency by the governing body, unless
otherwise provided by the laws of the state.
ARTICLE 6: OPEN RECORDS
Section
   
1-601   Policy
   
1-602   Record custodians
   
1-603   Local Freedom of Information Officers
   
1-604   Public request for access
   
1-605   Facilities for public inspection
   
1-606   Procedures for inspection
   
1-607   Appointment of official custodians
   
1-608   Appointment of Local Freedom of Information Officer
   
1-609   Designation of additional record custodians
   
1-610   Requests to be directed to custodians
   
1-611   Fee administration
   
1-612   Inspection fee
   
1-613   Copying fee
   
1-614   Prepayment of fees
   
1-615   Payment
§ 1-601 POLICY.
   (a)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that all public
records which are made, maintained or kept by or are in the possession of the
city, its officers and employees, shall be open for public inspection as
provided by, and subject to the restrictions imposed by, the State Open Records
Act.
   (b)   Any person, upon request, shall have access to such open public
records for the purpose of inspecting, abstracting or copying such records
while they are in the possession, custody and control of the appointed or
designated record custodian thereof, or his or her designated representative.
§ 1-602 RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All city officers and employees appointed or designated as record
custodians under this article shall: protect public records from damage and
disorganization; prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the
city; provide assistance and information upon request; ensure efficient and
timely action and response to all applications for inspection of public
records; and shall carry out the procedures adopted by this city for inspecting
and copying open public records.
   (b)   The official custodian shall prominently display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public a brochure in the form prescribed by the
Local Freedom of Information Officer that contains basic information about the
rights of a requester, the responsibilities of a public agency and the
procedures for inspecting or obtaining a copy of public records under the State
Open Records Act. The official custodian shall display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public the brochure at one or more places in
the administrative offices of the city where it is available to members of the
public who request public information in person.
§ 1-603 LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICERS.
   The Local Freedom of Information Officer shall:
   (a)   Prepare and provide educational materials and information concerning
the State Open Records Act;
   (b)   Be available to assist the city and members of the general public to
resolve disputes relating the State Open Records Act;
   (c)   Respond to inquiries relating to the State Open Records Act; and
   (d)   Establish the requirements for the content, size, shape and other
physical characteristics of a brochure required to be displayed or distributed
or otherwise made available to the public under the State Open Records Act. In
establishing such requirements for the content of the brochure, the Local
Freedom of Information Officer shall include plainly written basic information
about the rights of a requester, the responsibilities of the city and the
procedures for inspecting and obtaining a copy of public records under the Act.
§ 1-604 PUBLIC REQUEST FOR ACCESS.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall establish
office hours during which any person may make a request for access to an open
public record. Such hours shall be no fewer than the hours each business day
the office is regularly open to the public. For any city office not open Monday
through Friday, hours shall be established by the record custodian for each
such day at which time any person may request access to an open public record.
§ 1-605 FACILITIES FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall provide
suitable facilities to be used by any person desiring to inspect and/or copy an
open public record. The office of the City Clerk, being the principal record-
keeper of the city, shall be used as the principal office for providing access
to and providing copies of open records to the maximum extent practicable.
Requesters of records shall be referred to the office of the City Clerk except
when the requested records are not in that office and are available in another
city office.
§ 1-606 PROCEDURES FOR INSPECTION.
   Any person requesting access to an open public record for purposes of
inspecting or copying such record, or obtaining a copy thereof, shall abide by
the procedures adopted by the governing body for record inspection and copying,
including those procedures established by record custodians as authorized by
the governing body. Such procedures shall be posted in each city office keeping
and maintaining open public records.
§ 1-607 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIAL CUSTODIANS.
   The following city officers are hereby appointed as official custodians for
purposes of the State Open Records Act and are hereby charged with
responsibility for compliance with that Act with respect to the hereinafter
listed public records:
   (a)   City Clerk. All public records kept and maintained in the City Clerk’s
office and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in this section;
   (b)   City Treasurer. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Treasurer’s office;
   (c)   Chief of Police. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Police Department;
   (d)   Fire Chief. All public records not on file in the office of the City
Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Fire Department;
   (e)   City Attorney. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Attorney’s office; and
   (f)   Clerk of the Municipal Court. All public records not on file in the
office of the City Clerk and kept and maintained in the Municipal Court.
§ 1-608 APPOINTMENT OF LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICER.
   The City Clerk is hereby appointed as the Local Freedom of Information
Officer and charged with all of the duties as set forth in § 1-603.
§ 1-609 DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   Each of the official custodians appointed in § 1-607 is hereby
authorized to designate any subordinate officers or employees to serve as
record custodian. Such record custodians shall have such duties and powers as
are set out in the State Open Records Act.
   (b)   Whenever an official custodian shall appoint another person as a
record custodian he or she shall notify the City Clerk of such designation and
the City Clerk shall maintain a register of all such designations.
§ 1-610 REQUESTS TO BE DIRECTED TO CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a
public record in accordance with the provisions of the State Open Records Act,
shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility for
the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
   (b)   Whenever any city officer or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this article is presented with a request for access to, or copy
of, a public record which record the custodian does not have in his or her
possession and for which he or she has not been given responsibility to keep
and maintain, the custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record.
Further, the person making the request shall be informed as to which custodian
the request should be addressed to, if such is known by the custodian receiving
the request.
§ 1-611 FEE ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to provide the Clerk’s office, and the
office of each record custodian, with sufficient cash to enable the making of
change for record fee purposes. Each custodian shall transmit all record fee
monies collected to the City Treasurer not less than monthly. Each custodian
shall maintain duplicates of all records and copy request forms, completed as
to the amount of fee charged and collected, which amounts shall be periodically
audited by the Clerk-Finance Officer and Treasurer of the city.
§ 1-612 INSPECTION FEE.
   (a)   Where a request has been made for inspection of any open public record
which is readily available to the record custodian, there shall be no
inspection fee charged to the requester.
   (b)   In all cases not covered by subsection (a) above, a record inspection
fee shall be charged, at the rate of the lowest-cost category of staff
reasonably necessary (determined by the city) to provide access to or furnish
copies of public records. Charges for staff time shall be based on the
employee’s salary or hourly wage.
(Ord. 4325, passed 9-11-2023; Ord. 4341, passed 8-25-2025)
§ 1-613 COPYING FEE.
   (a)   A fee of $0.10 per page shall be charged for photocopying public
records, such fee to cover the cost of labor, materials and equipment.
   (b)   For copying any public records which cannot be reproduced by the
city’s photocopying equipment, the requester shall be charged the actual cost
to the city, including staff time, in reproducing such records.
(Ord. 4325, passed 9-11-2023; Ord. 4341, passed 8-25-2025)
§ 1-614 PREPAYMENT OF FEES.
   (a)   A record custodian may demand prepayment of the fees established by
this article whenever he or she believes this to be in the best interest of the
city. The prepayment amount shall be an estimate of the inspection and/or
copying charges accrued in fulfilling the record request. Any overage or
underage in the prepayment shall be settled prior to inspection of the
requested record or delivery of the requested copies.
   (b)   Prepayment of inspection and/or copying fees shall be required
whenever, in the best estimate of the record custodian, such fees are estimated
to exceed $50.
   (c)   Where prepayment has been demanded by the record custodian, no record
shall be made available to the requester until such prepayment has been made.
§ 1-615 PAYMENT.
   All fees charged under this article shall be paid to the custodian of the
records inspected and/or copied unless the requester has established an
account, for purposes of billing and payment, with the city.
ARTICLE 7: INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
Section
   
1-701   Purpose and goals
   
1-702   Active funds; designation of depositories; eligible depositories
   
1-703   Definitions
   
1-704   Investment of idle funds
   
1-705   Procedures and restrictions
   
1-706   Custody and safekeeping
   
1-707   Sale or transfer
   
1-708   Interest on time deposits
§ 1-701 PURPOSE AND GOALS.
   (a)   It is the purpose of this statement to set forth the public policies
of the city relating to the investment of public monies, and establish
procedural requirements as to investment management practice.
   (b)   The objective of the investment policy and program of the city shall
be as follows.
      (1)   The safeguarding of all public monies shall be of the highest
priority. Public money shall not be invested or managed in any matter which
would jeopardize the safety of the principal.
      (2)   Consistent with the requirement of safety, the objective of the
investment program shall be to aggressively manage and invest all public monies
to maximize net earnings, consistent with the public responsibility to secure
maximum, safe investment return possible from monies assigned to its
stewardship, to relieve demands on the property tax, and to otherwise reduce
the cost of public services.
§ 1-702 ACTIVE FUNDS; DESIGNATION OF DEPOSITORIES; ELIGIBLE DEPOSITORIES.
   (a)   The governing body shall designate the banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks which shall serve as depositories of its funds.
The Clerk, Treasurer or other city officer or employee having the custody of
city funds shall deposit such funds only at the designated banks, savings and
loan associations and savings banks. Only banks, savings and loan associations
and savings banks that have
main or branch offices in the county shall be designated as official
depositories. No such bank, savings bank or savings and loan association shall
be designated as a depository until the city is assured that it can obtain
satisfactory security for its deposits.
   (b)   The Clerk, Treasurer or other city officer or employee depositing
public funds shall deposit all such public funds coming into such person’s
possession in his, her or their name and official title as such officer. If the
governing body fails to designate an official depository or depositories, the
officer thereof having custody of city funds shall deposit such funds with one
or more banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks which have main
or branch offices in the county if satisfactory security can be obtained
therefor and if not then elsewhere. In such event, the officer or employee
shall serve notice in writing on the governing body showing the names and
locations of such banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks where
such funds are deposited, and upon so doing, the officer or employee having
custody of such funds shall not be liable for the loss of any portion thereof
except for official misconduct or for the misappropriation of such funds by the
officer or employee.
   (c)   If eligible banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks
under subsections (a) or (b) above cannot or will not provide an acceptable
bid, which shall include services for the depositing of public funds under this
section, then banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks that have
main or branch offices in any immediately adjoining county may receive deposits
of the city’s active funds, if such banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks have been designated as official depositories under subsection
(a) above and the city can obtain satisfactory security therefor.
§ 1-703 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANK. Any bank incorporated under the laws of the state or any other state,
or organized under the laws of the United States and which has a main or branch
office in the state.
   BRANCH. Any office within this state, other than the main office, that is
approved by a federal or state supervisory agency at which deposits are
received, checks paid or money lent. BRANCH does not include an automated
teller machine, remote service unit or similar device or a loan production
office.
   INVESTMENT RATE. A rate which is the equivalent yield for United States
government securities having a maturity date as published in the Wall Street
Journal, nearest the maturity date for equivalent maturities. The zero- to 90-
day rate shall be computed on the average effective federal funds rate as
published by the Federal Reserve System for the previous week.
   MAIN OFFICE. The place of business specified in the articles of association,
certificate of authority or similar document, where the business of the
institution is carried on and which is not a branch.
   SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION. Any savings and loan association incorporated
under the laws of the state or any other state, or organized under the laws of
the United States and which has a main or branch office in the state.
   SAVINGS BANK. Any savings bank organized under the laws of the United States
and which has a main or branch office in the state.
(K.S.A. 12-1675a)
§ 1-704 INVESTMENT OF IDLE FUNDS.
   Temporarily idle monies of the city, not currently needed, may in accordance
with the procedure hereinafter described be invested:
   (a)   In temporary notes or no-fund warrants issued by the city;
   (b)   In savings deposits, demand deposits, time deposit, open accounts,
certificates of deposit or time certificates of deposit with maturities of not
more than two years:
      (1)   In banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks which
have main or branch offices located in the city; or
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank is located in the city, then in banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks, which have main or branch offices in the county
or counties in which all or part of the city is located.
   (c)   In repurchase agreements with:
      (1)   Banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks, which have
main or branch offices located in the city, for direct obligations of, or
obligations that are insured as to principal and interest by, the United States
government or any agency thereof;
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank, is located in the city: if no such bank, savings and loan
association or savings bank having a main or branch office located in the city
is willing to enter into such an agreement with the city at an interest rate
equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g),
and amendments thereto, then such repurchase agreements may be entered into
with banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks which have main or
branch offices in the county or counties in which all or part of the city is
located; or
      (3)   If no bank, savings and loan association or savings bank having a
main or branch office in such county or counties is willing to enter into such
an agreement with the city at an interest rate equal to or greater than the
investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, then
such repurchase agreements may be entered into with banks, savings and loan
associations or savings banks located within the state.
   (d)   In direct obligations of or obligations that are insured as to
principal and interest by the United States or any agency thereof, not
including mortgage-backed securities with maturities as the governing body
shall determine, but not exceeding two years. Such investment transactions
shall only be conducted with banks, savings and loan associations and savings
banks; the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Missouri; or with primary
government securities dealers which report to the market report subsection of
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or any broker-dealer engaged in the
business of selling government securities which is registered in compliance
with the requirements of §§ 15 or 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
and registered pursuant to K.S.A. 17-12a401, and amendments thereto;
   (e)   In the Municipal Investment Pool Fund established in K.S.A. 12-1677a,
and amendments thereto;
   (f)   In the investments authorized and in accordance with the conditions
prescribed in K.S.A. 12-1677b, and amendments thereto;
   (g)   In multiple municipal client investment pools managed by the trust
departments of banks which have main or branch offices located in county or
counties where city is located or with trust companies incorporated under the
laws of this state which have contracted to provide trust services under the
provisions of K.S.A. 9-2107, and amendments thereto, with banks which have main
or branch offices located in the county in which the city is located. Public
monies invested under this subsection (g) shall be secured in the same manner
as provided for under K.S.A. 9-1402, and amendments thereto. Pooled investments
of public monies made by trust departments under this subsection (g) shall be
subject to the same terms, conditions and limitations as are applicable to the
municipal investment pool established by K.S.A. 12-1677a, and amendments
thereto;
   (h)   The investments authorized in subsections (d), (e), (f) or (g) above
shall be utilized only if the banks, savings and loan associations and savings
banks eligible for investments authorized in subsection (b) above, cannot or
will not make the investments authorized in subsection (b) above available to
the city at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as
defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto; or
   (i)   In selecting a depository pursuant to subsection (b) above, if a bank,
savings and loan association or savings bank eligible for an investment deposit
thereunder has an office located in the city and such financial institution
will make such deposits available to the city at interest rates equal to or
greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and
amendments thereto, and such financial institution otherwise qualifies for such
deposit, the governing body shall select one or more of such eligible financial
institutions for deposit of funds pursuant to this section. If no such
financial institution qualifies for such deposits, the city shall select for
such deposits one or more eligible banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks which have offices in the county or counties in which all
or a part of the city is located which will make such deposits available to the
city at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined
in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, and which otherwise qualify for
such deposits.
(K.S.A. 12-1675)
§ 1-705 PROCEDURES AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Clerk shall periodically report to the governing body as to the
amount of money available for investment and the period of time such amounts
will be available for investment, and shall submit such recommendations as
deemed necessary for the efficient and safe management of city finances. The
recommendations of the City Clerk shall provide for an investment program which
shall so limit the amounts invested and shall schedule the maturities of
investments so that the city will, at all times, have sufficient monies
available on demand deposit to assure prompt payment of all city obligations.
§ 1-706 CUSTODY AND SAFEKEEPING.
   Securities purchased pursuant to this article shall be under the care of the
City Clerk, City Treasurer and Mayor and shall be held in the custody of a
state or national bank or trust company, or shall be kept by such officers in a
safety deposit box of the city in a bank or trust company. Securities in the
original or receipt form held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall
be held in the name of the city, and their redemption, transfer or withdrawal
shall be permitted only upon the written instruction of the city officers.
Securities not held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall be
personally deposited by such officer in a safety deposit box in the name of the
city in a bank or trust company, access to which shall be permitted only in the
personal presence and under the signature of two of the abovementioned
officers.
§ 1-707 SALE OR TRANSFER.
   If, in order to maintain sufficient monies on demand deposit in any fund as
provided in § 1-705, it becomes necessary to transfer or sell any securities of
such funds, the officers specified in § 1-706 may transfer said securities to
any other fund or funds in which there are temporarily idle monies, or shall
sell such securities, and for such purpose they shall have authority to make
any necessary written direction, endorsement or assignment for and on behalf of
the city.
§ 1-708 INTEREST ON TIME DEPOSITS.
   The City Clerk shall deposit the interest earned on invested idle funds to
the General Fund, unless otherwise required or authorized by law.
CHAPTER II: ANIMAL CONTROL AND REGULATION
Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   DOGS
      
3.   OTHER ANIMALS
      
4.   PIT BULL DOGS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
2-101   Definitions
   
2-102   Keeping other animals; swine and fowl
   
2-103   Same; nuisance
   
2-104   Running at large
   
2-105   Herding; grazing
   
2-106   Impoundment
   
2-107   Breaking pound
   
2-108   Cruelty to animals
   
2-109   Kennel licenses
§ 2-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Includes the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person
responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for its
proper care.
   ANIMALS. All vertebrate and invertebrate animals such as but not limited to
bovine cattle, horses and other equines, hogs, goats, dogs, cats, rabbits,
sheep, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons and other fowl or wild animals,
reptiles, fish, bees or birds that have been tamed, domesticated or captivated.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The facility or facilities operated by the city or its
authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals under the
authority of this chapter or state law.
   AT-LARGE. To be outside of a fence or other enclosure which restrains the
animals to a particular premise or not under the control, by leash or lead, of
the owner or other authorized person capable of restraining the animal. Animals
tethered to a stationary object within range of public thoroughfares are deemed
to be AT-LARGE.
   BITE. Any actual or suspected abrasion, scratch, puncture, tear, bruise or
piercing of the skin, caused by any animal, which is actually or suspected of
being contaminated or inoculated with the saliva from the animal, directly or
indirectly, regardless of the health of the animal causing such bite.
   CAT. Any member of the species felis catus, regardless of sex.
   DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal deemed to be dangerous or vicious
per §
2-213 .
   DOG. Any member of the species canis familiaris, regardless of sex.
   FOWL. All animals that are included in the zoological class Aves, which
shall include, but not limited to, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guineas and
pigeons.
   HARBOR. Any person who shall allow any animals to habitually remain or lodge
or to be fed within his or her home, store, yard, enclosure or place of
business or any other premises where he or she resides or controls.
   HUMANE LIVE ANIMAL TRAP. Any cagetrap that upon activation encloses an
animal without placing any physical restraint upon any part of the body of such
animal.
   HUMANELY EUTHANIZE. The proper injection of a substance that quickly and
painlessly terminates the life of an animal, or any other method approved by
the American Veterinary Medical Association or the American Humane Society.
   IMMEDIATE CONTROL. The regulation and supervision by a competent person so
that an animal is unable to run or get loose at will.
   KENNEL. Any establishment, commercial or otherwise, maintained for breeding,
rearing, grooming, boarding or otherwise harboring in an enclosure in one
location only, more than three dogs.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to cattle, horses, goats, sheep or
other animals commonly regarded or used as farm or ranch animals.
   NEUTERED. Any male or female cat or dog that has been permanently rendered
sterile.
   OWN. Includes own, keep, harbor, shelter, manage, possess or have a part
interest in any animal. If a minor owns any such animal subject to the
provisions of this chapter, the head of the household of which such minor is a
member shall be deemed to OWN such animal for the purposes of this chapter.
   OWNER. The one who owns, or his or her employee, agent or other competent
person into whose charge an animal has been placed by the actual owner as
described above.
   VACCINATION. An injection of a vaccine, approved by the state’s Board of
Public Health and administered by a licensed veterinarian for the purpose of
immunizing an animal against rabies.
   VETERINARIAN. A doctor of veterinary medicine licensed by the state.
§ 2-102 KEEPING OTHER ANIMALS; SWINE AND FOWL.
   (a)   Unless a permit shall have been obtained for harboring of any of the
following animals pursuant to subsection (d) below or harboring of any of the
following animals is expressly excepted from the permitting or licensing
process pursuant to the city code or this section, it shall be unlawful for any
person to keep or maintain any of the following within the corporate city
limits: cattle (which shall include cows, bulls, calves and steers); horses;
equines; mules; asses; donkeys; burros; sheep; goats; kids; llamas; or alpacas.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any fowl
(i.e., chickens, ducks, geese, guineas, turkeys, etc.) within the city limits.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any swine,
hogs or pigs within the city.
   (d)   Any owner seeking a permit to harbor those types of animals described
in subsection (a) shall make application for a permit to the City Clerk. The
application shall set forth the name and address of the applicant, the name and
address of all owners of property where the animals are to be harbored, the
type and number of animals to be harbored, the address where the animals are to
be harbored and shall be accompanied by a fee of $50 per animal with a maximum
fee of $400. The permit, if issued, shall be effective only for the calendar
year in which it is issued and shall expire on December 31 of the calendar year
in which the permit is issued.
   (e)   A permit shall not be issued until such time as a city official or
employee shall have viewed the property referenced in the application and it is
determined that the following requirements have been met.
      (1)   An enclosure in which the animals are to be harbored exists and
said enclosure contains, at a minimum, 20,000 square feet per animal, and shall
be of sufficient construction strength and quality to restrain the type of
animals sought to be harbored.
      (2)   The enclosure meets the other requirements of the city code
including those applicable to fences.
      (3)   Every such building or structure, if located within 100 feet of any
apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building
used for educational, religious or hospital purposes or residence other than
that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal
is kept, shall maintain a water-tight and fly-tight receptacle for manure and/
or other animal wastes and refuse, of such size as to hold all such
accumulations. Such receptacle is to be emptied sufficiently often and in such
a manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance and shall be kept
covered at all times, except when open during the deposit or removal of manure.
      (4)   No building, place or establishment wherein animals are kept shall
be maintained closer than 40 feet to any apartment house, hotel, restaurant,
boarding house, retail food store, building used for education, religious or
hospital purposes, of residence, other than that occupied by the owner or
occupant of the premises upon which such animal(s) is kept.
      (5)   All food for animals for which a permit to harbor has been issued
shall be stored in a sealed container to be located no closer than 40 feet from
any residence and, except when such container is opened for feeding and/or
filling purposes, said container must remain sealed.
   (f)   This section shall not be applicable to:
      (1)   Cattle harbored at the livestock auction market;
      (2)   Animals housed or penned at any licensed veterinarian facility or
clinic;
      (3)   Horses harbored at the Eureka Downs racing facility; or
      (4)   Animals harbored temporarily in connection with the annual
Greenwood County Fair.
   (g)   Any animal which is being raised and harbored in connection with a 4-
H activity, FFA activity, or any school related activity shall be exempt from
permit requirements if the owner of said animal:
      (1)   Advises the City Administrator’s office, in writing, the type of
animal(s) which is being harbored and so long as the time period for harboring
said animal(s) does not exceed six months of time per calendar year; and
      (2)   Provides an enclosure for said animal being harbored that meets the
requirements set forth in subsection (a) above and has been approved by a city
official or employee.
   (h)   Reptiles in excess of three feet in length may not be harbored within
the corporate city limits; provided, however, snakes in excess of three feet in
length may be harbored within the corporate city limits if they are kept, at
all times, within the snake’s owner’s residence.
   (i)   (1)   A person may own, keep or harbor permitted chickens within the
city, subject to the following restrictions.
         (A)   The number of fowl allowed to be owned or kept on an individual
lot is one animal per 500 square feet of lot size, rounded down, but in no
event will total number of fowl on any lot exceed ten.
         (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep roosters within the city.
      (2)   (A)   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter that
specify standards applicable to the keeping of animals, any person who owns
chickens shall provide a coop or other similar shelter and adequate laying
boxes and roost for the chickens. Such shelter shall be screened or walled in a
manner that allows the chickens to be reasonably protected from predators.
         (B)   The coop shall be a minimum of two square feet in size per
chicken if the birds have fenced outdoor run, or ten square feet per chicken if
the birds do not have a fenced outdoor run.
         (C)   For each chicken, one roost, with a minimum size of eight square
inches, shall be required. For every three chickens, a minimum of one laying
box space with a minimum size of one square foot, shall be required. Each
laying box shall contain adequate clean bedding material such as hay or other
soft material.
         (D)   Coops shall be constructed in a manner that is consistent with
the requirements of the city’s Zoning Ord. 3908. In the event that a coop
qualifies as an accessory structure under that code, all requirements regarding
placement and setbacks must be met. In no event will any chicken coop be
located closer than six feet from any neighboring property line.
         (E)   In the event that a mobile coop is utilized, the coop shall be
kept in compliance with all city ordinances that apply to the outdoor storage
of property.
         (F)   The coop or shelter shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
fashion to prevent the unreasonable accumulation of waste or other noxious
substances, the emanation of noxious odors or the presence of vermin.
         (G)   Any owner seeking a permit to harbor chickens shall make
application for a permit to the City Clerk. The application shall set forth the
name and address of the applicant, the name and address of all owners of the
property where the chickens are to be harbored, the number of chickens to be
harbored, the address where the chickens are to be harbored and shall be
accompanied by a fee of $5. The permit, if issued, shall be effective only for
the calendar year in which it is issued and shall expire on December 31 of the
calendar year in which the permit is issued. A permit shall not be issued until
such time as a city official or employee shall have viewed the property
referenced in the application and it is determined that requirements have been
met.
   (j)   Any person convicted of violating the terms of this section shall, in
addition to court costs, for the first offense, pay a fine of $100 per animal;
for a second offense, a fine of $250 per animal; and for a third and subsequent
offense, a fine of not more than $500 per animal.
(Ord. 4038, passed - -; Ord. 4064, passed - -; Ord. 4082, passed 1-8-2007; Ord.
4202, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 2-103 SAME; NUISANCE.
   Any person who maintains any animal or fowl in any building, pen or
enclosure on his or her premises which is not kept clean, sanitary and free
from filth, debris, garbage and offensive odors at all times, or which is or
becomes offensive to those residing in the vicinity shall be deemed to maintain
a nuisance. Such a nuisance shall be abated pursuant to the procedure set out
in
Ch. VIII of this code.
(Ord. 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-104 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully allow any animal or fowl
under his or her control to be or to run at large within the city. Any animal
or fowl found at large shall be impounded as provided in §
2-106 .
(Ord. 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-105 HERDING; GRAZING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to herd or graze any animal along the
streets and alleys, or upon the public grounds of the city, even when such
animal is picketed upon private grounds. Any animal found in violation of this
section shall be considered at large and shall be impounded, as provided in §
2-106 .
(Ord. 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-106 IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Animal Control Officer or Chief of Police shall impound any animal or
fowl found at large in the city in a suitable pound or enclosure provided or
contracted for by the city. The impounding officer shall make diligent inquiry
as to the owner of the animal and shall return the animal to such owner when
his or her identify is ascertained. The city shall be entitled to receive from
any such owner $25, plus the actual cost of feeding and maintaining the animal
while impounded. In case the identity of the owner of the impounded animal or
fowl cannot be ascertained, the animal shall be considered a stray. The Chief
of Police shall report the impounding of such stray to the County Sheriff and
the animal shall be disposed of as provided by law.
(K.S.A. 47-230) (Ord. 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-107 BREAKING POUND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break open, or assist, counsel or
advise the breaking open of, the city pound, or to take or let out any animal
placed therein by the impounding officer. This section shall not apply to any
officer duly authorized to handle animals impounded.
(Ord. 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-108 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (a)   Willfully or maliciously kill, maim, disfigure, torture, beat with a
stick, chain, club or other object, mutilate, burn or scald with any substance,
or otherwise cruelly set upon any animals, except that reasonable force may be
employed to drive off vicious animals or cruelly work any maimed, mutilated,
infirm, sick or disabled animal, or cause, allow or permit the same to be done;
   (b)   Have, keep or harbor any animals which is infected with any dangerous
or incurable and/or painfully crippling condition, except as hereinafter
provided. The Municipal Court Judge may order a person convicted of violation
under this subsection (b) to turn the animal, involved over to a designated
humane society. All such animals taken by the designated agency may be
destroyed humanely as soon thereafter as is conveniently possible. This section
shall not be construed to include veterinary hospitals or animals under active
veterinary care;
   (c)   Sell or offer for sale, barter, give away or use as an advertising
device or promotional display, living baby chicks, rabbits, ducklings or other
fowl, except pigeons, under two months of age in any quantity less than 12; or
to sell, offer for sale, barter, give away or display animals or fowls as
specified in this section which have been dyed, colored or otherwise treated so
as to impart to them an artificial or unnatural color; provided, however, that
this section shall not be construed to prohibit the sale of animals or fowls as
specified in this subsection (c), in proper facilities, by hatcheries or
persons engaged in raising and selling such animals and fowls for recognized
animal husbandry purposes;
   (d)   Promote, stage, hold, manage or in any way conduct any game,
exhibition, contest or fight in which one or more animals are engaged for the
purpose of injuring, killing, maiming or destroying themselves or any other
animal; and
   (e)   Neglect or refuse to supply such animal with necessary and adequate
care, food, drink, air, light, space, shelter or protection from the elements
as necessary for health and well-being of such kind of animal.
(Ord. 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-109 KENNEL LICENSES.
   (a)   No person or household shall own or harbor more than three dogs of six
months of age or older or more than one litter of pups, or more than three cats
of more than six months of age or more than one litter of kittens, or more than
a total of four dogs and cats more than six months of age in any combination,
or engage in the commercial business of breeding, buying, selling, trading,
training or boarding cats or dogs or both cats and dogs, without having
obtained a kennel license from the City Clerk.
   (b)   Kennel licenses must be renewed annually. No kennel license shall be
issued until an inspection certificate has been issued by the Animal Control
Officer certifying approval of the kennel and compliance with the applicable
laws of the city and the state, and a certificate by the Zoning Code
Enforcement Officer has been issued certifying that the applicant for the
kennel license is not violating zoning laws of the city. If the City Clerk has
not received any protest against the kennel, the City Clerk may issue a renewal
of an existing kennel license at the same location without any report from the
Animal Control Officer and Zoning Code Enforcement Officer, if the Animal
Control Officer or the Zoning Code Enforcement Officer finds that the holder of
any kennel license is violating any zoning law, or any other law of the state,
or of the city, or is maintaining the facility in a manner detrimental to the
health, safety or peace of mind of any person residing in the immediate
vicinity, he or she shall report such fact to the City Clerk, and the license
shall not be renewed, except after a public hearing before the governing body.
   (c)   The Animal Control Officer, the Zoning Enforcement Officer or any law
enforcement officer shall have the right to inspect any premises licensed under
this section at any reasonable time and nothing shall prevent the entry onto
private property for the purpose of inspection. The application for a kennel
shall constitute consent to such entry and inspection.
   (d)   The governing body may suspend or revoke a kennel license if, pursuant
to a public hearing, it finds any of the following.
      (1)   The kennel is maintained in violation of any applicable law of the
state or of the city.
      (2)   The kennel is maintained so as to be a public nuisance.
      (3)   The kennel is maintained so as to be detrimental to the health,
safety or peace of mind of persons residing in the immediate vicinity.
   (e)   The annual kennel license fee shall be $200. Payment of such license
fee is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the dog license fees otherwise
required under this article.
   (f)   This section shall not apply to and will not be construed to require a
kennel license for a licensed veterinarian to operate an animal hospital.
(Ord. 4048, passed - -)
ARTICLE 2: DOGS AND CATS
Section
2-201Definitions
2-202Running at large
2-203License required; tax; tag
2-204Rabies vaccination
2-205Visiting animals
2-206Public nuisance
2-207Tranquilizer gun; killing authorized
2-208Right of entry
2-209Impoundment
2-210Breaking or entering
2-211Trespass
2-212Destructive and noisy animals
2-213Vicious animals
2-214Dog bites; quarantine
2-215Same; proclamation
2-216Seeing eye dogs
2-217Abandoning animals unlawful
2-218Adoption of animals
2-219Disposition of unclaimed dogs
2-220Animal restraint
2-221Animal confinement
§ 2-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner or keeper or not under the control
or supervision of the owner or keeper.
   HARBORER. Any person who allows or permits any dog or cat to habitually
remain or to be lodged or fed within or upon the premises of such person.
   OWN. Includes own, keep, harbor, shelter, manage, possess or have a part
interest in any dog or cat. if a minor owns a dog or cat subject to the
provisions of this article, the head of the household of which such minor is a
member shall be deemed to own the dog or cat for the purposes of this article.
   OWNER. The one who owns, his or her employee, agent or other competent
person into whose charge the actual owner has placed the dog or cat.
(Ord. 3258, passed - -; Ord. 4152, passed - -)
§ 2-202 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (a)   Any person keeping, harboring, owning or in any way possessing within
the corporate limits of the city any dog must control the dog by one of the
following means:
      (1)   In a securely enclosed pen or fenced area sufficient to contain the
animal;
      (2)   On a chain sufficient to contain the animal; or
      (3)   On a suitable leash and under restraint and the control of a person
capable of restraining the animal.
   (b)   Any dog or cat running at large within the city shall be impounded as
set out in §
2-209 .
   (c)   Upon a first conviction, the offender shall be fined no less than $50,
plus the board bill. Upon an offender’s second or subsequent violation of this
section within three years, regardless of the animal at large, the offender
shall be fined not less than $75, plus the board bill.
(Ord. 3258, passed - -; Ord. 3872, passed - -; Ord. 4241, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 2-203 LICENSE REQUIRED; TAX; TAG.
   (a)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or dogs, cat or cats
regardless of age, within the city until he or she shall have first paid the
annual city taxes hereafter provided and procure from the City Clerk a dog tag
or cat tag for the current year for each dog or cat. The annual tax shall be
paid on or before January 1 of each year in the following amounts:
      (1)   Unneutered male dog: $6;
      (2)   Neutered male dog: $4;
      (3)   Unneutered male cat: $6;
      (4)   Neutered male cat: $4;
      (5)   Unspayed female dog: $6;
      (6)   Spayed female dog: $4;
      (7)   Unspayed female cat: $6; and
      (8)   Spayed female cat: $4.
   (b)   In addition to the aforesaid tax, there is hereby imposed a penalty of
$2 for each month or any part thereof that the tax shall be unpaid on or after
March 1, which penalty shall be due and paid at the time of the payment of the
taxes. In the event that the tag procured from the City Clerk shall be lost, a
replacement tag shall be issued by the City Clerk for a fee of $1.50. The
penalty provisions herein prescribed shall not apply to replacement tags. All
persons paying the tax to the City Clerk shall receive a receipt from the City
Clerk for the tax for the current year for each such dog or cat. The tag shall
be permanently attached to the collar or harness of each dog or cat in a manner
that the tag may be readily seen by the officers of the city, and the owner or
harborer shall cause the tag to be worn at all times by any dog or cat upon
which a tax has been paid.
(Ord. 3910, passed - -; Ord. 4120, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 2-204 RABIES VACCINATION.
   Any dog or cat more than four months of age shall be vaccinated against
rabies and shall have attached to its collar or harness a tag showing the last
vaccination received by the dog or cat. The City Clerk shall not receipt or
give receipt for annual city taxes due for any dog or cat that does not have
current rabies vaccination.
(Ord. 3258, passed - -; Ord. 4141, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 2-205 VISITING ANIMALS.
   The provisions of this article with respect to licensing shall not apply to
any dog or cat owned by any person visiting or temporarily remaining within the
city for less than 30 days. However, such animals shall be kept under restrain
by the owner thereof at all times.
(Ord 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-206 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any animal which is permitted to run at large or on which the license tax
has not been paid or which has not been immunized as required by this article
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be impounded. In case of
any animal found running at large which cannot be captured or taken up by any
police office of the city or other person duly authorized by the governing body
and where ownership can be established, the owner of the animal shall be given
a summons or ticket for allowing the animal to run loose.
(Ord 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-207 TRANQUILIZER GUN; KILLING AUTHORIZED.
   The impounding officer shall be authorized to use a tranquilizer gun in the
enforcement of this article. He or she shall be further authorized to kill any
animal which it is impractical or impossible to catch, capture or tranquilize.
(Ord 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-208 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The impounding officer shall have the right of entry upon any private
unenclosed lots or lands for the purpose of collecting any animal whose
presence thereupon is a violation of this article. It shall be unlawful for any
person to interfere with the impounding officer in exercise of this right.
(Ord 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-209 IMPOUNDMENT.
   All dogs and cats found not having the tags provided for in §§ 2-203 and 2-
204 attached to their collars or harness, and all dogs and cats which go or
have gone upon the streets, alleys or public grounds, or upon the premises of
another person not the owner or keeper of the dogs or cats, except as otherwise
provided for herein, shall be seized and impounded by any officer or other
person appointed for such purpose and held for five days, and the owner or
keeper of such dog or cat who desires to reclaim the same can do so by paying
an impounding fee of $25 to the City Clerk; provided, however, that if the dog
or cat is in heat at the time the same was found running at large, then the
owner or keeper of such dog or cat who desires to reclaim the same can do so by
paying an impounding fee of $30 to the City Clerk. A fee of $10 per day will be
charged after five days. The City Clerk shall then issue an order for the
release of the impounded dog or cat; provided the annual tax shall have been
paid and the dog or cat, if more than four months of age, shall have been
vaccinated against rabies; the fee so collected shall be applied to the General
Fund.
(Ord. 4049, passed - -)
§ 2-210 BREAKING OR ENTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized to do so to break open or
attempt to break open any enclosure in which animals are confined or held
pursuant to the provisions of this article, or to take or let out any animal
placed therein by an officer of the city any animal taken by him or her, or in
any manner interfere with or hinder any officer of the city in the enforcement
of this article.
(Ord 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-211 TRESPASS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any animal to trespass upon,
or do injury to public or private property of another.
(Ord 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-212 DESTRUCTIVE AND NOISY ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or harborer of any dog, cat or other
animals to carelessly, willfully or maliciously permit such dog, cat or other
animals, to destroy or damage property or habitually cause a disturbance of the
peace.
(Ord 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-213 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to keep, own or
harbor any cross or vicious animal, unless such person shall keep the animal
securely fastened, tied and muzzled so that the animal cannot reach any person
to injure him or her or shall keep the animal in an enclosure securely fenced
so that the animal cannot escape therefrom.
   (b)   It any such animal is not so fastened, tied and muzzled, or fenced,
the city may take the animal and impound it at a shelter house provided for
such purposes or by a veterinarian, until such time as a hearing by the
Municipal Court for determination as herein provided can be had or until
release to the owner upon condition that the animal shall be temporarily kept
and considered to be a vicious animal pending the hearing.
   (c)   Upon complaint duly made to any law enforcement officer or humane
officer and if the officer finds there is probable cause to believe the
complaint is true or if upon his or her own observation of an animal, the
officer has a reasonable belief that the animal is a vicious animal, he or she
shall make an attempt to notify and request the owner, keeper or harborer to
confine the animal. In the event the owner, keeper or harborer cannot be
notified, refuses or is unable to act upon such notification or the immediate
nature of the situation warrants action without notice, any law enforcement or
humane officer may capture and impound any animal. In all cases where the
complaint is made or where a law enforcement or humane officer acts upon his or
her own observations, regardless of whether the animal is taken into custody, a
hearing for the determination of whether the animal is dangerous or vicious
shall be held by the Municipal Court.
   (d)   Upon a determination that an animal is not dangerous or vicious, it
shall be released to its owner, keeper or harborer upon payment of accrued
boarding fees. Upon a finding that an animal is dangerous or vicious, the
animal shall be released to the custody of its owner, keeper or harborer upon
the condition that the provisions of this section pertaining to keeping and
restraining the animal are met and accrued boarding fees are paid.
   (e)   Any law enforcement or humane officer is authorized to destroy any
animal, whether previously determined to be vicious or not, when, in his or her
best judgment, no other course of action is possible to preserve the safety of
the community.
(Ord 3258, passed - -; Ord. 4073, passed - -; Ord. 4230, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 2-214 DOG BITES; QUARANTINE.
   Whenever any dog has bitten a person, the owner or harborer of such dog
shall immediately notify the City Clerk. All such incidents shall be reported
to the county’s Health Officer who may order the dog quarantined on the owner’s
premises or impounded at the owner’s expense for a period of not less than ten
days and until such time as the Health Officer finds that such dog shows no
evidence of having rabies. If it is determined that such dog is suffering from
rabies, it shall be forthwith destroyed; otherwise, it shall be released from
quarantine upon payment of impounding charges, if any, as provided in §
2-209 of this article.
(Ord. 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-215 SAME; PROCLAMATION.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized, whenever, in his or her opinion, the danger
of the public safety from rabid animals is made imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning any animal in the city to confine the
animal in a good and sufficient enclosure from which the animal cannot escape,
or fasten such animal by means of a chain on the premises where the owner may
reside, for such time as may be specified in such proclamation. Any animal not
confined during such time may be disposed of wherever found by any police
officer or the duly authorized animal officer of the city. The owner of such
animal shall be prosecuted for such violation thereof.
(Ord. 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-216 SEEING EYE DOGS.
   Seeing eye dogs used by blind persons shall, by reason of circumstances and
training of such dogs, be exempt from this article, except that portion
requiring rabies inoculation. Such blind persons, upon presentation of a
current rabies certificate, as set forth in §
2-204 , shall be presented a license tag, except there shall be no charge. Such
seeing eye dog shall not be impounded and every effort shall be made to return
the dog to the custody of its owner as promptly as possible.
(Ord. 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-217 ABANDONING ANIMALS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring within the city limits any
animal and abandon the same and allow them to run at large in the streets,
alleys and public places in the city.
(Ord. 3258, passed - -)
§ 2-218 ADOPTION OF ANIMALS.
   An adoption fee of $10 will be charged to any person wishing to adopt an
animal kept more than five days by the city. In addition, such person will be
required to provide shots and a license as stated in §
2-209 .
§ 2-219 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS.
   If any dog is not redeemed by its owner or harborer within the time allowed
for redemption as specified in §
2-209 thereof, the animal control officer, any authorized law enforcement
officer, any authorized veterinarian or any duly authorized pound personnel may
destroy such dog or sell the same for the costs of impoundment and keeping,
plus any registration fee due for the current year.
§ 2-220 ANIMAL RESTRAINT.
   If an animal is to be restrained within the city limits, the following
conditions shall apply.
   (a)   A dog may be exclusively restrained by a chain or tether; provided
that it is at least ten feet in length, with swivels on both ends, and is
properly attached to a pulley or trolley mounted on a cable which is also at
least ten feet in length, and mounted on a cable which is at least four feet
and no more than seven feet above ground level, in a manner so as not to
interfere with or become entangled with objects on the property.
   (b)   Any tethering system employed shall not allow the dog or puppy to
leave the owner’s property. No chain or tether shall weigh more than one-eighth
of the dog or puppy’s body weight. Any chain or tether shall be affixed to a
properly fitting collar or harness.
(Ord. 4068, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 2-221 ANIMAL CONFINEMENT.
   (a)   Any owner of any dog or cat shall provide the animal with adequate
shelter that meets the minimum specifications of this section.
   (b)   Said shelter shall:
      (1)   Allow the dog or cat to remain dry and protected from the elements;
provided, that metal barrels shall not be considered adequate shelter;
      (2)   Be small enough to retain the animal’s body heat and large enough
to allow the animal to stand and turn comfortably;
      (3)   Be structurally sound and in good repair; and
      (4)   Contain adequate and appropriate bedding.
   (c)   Any owner of any dog or cat that elects to confine the animal to a pen
or enclosure shall, in addition to the requirements of subsection (b) above,
provide a pen or enclosure that meets the minimum specifications of this
subsection (c). Said pen or enclosure shall:
      (1)   Have not less than 100 square feet of space for each adult dog;
provided, boarding kennels shall be exempt from this provision;
      (2)   Provide adequate drainage to prevent surface water from standing in
the area of the pen or enclosure where the animal is kept; and
      (3)   Be maintained in a manner so as to keep the area free from an
accumulation of feces, debris or any other natural or human-made objects which
might cause harm to the animal being confined.
   (d)   Any person convicted of violating the terms of this section shall, in
addition to court costs, for the first offense, pay a fine of $50 per animal;
for a second offense, pay a fine of $100 per animal; and, for a third offense,
a fine of not more than $150 per animal. Fines for all subsequent offenses
shall increase in increments of $50, not to exceed $300 per animal. After the
third offense, an animal may be ordered to be confined at the owner’s expense,
as decreed by the presiding legal authority, until such compliance with this
section is met.
(Ord. 4068, passed 5-29-2007)
ARTICLE 3: OTHER ANIMALS
Section
2-301Exotic animals
§ 2-301 EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep,
maintain or have in his or her possession or under his or her control within
the city any poisonous reptile or any other dangerous wild animal or reptile,
any vicious or dangerous animal, or any other animal or reptile of wild,
vicious or dangerous propensities.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the city any of the
following animals:
      (1)   All poisonous animals including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes: chimpanzees; gibbons; gorillas; orangutans; and siamangs;
      (3)   Baboons;
      (4)   Badgers;
      (5)   Bears;
      (6)   Bison;
      (7)   Bobcats;
      (8)   Cheetahs;
      (9)   Crocodilians, 30 inches in length or more;
      (10)   Constrictor snakes, six feet in length or more;
      (11)   Coyotes;
      (12)   Deer; includes all members of the deer family, for example, white-
tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      (13)   Elephants;
      (14)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (15)   Hippopotami;
      (16)   Hyenas;
      (17)   Jaguars;
      (18)   Leopards;
      (19)   Lions;
      (20)   Lynxes;
      (21)   Monkeys;
      (22)   Ostriches;
      (23)   Pumas; also known as cougars, mountain lions and panthers;
      (24)   Raccoons;
      (25)   Rhinoceroses;
      (26)   Skunks;
      (27)   Tigers; and
      (28)   Wolves.
   (c)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to bona fide pet
shops, zoos, circuses, carnivals, educational institutions or medical
institutions, if:
      (1)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the zoning ordinance
of the city;
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors; and
      (3)   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to prevent
their escape.
   (d)   The Municipal Judge shall have the authority to order any animal
deemed vicious confined, destroyed or removed from the city.
ARTICLE 4: PIT BULL DOGS
Section
2-401Definitions
2-402Restrictions
2-403Violations and penalties
§ 2-401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The taking or picking up and confining of an animal by any
police officer, Animal Control Officer or any other public officer under the
provisions of this chapter.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft material or of metal, designed
to fasten over the mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from biting any
person or other animal.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity owning,
harboring or possessing any pit bull, or in the case of a person under the age
of 18, that person’s parent or legal guardian. A pit bull shall be deemed to be
harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three or more consecutive days. This
definition shall not apply to any veterinary clinic or boarding kennel.
   PIT BULL. Includes any of the following dogs:
      (1)   The bull terrier breed of dog;
      (2)   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dog;
      (3)   The American pit bull terrier breed of dog;
      (4)   The American Staffordshire terrier breed of dog;
      (5)   Dogs of mixed breed or of other breeds than above listed which
breed or mixed breed is known as pit bull, pit bull dogs or pit bull terriers;
and
      (6)   Any dog which has the appearance and characteristics of being
predominantly of the breeds of dogs known as bull terrier, Staffordshire bull
terrier, American pit bull terrier, American Staffordshire terrier and any
other breed commonly known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs or pit bull terriers; or
a combination of any of these breeds.
   PREDOMINANTLY. Knowledge through identification procedures or otherwise, or
admission by owner, keeper or harborer that the dog is more than 50% pit bull.
PREDOMINANTLY also means that the dog exhibits the physical characteristics of
a pit bull more than that of any other breed of dog.
   SANITARY CONDITION. A condition of good order and cleanliness to minimize
the possibility of disease transmission.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. The dog is secured by a leash, led under the control of a
person physically capable of restraining the dog and obedient to that person’s
commands or securely enclosed within the real property limits of the owner’s
premises.
(Ord. 4168, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 2-402 RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor own or in any way possess a pit bull
dog within the corporate limits of the city. The owner, harborer or person in
possession of the animal will be given the opportunity to remove the animal
from the city to a shelter or other home within five consecutive days of notice
or receive a ticket for violation of this article and the alleged pit bull will
be impounded.
(Ord. 4168, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 2-403 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any persons violating or permitting the violation of any provision of this
article shall, upon conviction in Municipal Court, be fined a sum of not less
than $200 or more than $1,000. Each day such violation shall continue
constitutes a separate offense. In addition to the fine imposed, the court may
sentence the defendant to imprisonment in the jail for a period not to exceed
30 days. In addition, the court shall order the pit bull dog removed from the
city. Should the defendant refuse to remove the dog from the city, the
Municipal Court Judge shall find the defendant owner in contempt and order the
immediate confiscation and impoundment of the animal. Each day that a violation
of this article continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to
the foregoing penalty, any person who violates this article shall pay all
expenses, including sums for shelter, food, handling, veterinary care and
expert testimony, which are necessitated by the person’s failure to abide by
the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 4168, passed 11-12-2013)
CHAPTER III: BEVERAGES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
      
3.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
4.   PRIVATE CLUBS
      
5.   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
      
6.   CATERERS
      
7.   TEMPORARY PERMITS (K.S.A. 41-719)
      
8.   SPECIAL EVENT CMB PERMITS
      
9.   KEG REGISTRATION
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
3-101   Definitions
   
3-102   Restriction on location
   
3-103   Minors on premises
   
3-104   Consumption on public property
   
3-105   Public sale; consumption
   
3-106   Consumption while driving
   
3-107   Identification card
§ 3-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol, but does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, spirits, wine, beer and every liquid or solid,
patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being
consumed as a beverage by a human being, but shall not include any cereal malt
beverage.
   CATERER. An individual, partnership or corporation which sells alcoholic
liquor by the individual drink, and provides services related to the serving
thereof, on unlicensed premises which may be open to the public, but does not
include a holder of a temporary permit selling alcoholic liquor in accordance
with the terms of such permit.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Any fermented but undistilled liquor brewed or made
from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt substitute, but does not include
any such liquor which is more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   CLASS A CLUB. A premises which is owned or leased by a corporation,
partnership, business trust or association and which is operated thereby as a
bona fide nonprofit social, fraternal or war veterans’ club, as determined by
the state, for the exclusive use of the corporate stockholders, partners, trust
beneficiaries or associates (hereinafter referred to as members), and their
families and guests accompanying them.
   CLASS B CLUB. A premises operated for profit by a corporation, partnership
or individual, to which members of such club may resort for the consumption of
food or alcoholic beverages and for entertainment.
   CLUB. A Class A or Class B club.
   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT. Premises which may be open to the general public,
where alcoholic liquor by the individual drink is sold.
   GENERAL RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
at retail.
   LIMITED RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
at retail only in original and unopened containers and not for consumption on
the premises.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any place at which cereal malt beverages, or alcoholic
beverages, or both are sold.
   TEMPORARY PERMIT. A permit, issued in accordance with the laws of the state,
which allows the permit holder to offer for sale, sell and serve alcoholic
liquor for consumption on unlicensed premises, open to the public.
   WHOLESALER or DISTRIBUTOR. Any individuals, firms, co-partnerships,
corporations and associations which sell or offer for sale any beverage
referred to in this chapter, to persons, co-partnerships, corporations and
associations authorized by this chapter to sell cereal malt beverages at
retail.
§ 3-102 RESTRICTION ON LOCATION.
   (a)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or served by a person holding a
license or permit from the city whose place of business or other premises are
located within 200 feet of any church, school, nursing home, library or
hospital.
   (b)   The distance location of subsection (a) above shall not apply to a
club, drinking establishment, caterer or temporary permit holder when the
license or permit applicant petitions for and receives a waiver of the distance
limitation from the governing body. The governing body shall grant such a
waiver only following public notice and hearing and a finding by the governing
body that the proximity of the establishment is not adverse to the public
welfare or safety.
   (c)   No license or permit shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor
if the building or use does not meet the zoning ordinance requirements of the
city or conflicts with other city laws, including building and health codes.
(Ord. 3871, passed - -)
§ 3-103 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
remain on any premises where the sale of alcoholic liquor is licensed for on-
premises consumption, or where a caterer or temporary permit holder is serving
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for the operator, person in charge, or licensee
of any premises licensed for on-premises consumption of alcoholic liquor or a
caterer or temporary permit holder who is serving alcoholic liquor to permit
any person under the age of 21 years to remain on the premises.
   (c)   This section shall not apply if the person under the age of 21 years
is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or if the licensed or
permitted premises derive not more than 30% of its gross receipts in each
calendar year from the sale of alcoholic liquor for on-premises consumption.
§ 3-104 CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall drink or consume any alcoholic liquor on city owned
public property. However, this prohibition shall not apply to:
      (1)   Property owned by the city and leased to third parties; or
      (2)   During the annual Eureka Days Celebration, the Eureka Area Chamber
of Commerce may conduct a beer garden at the Community Building, 110 N.
Jefferson and the Tennis Court of the city park.
   (b)   All regulations as set out in this article will be in force.
(K.S.A. 41-719) (Ord. 3956, passed - -)
§ 3-105 PUBLIC SALE; CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve or dispense any
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic beverage in any public place not licensed to
sell, serve or dispense such beverage at such public place within or under the
jurisdiction of the city.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or consume any cereal
malt beverage or alcoholic beverage in any public place not licensed to sell
and serve such beverage for public consumption at such public place within or
under the jurisdiction of the city.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, the term PUBLIC PLACE shall include upon
any street, public thoroughfare, public parking lot or any privately-owned
parking area made available to the public generally, within any parked or
driven motor vehicle situated in any of the aforesaid places or upon any
property owned by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless such
property is leased to others under K.S.A. 12-1740 et seq., if the property is
being used for hotel or motel purposes or purposes incidental thereto or is
owned or operated by an airport authority created pursuant to K.S.A. Ch. 27.
(K.S.A. 41-719)
§ 3-106 CONSUMPTION WHILE DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic beverage while operating any vehicle upon any street or highway.
(K.S.A. 8-1599, 41-719)
§ 3-107 IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or have in possession,
any fictitious, fraudulently altered or fraudulently obtained identification
card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (2)   Display or represent any identification card not issued to such
person as being his or her card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or
consumption of either cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (3)   Permit any unlawful use of an identification card issued to a
person for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor; and
      (4)   Photograph, photostat, duplicate or in any way reproduce any
identification card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could be
mistaken for a valid identification card or display or have in possession any
such photograph, photostat, duplicate, reproduction or facsimile for purposes
relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Lend any identification card to or knowingly permit the use of any
identification card by any person under 21 years of age for use in the sale,
purchase or consumption of any alcoholic liquor; or
      (2)   Lend any identification card to or knowingly permit the use of any
identification card by any person under 21 years of age for use in the sale,
purchase or consumption of any cereal malt beverage.
ARTICLE 2: CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
Section
   
3-201   Definition
   
3-202   License issued by city
   
3-203   License required of retailer
   
3-204   Application
   
3-205   License application procedures
   
3-206   License granted; denied
   
3-207   License to be posted
   
3-208   License disqualification
   
3-209   Restriction upon location
   
3-210   License fee
   
3-211   Suspension of license
   
3-212   License suspension/revocation by governing body
   
3-213   Same; appeal
   
3-214   Change of location
   
3-215   Wholesalers and/or distributors
   
3-216   Business regulations
   
3-217   Prohibited conduct on premises
   
3-218   Sanitary conditions required
§ 3-201 DEFINITION.
ENHANCED CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE means cereal malt beverage as that term is
defined in K.S.A. 41-2701, and amendments thereto, and such term shall include
beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume when such beer is sold by a
retailer licensed under the Kansas cereal malt beverage act.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-202 LICENSE ISSUED BY CITY.
The "Cereal Malt Beverage License" issued by the City of Eureka pursuant to
this article authorizes the sale of enhanced cereal malt beverage as defined in
§
3-201 , by those retailers in compliance with this article and other laws and
regulations that may apply.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-203 LICENSE REQUIRED OF RETAILER.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any enhanced cereal malt
beverage at retail without a license for each place of business where enhanced
cereal malt beverages are to be sold at retail.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, having a license to sell enhanced
cereal malt beverages at retail only in the original and unopened containers
and not for consumption on the premises, to sell any enhanced cereal malt
beverage in any other manner.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-204 APPLICATION.
   (a)   Any person desiring a license shall make an application to the
governing body of the city and accompany the application by the required
license fee for each place of business for which the person desires the
license. The application shall be verified, and upon a form prepared by the
attorney general of the State of Kansas, and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and residence of the applicant and how long he or she has
resided within the State of Kansas;
      (2)   The particular place for which a license is desired;
      (3)   The name of the owner of the premises upon which the place of
business is located;
      (4)   The names and addresses of all persons who hold any financial
interest in the particular place of business for which a license is desired.
      (5)   A statement that the applicant is a citizen of the United States
and not less than 21 years of age and that he or she has not within two years
immediately preceding the date of making application been convicted of a felony
or any crime involving moral turpitude, or been adjudged guilty of drunkenness,
or driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
the violation of any other intoxicating liquor law of any state or of the
United States;
   (b)   The application shall be accompanied by a statement, signed by the
applicant, authorizing any governmental agency to provide the city with any
information pertinent to the application. One copy of such application shall
immediately be transmitted to the Greenwood County Sheriff for investigation of
the applicant. It shall be the duty of the Sheriff to investigate such
applicant to determine whether he or she is qualified as a licensee under the
provisions of this chapter. The Sheriff shall report to the city not later than
five working days subsequent to the receipt of such application. The
application shall be scheduled for consideration by the governing body at the
earliest meeting consistent with current notification requirements.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-205 LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (a)   All applications for a new and renewed enhanced cereal malt beverage
license shall be submitted to the City Clerk 10 days in advance of the
governing body meeting at which they will be considered.
   (b)   The City Clerk's office shall notify the applicant of an existing
license 30 days in advance of its expiration.
   (c)   The Clerk's office shall provide copies of all applications to the
Sheriff's Department when they are received. The Sheriff's Department will run
a record check on all applicants. The Sheriff's Department will then recommend
approval, or disapproval, of applications within five working days of the
Department's receipt of the application.
   (d)   The governing body will not consider any application for a new or
renewed license that has not been submitted 10 days in advance and been
reviewed by the Sheriff’s Department.
   (e)   An applicant who has not had an enhanced cereal malt beverage license
in the city shall attend the governing body meeting when the application for a
new license will be considered.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-206 LICENSE GRANTED; DENIED.
   (a)   The journal of the governing body shall show the action taken on the
application.
   (b)   If the license is granted, the City Clerk shall issue the license
which shall show the name of the licensee and the year for which issued.
   (c)   No license shall be transferred to another licensee.
   (d)   If the license shall be denied, the license fee shall be immediately
returned to the person who has made application.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-207 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
Each license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the place of business
for which the license is issued.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-208 LICENSE DISQUALIFICATION.
   (a)   A person who has not been a resident in good faith of the state of
Kansas for at least one year immediately preceding application and a resident
of Greenwood County for at least six months prior to filing of such
application.
   (b)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   (c)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides.
   (d)   A person who, within two years immediately preceding the date of
making application, has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude, or has been adjudged guilty of drunkenness or driving a motor
vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or the violation of
any other intoxicating liquor law of any state or of the United States.
   (e)   A partnership, unless all the members of the partnership shall
otherwise be qualified to obtain a license.
   (f)   A corporation if any manager, officer or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of such
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason
other than non-residence within the city or county.
   (g)   A corporation, if any manager, officer or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of such
corporation, has been an officer, manager or director, or a stockholder owning
in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock, of a corporation which:
      (1)   Has had a retailer's license revoked under K.S.A. 41-2708 and
amendments thereto; or
      (2)   Has been convicted of a violation of the drinking establishment act
or the cereal malt beverage laws of this state.
   (h)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   (i)   A person whose spouse would be ineligible to receive a retailer's
license for any reason other than citizenship, retailer residency requirements
or age, except that this subsection (i) shall not apply in determining
eligibility for a renewal license.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-209 RESTRICTION UPON LOCATION.
[Note, subsections (b), (c) and (d) are optional and not required by state
law.]
   (a)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any enhanced
cereal malt beverage on premises which are located in areas not zoned for such
purpose.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to sell or dispense at retail any enhanced cereal
malt beverage at any place within the city limits that is within a 200-foot
radius of any church, school or library.
   (c)   Provisions shall not apply to any establishment holding a private club
license issued by the State of Kansas.
   (d)   The distance limitation of subsection (b) above shall not apply to any
establishment holding an enhanced cereal malt beverage license issued by the
city when the licensee has petitioned for and received a waiver of the distance
limitation. The governing body shall grant such a waiver only following public
notice and hearing.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-210 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   The rules and regulations regarding license fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   General Retailer. For each place of business selling enhanced
cereal malt beverages at retail, $150 per calendar year.
      (2)   Limited Retailer. For each place of business selling only at retail
enhanced cereal malt beverages in original and unopened containers and not for
consumption on the premises, $50 per calendar year.
   (b)   Full amount of the license fee shall be required regardless of the
time of the year in which the application is made, and the licensee shall only
be authorized to operate under the license for the remainder of the calendar
year in which the license is issued.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-211 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
The Greenwood County Sheriff, upon five days' written notice, shall have the
authority to suspend such license for a period not to exceed 30 days, for any
violation of the provisions of this article or other laws pertaining to
enhanced cereal malt beverages, which violation does not in his or her judgment
justify a recommendation of revocation. The licensee may appeal such order of
suspension to the governing body within seven days from the date of such order.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-212 LICENSE SUSPENSION/REVOCATION BY GOVERNING BODY.
The governing body of the city, upon five days' written notice, to a person
holding a license to sell enhanced cereal malt beverages shall permanently
revoke or cause to be suspended for a period of not more than 30 days such
license for any of the following reasons:
   (a)   If a licensee has fraudulently obtained the license by giving false
information in the application therefor;
   (b)   If the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this section or
has become ineligible to obtain a license under this section;
   (c)   Drunkenness of a person holding such license, drunkenness of a
licensee's manager or employee while on duty and while on the premises for
which the license is issued, or for a licensee, his or her manager or employee
permitting any intoxicated person to remain in such place selling enhanced
cereal malt beverages;
   (d)   The sale of enhanced cereal malt beverages to any person under 21
years of age;
   (e)   For permitting any gambling in or upon any premises licensed;
   (f)   For permitting any person to mix drinks with materials purchased in
any premises licensed or brought into the premises for this purpose;
   (g)   For the employment of any person under the age established by the
State of Kansas for employment involving dispensing enhanced cereal malt
beverages;
   (h)   For the employment of persons adjudged guilty of a felony or of a
violation of any law relating to intoxicating liquor;
   (i)   For the sale or possession of, or for permitting the use or
consumption of alcoholic liquor within or upon any premise licensed;
   (j)   The nonpayment of any license fees;
   (k)   If the licensee has become ineligible to obtain a license;
   (l)   The provisions of subsections (f) and (i) shall not apply if such
place of business is also currently licensed as a private club.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-213 SAME; APPEAL.
The licensee, within 20 days after the order of the governing body revoking any
license, may appeal to the district court of Greenwood County and the district
court shall proceed to hear such appeal as though such court had original
jurisdiction in the matter. Any appeal taken shall not suspend the order of
revocation of the license of any licensee, nor shall any new license be issued
to such person or any person acting for or on his or her behalf, for a period
of six months thereafter.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-214 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
If a licensee desires to change the location of his or her place of business,
he or she shall make an application to the governing body showing the same
information relating to the proposed location as in the case of an original
application. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee of $25. If the
application is in proper form and the location is not in a prohibited zone and
all other requirements relating to such place of business are met, a new
license shall be issued for the new location for the balance of the year for
which a current license is held by the licensee.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-215 WHOLESALERS AND/OR DISTRIBUTORS.
It shall be unlawful for any wholesaler and/or distributor, his, her or its
agents or employees, to sell and/or deliver enhanced cereal malt beverages
within the city, to persons authorized to sell the same within this city unless
such wholesaler and/or distributor has first secured a license from the
director of revenue, state commission of revenue and taxation of the State of
Kansas authorizing such sales.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-216 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
It shall be the duty of every licensee to observe the following regulations:
   (a)   The place of business licensed, and operating shall at all times have
a front and rear exit unlocked when open for business.
   (b)   The premises and all equipment used in connection with such business
shall be kept clean and in a sanitary condition and shall at all times be open
to the inspection of the police and health officers of the city, county and
state.
   (c)   Except as provided by subsection (d), no enhanced cereal malt
beverages may be sold or dispensed:
      (1)   Between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.;
      (2)   In the original package before 12:00 noon or after 8:00 p.m. on
Sunday;
      (3)   On Easter Sunday; or
      (4)   For consumption on the licensed premises on Sunday, except in a
place of business which is licensed to sell enhanced cereal malt beverage for
consumption on the premises, which derives not less than 30% of its gross
receipts from the sale of food for consumption on the licensed premises.
   (d)   Enhanced cereal malt beverages may be sold at any time alcoholic
liquor is allowed by law to be served on premises which are licensed pursuant
to K.S.A. 41-2601, et seq. and amendments thereto, and licensed as a club by
the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
   (e)   The place of business shall be open to the public and to the police at
all times during business hours, except that premises licensed as a club under
a license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control shall be
open to the police and not to the public.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or agent or employee of the
licensee to become intoxicated in the place of business for which such license
has been issued.
   (g)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
intoxicated person to remain in the place of business for which such license
has been issued.
   (h)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall sell or permit
the sale of enhanced cereal malt beverage to any person under 21 years of age.
   (i)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
gambling in the place of business for which such license has been issued.
   (j)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to mix alcoholic drinks with materials purchased in said place of
business or brought in for such purpose.
   (k)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall employ any
person under 18 years of age in dispensing enhanced cereal malt beverages. No
licensee shall employ any person who has been judged guilty of a felony.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-217 PROHIBITED CONDUCT ON PREMISES.
The following conduct by an enhanced cereal malt beverage licensee, manager or
employee of any licensed enhanced cereal malt beverage establishment is deemed
contrary to public welfare and is prohibited:
   (a)   Remaining or permitting any person to remain in or upon the premises
who exposes to view any portion of the female breasts below the top of the
areola or any portion of males/female's pubic hair, anus, buttocks or genitals;
   (b)   Permitting any employee on the licensed premises to touch, caress or
fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals of any other employee or
any patron;
   (c)   Encouraging or permitting any patron on the licensed premises to
touch, caress or fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva, or genitals of any
employee;
   (d)   Performing or permitting any person to perform on the licensed
premises acts of or acts which simulate:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, or any other sexual act
which is prohibited by law; or
      (2)   Touching, caressing or fondling such persons' breasts, buttocks,
anus or genitals.
   (e)   Using or permitting any person to use on the licensed premises, any
artificial devices or inanimate objects to depict any of the acts prohibited by
paragraph (d).
   (f)   Showing or permitting any person to show on the licensed premises any
motion picture, film, photograph, electronic reproduction, or other visual
reproduction depicting:
      (1)   Acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy,
or any sexual act which is prohibited by law;
      (2)   The touching, caressing or fondling of the buttocks, anus, genitals
or the female breasts;
      (3)   Scenes in which a person displays the buttocks, anus, genitals or
the female breasts.
   (g)   The term PREMISES means the premises licensed by the city as an
enhanced cereal malt beverage establishment and such other areas, under the
control of the licensee or his or her employee or employees, that are in such
close proximity to the licensed premises that activities and conduct of persons
within such other areas may be viewed by persons on or within the licensed
premises.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 3-218 SANITARY CONDITIONS REQUIRED.
All parts of the licensed premises including furnishings and equipment shall be
kept clean and in a sanitary condition, free from flies, rodents and vermin at
all times. The licensed premises shall have at least one restroom for each sex
easily accessible at all times to its patrons and employees. The restroom shall
be equipped with at least one lavatory with hot and cold running water, be well
lighted, and be furnished at all times with paper towels or other mechanical
means of drying hands and face. Each restroom shall be provided with adequate
toilet facilities which shall be of sanitary design and readily cleanable. The
doors of all toilet rooms shall be self-closing and toilet paper at all times
shall be provided. Easily cleanable receptacles shall be provided for waste
material and such receptacles in toilet rooms for women shall be covered. The
restrooms shall at all times be kept in a sanitary condition and free of
offensive odors and shall be at all times subject to inspection by the city
health officer or designee.
(Ord. 4250, passed 3-11-2019)
ARTICLE 3: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
   
3-301   State license required
   
3-302   Occupational tax
   
3-303   Posting of receipt
   
3-304   Hours of sale
   
3-305   Business regulations
   
3-306   Restrictions on location
§ 3-301 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep for sale, offer for sale
or expose for sale or sell any alcoholic liquor as defined by the state’s
Liquor Control Act without first having obtained a state license to do so.
   (b)   The holder of a license for the retail sale in the city of alcoholic
liquors by the package issued by the state’s Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control shall present such license to the City Clerk when applying to pay the
occupation tax levied in §
3-302 and the tax shall be received and a receipt shall be issued for the
period covered by the state license.
§ 3-302 OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   There is hereby levied a biennial occupation tax of $500 on any person
holding a license issued by the state’s Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control
for the retail sale within the city of alcoholic liquors for consumption off
the premises. Such tax shall be paid by the retailer to the City Clerk before
business is begun under an original state license and shall be paid within five
days after any renewal of a state license.
(K.S.A. 41-310)
§ 3-303 POSTING OF RECEIPT.
   Every licensee under this article shall cause the city alcoholic liquor
retailer’s occupation tax receipt to be placed in plain view, next to or below
the state license in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
§ 3-304 HOURS OF SALE.
   No person shall sell at retail any alcoholic liquor:
   (a)   Pursuant K.S.A. 41-2704 and 41-712, the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor and cereal malt beverage in the original package is allowed within the
city limits on any Sunday, except Easter, between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:
00 p.m., and on Memorial Day, Independence Day and Labor Day;
   (b)   On Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day; or
   (c)   Before 9:00 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m. on any day when the sale thereof
is permitted.
(K.S.A. 41-712) (Ord. 4039, passed - - ; Ord. 4251, passed 4-22-2019; Ord.
4286, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 3-305 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a retailer of alcoholic liquor to:
   (a)   Permit any person to mix drinks in or on the licensed premises unless
the person is preparing or mixing samples for the purposes of conducting wine,
beer or distilled spirit tastings, or any combination thereof, as authorized by
K.S.A. 41-308d, and amendments thereto;
   (b)   Employ any person under the age of 21 years in connection with the
operation of the retail establishment;
   (c)   Employ any person in connection with the operation of the retail
establishment who has been adjudged guilty of a felony;
   (d)   Furnish any entertainment in his or her premises or permit any pinball
machine or game of skill or chance to be located in or on the premises;
   (e)   Have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, cask or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor, except in the original package;
or
   (f)   Sell, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver, or permit the sale,
gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquor to or for any person under 21 years
of age.
(K.S.A. 41-713)
§ 3-306 RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATION.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly or unknowingly sell, give away, furnish,
dispose of, procure, exchange or deliver, or permit the selling, giving away,
furnishing, disposing of, procuring, exchanging or delivering of any alcoholic
beverage in any building, structure or premises, for consumption in such
building or upon such premises if such consumption is within 200 feet from the
nearest property line of any existing hospital, school, church or library.
   (b)   The restriction of subsection (a) does not apply to a retailer,
microbrewery, microdistillery or farm winery to be located within the core
commercial district which is described as .
(K.S.A. 41-710)
ARTICLE 4: PRIVATE CLUBS
Section
   
3-401   License required
   
3-402   Occupational tax
   
3-403   Business regulations
§ 3-401 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a private club license by the
state to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor authorized by such license within
the city without first obtaining a local license from the City Clerk.
§ 3-402 OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   There is hereby levied a biennial occupation tax of $300 on any person
holding a license issued by the state’s Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control,
for the retail sale within the city of alcoholic liquors for consumption off
the premises. Such tax shall be paid by the retailer to the city before
business is begun under an original state license and within five days after
any renewal of a state license.
§ 3-403 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No club licensed hereunder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor on its premises between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m. on any day other than Sunday, or between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
and 12:00 noon on Sundays. It shall be unlawful for any private club designated
in §
3-401 hereof, to allow any of its members or customers to remain inside the
club between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day other than Sunday,
or between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays. (Note: 6:00 a.m.
is the earliest a private club can serve alcoholic liquor; however, a city can
set a later start time. Prior to 2018 the start time could not be before 9:00
a.m.)
   (b)   Cereal malt beverages may be sold on premises licensed for the retail
sale of cereal malt beverages for on-premises consumption at any time when
alcoholic liquor is allowed by law to be served on the premises.
   (c)   No club membership shall be sold to any person under 21 years of age,
nor shall alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages be given, sold or traded
to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614) (Ord. 3041, passed - -)
ARTICLE 5: DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
3-501   License required
   
3-502   License fee
   
3-503   Business regulations
§ 3-501 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a drinking establishment license
by the state to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor authorized by such license
within the city without first obtaining a city license from the City Clerk.
§ 3-502 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a biennial license fee in the amount of $300 on
each drinking establishment located in the city which has a drinking
establishment license issued by the state’s Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control, which fee shall be paid before business is begun under an original
state license and within five days after any renewal of a state license.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the city drinking establishment license to
be placed in plain view next to or below the state license in a conspicuous
place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 4045, passed - -)
§ 3-503 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No drinking establishment licensed hereunder shall allow the serving,
mixing or consumption of alcoholic liquor on its premises between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day. (Note: 6:00 a.m. is the earliest a drinking
establishment can serve alcoholic liquor; however, a city can set a later start
time. Prior to 2018 the start time could not be before 9:00 a.m.)
   (b)   Cereal malt beverages may be sold on premises licensed for the retail
sale of cereal malt beverage for on-premises consumption at any time when
alcoholic liquor is allowed by law to be served on the premises.
   (c)   No alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages shall be given, sold
or traded to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
ARTICLE 6: CATERERS
Section
   
3-601   License required
   
3-602   License fee
   
3-603   Business regulations
   
3-604   Notice to Chief of Police
§ 3-601 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed by the state as a caterer to
sell alcoholic liquor by the drink, to sell or serve any liquor by the drink
within the city without obtaining a local caterer’s license from the City
Clerk.
§ 3-602 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied an annual license fee in the amount of $100 on
each caterer doing business in the city who has a caterer’s license issued by
the state’s Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which fee shall be paid
before business is begun under an original state license and within five days
after any renewal of a state license.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the caterer license to be placed in plain
view on any premises within the city where the caterer is serving or mixing
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises.
§ 3-603 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No caterer licensed hereunder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on
any day.
   (b)   No alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages shall be given, sold
or traded to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
§ 3-604 NOTICE TO CHIEF OF POLICE.
   Prior to any event at which a caterer will sell or serve alcoholic liquor by
the individual drink, the caterer shall provide written notice to the Chief of
Police at least 48 hours prior to the event if the event will take place within
the city. The notice shall contain the location, name of the group sponsoring
the event, and the exact date and times the caterer will be serving.
ARTICLE 7: TEMPORARY PERMITS (K.S.A. 41-719)
Section
   
3-701   Permit required
   
3-702   Permit fee
   
3-703   City temporary permit
   
3-704   Permit regulations
§ 3-701 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a temporary permit by the state
to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor within the city without first obtaining a
local temporary permit from the City Clerk.
§ 3-702 PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a temporary permit fee in the amount of $25 per
day on each group or individual holding a temporary permit issued by the
state’s Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control authorizing sales within the
city, which fee shall be paid before the event is begun under the state permit.
   (b)   Every temporary permit holder shall cause the temporary permit receipt
to be placed in plain view on any premises within the city where the holder of
the temporary permit is serving or mixing alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises.
§ 3-703 CITY TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct an event under a
state issued temporary permit without first applying for a local temporary
permit at least seven days before the event.
(K.A.R. 14-23-5)
      (2)   Written application for the local temporary permit shall be made to
the City Clerk and shall clearly state:
         (A)   The name of the applicant;
         (B)   The group for which the event is planned;
         (C)   The location of the event;
         (D)   The date and time of the event; and
         (E)   Any anticipated need for police, fire or other municipal
services.
   (b)   Upon presentation of a state temporary permit, payment of the city’s
temporary permit fee and a written application as provided for in subsection
(a) above, the City Clerk shall issue a local temporary permit to the applicant
if there are no conflicts with any zoning or other ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall notify the Chief of Police whenever a temporary
permit has been issued and forward a copy of the permit and application to the
Chief of Police.
§ 3-704 PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No temporary permit holder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. at
any event for which a temporary permit has been issued.
   (b)   No alcoholic beverages shall be given, sold or traded to any person
under 21 years of age.
ARTICLE 8: SPECIAL EVENT CMB PERMITS
Section
   
3-801   Permit required
   
3-802   Permit fee
   
3-803   City special event permit
   
3-804   Permit regulations
§ 3-801 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or serve any CMB at any special
event within the city without first obtaining a local special event permit from
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 4146, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 3-802 PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a special event permit fee in the amount of $50
on each group or individual, which fee shall be paid before the event begins.
Such fee shall be in addition to the $25 fee to be remitted to the Division of
Alcohol Beverage Control.
   (b)   Every special event permit holder shall cause the permit receipt to be
placed in plain view on any premises within the city where the holder of the
special event permit is serving CMB for consumption on the premises.
(Ord. 4146, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 3-803 CITY SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to serve CMB at a special event
without first applying for a local special event permit at least 30 days before
the event. Written application for the local special event permit shall be made
to the City Clerk on the form used for annual cereal malt beverage sales or,
when available, the special event CMB permit application approved by the
Attorney General, as directed by the City Clerk. In addition to any other
information required, the applicant shall provide the following:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The group for which the event is planned;
      (3)   The location of the event;
      (4)   The date and time of the event; and
      (5)   Any anticipated need for police, fire or other municipal services.
   (b)   Upon meeting the requirements to obtain a special event permit, the
City Clerk shall issue a local special event permit to the applicant if there
are not conflicts with any zoning or other ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall notify the Sheriff whenever a special event
permit has been issued and forward a copy of the permit and application to the
Sheriff.
(Ord. 4146, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 3-804 PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No special event permit holder shall allow the serving of CMB between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. at any event for which a special event
permit has been issued.
   (b)   No CMB shall be given, sold or traded to any person under 21 years of
age.
   (c)   No more than four special event permits may be issued in a calendar
year to the same applicant.
   (d)   No special event permit issued hereunder may be transferred or
assigned to any other vendor.
   (e)   All local ordinances and state statues for the sale and consumption of
CMB apply to holders of special event permits.
(Ord. 4146, passed 10-11-2011)
ARTICLE 9: KEG REGISTRATION
Section
   
3-901   Definitions
   
3-902   Retailer duties
   
3-903   Purchaser requirements
   
3-904   Identification requirements
   
3-905   Deposit refund
   
3-906   Violations
§ 3-901 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER. A beverage, containing more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, obtained by
alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or concoction of barley, or other grain,
malt and hops in water and includes beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and
similar beverages having such alcoholic content.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Any fermented but undistilled liquor brewed or made
from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt substitute, but does not include
any such liquor which is more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   KEG. A reusable container of beer or cereal malt beverage having a liquid
capacity of four or more gallons.
   LEGAL AGE FOR CONSUMPTION. Twenty-one years of age.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, trust or association.
   PROPER PROOF OF IDENTIFICATION. A photographic motor vehicle operator’s
license, a valid passport, a United States military identification card, a
state photographic non-driver’s identification card, or other official or
apparently official document, containing a photograph, signature and birth date
of the person.
   RETAILER. A person who sells at retail, or offers for sale at retail, beer
or cereal malt beverage for use or consumption and not for resale in any form,
and includes sales of beer or cereal malt beverage in a keg returnable to the
seller. Such terms shall not refer to or mean sales by a distributor or sales
by one retailer to another.
   SELL or SELL AT RETAIL. Sales of beer or cereal malt beverage for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form, and includes sales of beer or
cereal malt beverage in a keg returnable to the seller. Such terms shall not
refer to or mean sales by a distributor or sales by one retailer to another.
§ 3-902 RETAILER DUTIES.
   A retailer, or retailer’s employee or agent, prior to or at the time of any
sale at retail of a keg, shall:
   (a)   Affix or cause to be affixed to the keg a keg identification tag, in
accordance with the provisions of §
3-904 ;
   (b)   Require the purchaser to exhibit proper proof of identification. If
the purchaser fails to provide such proof of identification, the retailer shall
refuse to sell the keg to such person;
   (c)   Require the purchaser to sign a declaration and receipt for the keg in
the form provided for in §
3-904 ;
   (d)   Record on the declaration the keg identification tag number, the date
of sale, the purchaser’s name and address, and the type, number and expiration
date of the purchaser’s identification;
   (e)   Inform the purchaser, that any deposit paid by the purchaser for the
keg, if required, shall be forfeited if the keg is returned without the
original keg identification tag intact and readable;
   (f)   Require each purchaser of any such keg to acknowledge as part of the
declaration that persons under 21 are not of legal age for consumption of beer
or cereal malt beverage and that the declaration is subject to inspection by
law enforcement personnel; and
   (g)   Provide a copy of the declaration and receipt to the purchaser.
§ 3-903 PURCHASER REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person who purchases a keg or the contents thereof shall:
   (a)   Be of legal age to purchase, possess or use beer and cereal malt
beverage;
   (b)   Provide proof of identification and such other information as the
retailer may require in accordance with §
3-902 ;
   (c)   Sign a declaration and receipt in the form required by §
3-902 ;
   (d)   Not allow any person under the age of 21 to consume the keg contents
except as allowed by law;
   (e)   Not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or obliterated, the keg
identification tag required by §
3-902 ; and
   (f)   Maintain a copy of the declaration and receipt with the keg during the
time the keg is in the purchaser’s possession or control.
§ 3-904 IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   The keg identification tag required under this article shall be in the
form of a uniquely numbered and coded tag or label, prescribed and furnished by
the City Clerk. Such tag or label is used for a single sale of the marked keg
and is to be removed from the keg by the retailer upon return of the keg to the
retail seller and maintained with the records of the sale. Such tags shall be
fabricated and made attachable in such a manner as to make the tag removable
for the purpose of the cleaning and reusing the keg by a manufacturer.
   (b)   The declaration and receipt required shall be on a form prescribed and
furnished by the City Clerk and shall include the information as required by §§
3-902 and
3-903 thereof, and may include such other identifying information as the City
Clerk may deem necessary and appropriate.
   (c)   Retailers may apply for and receive keg identification tags and
declaration and receipt forms from the City Clerk upon submittal of an
application on a form as prescribed by the City Clerk and such proof as may be
required by the City Clerk that the applicant is duly licensed to sell beer or
cereal malt beverages in a keg. The City Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for
furnishing the tags and forms required by this article not to exceed the actual
cost of furnishing such tags and forms.
   (d)   The retailer shall retain a copy of all such declarations and receipts
required on the retailer’s licensed premises for a period of six months. Such
declarations and receipts shall be available for inspection and copying by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours for the purpose of
identifying persons suspected of a violation of law.
   (e)   Falsifying any information on a declaration and receipt shall be a
violation of this section.
§ 3-905 DEPOSIT REFUND.
   No retailer may refund any deposit upon return of a keg that:
   (a)   Does not have the required identification tag; or
   (b)   Has an identification tag that has been defaced to the extent that the
information contained on the tag cannot be read.
§ 3-906 VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Remove from a keg all or part of a keg identification tag required
pursuant to this article;
      (2)   Deface a keg identification tag to the extent the information
contained on the tag cannot be read;
      (3)   Fail to return a keg within ten days of the due date; or
      (4)   Possess a keg that does not have the keg identification tag.
   (b)   Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply to a
manufacturer, distributor or retailer, and subsection (a)(4) above shall not
apply to any person who finds a discarded keg on such person’s property.
CHAPTER IV: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
   Article
      
1.   FIRE LIMITS
      
2.   BUILDING CODE
      
3.   ELECTRICAL CODE
      
4.   PLUMBING AND GAS-FITTING CODE
      
5.   MOVING BUILDINGS
      
6.   DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
      
7.   NUMBERING BUILDINGS
      
8.   OIL AND GAS WELLS
ARTICLE 1: FIRE LIMITS
Section
   
4-101   Fire limits established
§ 4-101 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The following shall be and are hereby declared to be the fire limits of the
city: all of Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24,
25, 26, 32, 33, 38, 39, 46, 47, 51, 52, 61 and 62, all in the Original Townsite
of the City of Eureka, Kansas; all of Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 in Tucker’s
Addition to the City of Eureka, Kansas; all of Blocks 1, 2, 3 and 4 of S.M.
Bigg’s Addition to the City of Eureka, Kansas; all of Blocks 1, 2 and 3 of J.
D. Bigg’s Addition to the City of Eureka, Kansas; all of Blocks 7, 8, 21 and 22
of Bitler’s Addition to the City of Eureka, Kansas; all of Blocks 7, 8 and 21
of Bitler’s Second Addition to the City of Eureka, Kansas; all that portion of
the City of Eureka, Kansas, lying east of Jefferson Street from the center of
River Street to 300 feet north of the center of River Street; all that portion
of the City of Eureka, Kansas, lying between the east edge of Block 1 of J. D.
Bigg’s Addition to the City of Eureka, Kansas, and the west line of East Brook
Addition to the City of Eureka, Kansas from the center of River Street to 300
feet south of the center of River Street; all of the north 210 feet of Block 1,
East Brook Addition to the City of Eureka, Kansas; all of Blocks 3 and 6 of
East Brook Addition to the City of Eureka, Kansas; all that portion of the City
of Eureka, Kansas, lying between the east line of East Brook Addition to the
City of Eureka, Kansas, to the east city corporate line between the center of
River Street and 280 feet south of the center of River Street.
(Ord. 2359, passed - -)
ARTICLE 2: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
4-201   Definitions
   
4-202   International Building Code incorporated
   
4-203   Additional provisions
   
4-204   Building Official; powers; duties
   
4-205   Building Inspector; appointment
   
4-206   Same; duties
   
4-207   Same; powers
   
4-208   Same; right of entry
   
4-209   Clarification; modification
   
4-210   Building permit required; application; approval
   
4-211   Same; application information required
   
4-212   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-213   Same; fees
   
4-214   Same; posting
   
4-215   Certificate of approval
   
4-216   Inspections of building; layout of building; foundations and footings;
notice to Inspector
   
4-217   Request for inspection
   
4-218   Inspection fee
   
4-219   Work by property owners
   
4-220   Liability
   
4-221   Severability
   
4-222   Streets cleaned
   
4-223   Awnings over public property; canopies
   
4-224   Canopies; construction specifications; permits
   
4-225   Signs over public property
   
4-226   Signs over public property; heavy signs
   
4-227   Removal of debris
§ 4-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Mayor or his or her authorized designee.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney of the City of Eureka.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Eureka, Kansas.
§ 4-202 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, for the purpose
of establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration,
removal, demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of
buildings and structures, the International Building Code, 2015 Edition, as
recommended by the International Conference of Building Officials, such code
being made as a part of the ordinances and code of the city as if the same had
been set out in full herein, all as authorized and in the manner prescribed by
K.S.A. 12-3009 through 12-3012 including any amendments thereto. One copy of
the International Building Code, 2015 Edition, shall be marked or stamped
“Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of Eureka”, and shall be
filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public
at all reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating any provision of such code shall be punished as
provided in §
1-116 of this code.
§ 4-203 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-202 .
§ 4-204 BUILDING OFFICIAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (a)   This and other articles of the city relating generally to building and
structures shall be administered and enforced by the Mayor. The Mayor shall act
as Chief Building Official and may assume the responsibilities of or with the
consent and approval of the governing body appoint a Building Inspector and
such other assistants as may be advisable for the issuance of building permits
and the inspection of building work.
   (b)   The Building Official shall prepare such application, permit,
inspection and record forms as may be required for the purposes of the article.
The Building Official may make and promulgate the necessary rules and
regulations to obtain conformity with this article pertaining to the making of
applications for building permits, issuing of building permits, and inspecting
of buildings and building works.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -)
§ 4-205 BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor may assume the responsibilities of or appoint some qualified
officer or employee of the city to be and perform the duties of Building
Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and approval of the
governing body.
§ 4-206 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Building Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to construction, alteration,
repair, removal and demolition of building and structures;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction, not provided for in this article, and may, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted standard
of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus, national,
technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings in the process of erection, construction,
alteration or relocation in the city for the purpose of determining whether the
work is in compliance with the permit given and in compliance with the
regulations of the city pertaining to such work, including zoning regulations;
and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official without his or her written consent.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -)
§ 4-207 SAME; POWERS.
   The Building Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the building regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any builder or owner to appeal to the governing body.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -)
§ 4-208 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Building Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-209 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Building Code which may be unclear, ambiguous
or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Building Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Building Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Building Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code is
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Inspector
thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Building Inspector and a
signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -)
§ 4-210 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or authorized agent who intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish or change the occupancy of a
building or structure or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the
installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to
be done within the city without a building permit being first obtained therefor
from the City Clerk, after approval by the Chief Building Official or his or
her duly authorized assistant. The application for such permit shall be made
and the permit obtained before work is commenced upon any building or structure
or the foundation thereof, or before the removal of any building begins.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -)
§ 4-211 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   A building permit shall be issued upon an application in writing
to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The building work proposed;
         (D)   The outside dimensions of the building by floors and dimensions
of the basement (if any);
         (E)   The class of occupancy;
         (F)   The class of construction;
         (G)   The kind of materials to be used for walls, floors, ceilings,
roofs and foundations;
         (H)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (I)   The date work will commence;
         (J)   Expected date of completion;
         (K)   Name and address of contractor or contractors doing the work;
and
         (L)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   (1)   An application for a building permit shall be signed by the
owner or his or her duly authorized agent, or a building contractor licensed by
the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her agent, it shall
contain the name or names of the licensed contractor or contractors doing the
work described, or a building permit may be issued to the owner upon his or her
application disclosing satisfactory evidence that the proposed work will be
performed by the owner, himself or herself and not by a licensed contractor,
and likewise subject to the final approval of the Building Inspector for work
performed.
      (2)   If an application for a building permit indicates that it is for
commercial or residential roofing services, including construction,
installation, renovation, repair, maintenance, alteration or water-proofing,
the application shall include the contractor’s name, the contractor’s place of
business within the city (and home office if not a resident), the contractor’s
state registration number as issued under the State Roofing Registration Act
(K.S.A. 50-6,121 et seq.), and shall also be signed by the roofing contractor
or contractor’s authorized agent; provided, however, that this subsection (b)
(2) shall not apply to:
         (A)   An actual owner of commercial or residential property who
physically performs, or has employees who perform, roofing services on such
owner’s own dwelling or other structures located on the residential property
without the assistance of a registered roofing contractor;
         (B)   To those persons identified in K.S.A. 50-6,129(a)(1) through (a)
(8), and amendments there to; or
         (C)   To an “exempt general contractor”, as defined in K.S.A. 50-
6,122, and amendments thereto.
      (3)   If the application for a building permit indicates that it involves
renovation, repairing or painting of a home or child-occupied facility,
including day care centers and schools, built before 1978 and will disturb six
square feet of painted interior surfaces or 20 square feet of painted exterior
surfaces, the contractor performing the services must furnish proof of state
certification as a licensed renovation firm or renovator; provided, however,
that this subsection (b)(3) does not apply to a home owner performing work on
an owner-occupied residence. In addition, this subsection (b)(3) does not apply
to any other exception or exemption set forth in the State Department of Health
and Environment Renovation, Repair and Painting Rule, as described in K.A.R.
28-72-1:54 and in 40 C.F.R. pt. 745, and amendments thereto.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application, including, if required,
the verification of state roofer registration or other state certification, and
a determination that a permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or
his or her assistant shall issue a permit to the owner or contractor
authorizing the building work covered by the application. If applicable, the
permit shall include the roofer registration number or any other certification
or license number issued by the state.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the building work
authorized by such permit. BUILDING WORK COMMENCED for the purpose of this
section shall mean the beginning of building work other than the preparation of
plans or the staking out of the building location or the letting of a building
contract.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -)
§ 4-212 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a building permit is made, the Chief Building
Official may, if he or she finds it necessary to determine whether building
work described in the application will comply with the laws pertaining to such
work, require that the applicant file a written description or drawing of the
proposed building as may be prepared for the purpose. If such drawing or
description is insufficient for the purposes of determining whether a permit
should be issued, the Building Official may require the applicant to file
complete architectural and engineering plans and specifications for such
building, or any part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to
determine compliance with this article. The filing of such plans and
specifications and the approval thereof in connection with an application for a
permit shall not in any way affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a
permit, or to inspect any building work for conformity with this article.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -)
§ 4-213 SAME; FEES.
   (a)   Building permits required by this article shall be issued by the
Building Official only after payment of a permit fee to the City Clerk in the
following amounts:
      (1)   Thirty dollars for work costing over $100 and less than $1,000, and
$3 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof over $1,000, with a maximum
fee of $2,000;
      (2)   Trailer houses located on any lot other than a trailer court shall
require a flat fee of $30.
      (3)   Demolition permits required by this article shall be issued by the
Building Official only after payment of permit fee to the city in the following
amounts:
         (A)   Removal fee: $1,500 (if work is completed by city); and
         (B)   Capping of sewer: $150 (if completed by the city).
      (4)   Roofing permits required by this article shall be issued by the
Building Official only after payment of permit fee to the city in the following
amounts: permit fee: $15.
   (b)   The fees prescribed in this section shall, upon obtaining a building
permit, be paid to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -; Ord. 4053, passed - -; Ord. passed 7-25-2016; Ord.
4217, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 4-214 SAME; POSTING.
   (a)   A copy of the building permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same.
   (b)   The Building Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved
plans to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work
to the completion thereof.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -)
§ 4-215 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (a)   Upon the completion of any work under a building permit, the Chief
Building Official or the Building Inspector or his or her designee is
authorized to issue a certificate of approval for the occupancy and use of the
building or structure.
   (b)   The certificate shall show the number of inspections made and the
orders and corrections required during the course of the work.
   (c)   A copy of such certificate shall be given the owner.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -)
§ 4-216 INSPECTIONS OF BUILDING; LAYOUT OF BUILDING; FOUNDATIONS AND FOOTINGS;
NOTICE TO INSPECTOR.
   (a)   (1)   The contractor or builder having a permit for new construction,
or additions to existing buildings, shall notify the Chief Building Official or
Building Inspector immediately upon the marking or laying out of the site and
foundation for such work.
      (2)   The Official or Inspector shall inspect the layout for conformity
with this article and with respect to lot lines, setbacks and location of the
proposed buildings to determine conformity with the city zoning regulations.
      (3)   In case of doubt respecting the required location, the Chief
Building Official may require an official survey of the lot lines to determine
conformity, at the expense of the permit holder.
   (b)   Upon completion of the excavation for the building foundation and
footings and the construction of the necessary forms thereof and before the
foundation and footings are poured or laid, the Official or Inspector shall be
notified as in the first case, and it shall be his or her duty to inspect all
such work for conformity with laws respecting location of the building
foundations and footings.
   (c)   The Building Inspector shall, during the course of all building, make
such other inspections as may be directed by the Chief Building Official to be
made during any successive stage of the construction or other work covered by a
permit in order to secure compliance with laws pertaining thereto.
§ 4-217 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any building construction work covered by this
article, it shall be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the
Building Inspector and request that it be inspected; after which such work
shall be inspected promptly as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-218 INSPECTION FEE.
   An initial inspection fee of $10, and an inspection fee of $10, for
subsequent inspections required shall be paid before any building or
construction work will be approved or a certificate of approval issued.
§ 4-219 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
performing any building or construction work within and upon his or her own
residence and intended for his or her personal use and permanent occupancy;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the Building Inspector as to his or her
ability to perform such work, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive a
certificate of approval. Personal building or construction performed by an
owner under this section shall be by himself, herself, for himself or herself
on his or her own residence, without compensation and no person shall be
employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except a builder or
building contractor licensed by the city.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -)
§ 4-220 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from any liability or lessen
the liability of any person performing any activity connected herewith, nor
shall the city be held as assuming any liability by reason of any inspection
authorized herein, by reason of any certificate of inspection issued by it or
by reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-221 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the International Building Code or of this article shall
be held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the
remaining sections, the section to be completely severable from the remaining
provisions which shall continue in full force and effect.
§ 4-222 STREETS CLEANED.
   Every person obtaining a permit shall, within ten days after completion of
the work, cause that portion of the street of alley occupied by him or her with
building material to be thoroughly cleaned and cleared.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -)
§ 4-223 AWNINGS OVER PUBLIC PROPERTY; CANOPIES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to keep, construct, continue or maintain any
awning over, above or across any sidewalk, street, avenue, alley or other
public ground in this city, except awnings over sidewalks covered wholly by
canvass and which shall not extend over the sidewalk more than six feet and no
part of which shall be less than seven feet above the level of the sidewalk and
which awnings shall be supported by being securely fastened to the buildings
and no posts shall be set in the sidewalks, parking or streets in this city to
support such awnings.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
construction of canopies as provided in § 4-231 .
§ 4-224 CANOPIES; CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS; PERMITS.
   Canopies of permanent and substantial design and fireproof construction may
be erected in front of and project from any building upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter specified.
   (a)   Such canopies must be constructed of fireproof material and under the
supervision of the Fire Chief or Building Inspector of the city.
   (b)   Such canopies may project from such building over the sidewalk not to
exceed the width of the sidewalk measured from the lot line and shall have a
clearance of not less than ten feet above the sidewalk.
   (c)   No canopy shall be more than ten feet longer than the width of the
main entrance of the building in front of which it is constructed.
   (d)   All canopies must be suspended from the building and not supported by
columns resting upon the sidewalk.
   (e)   The canopy when erected must be so drained as not to discharge water
upon the sidewalk, nor upon the streets except by a closed drain.
   (f)   Before any such canopy shall be constructed, there must be exhibited
to the Fire Chief or Building Inspector a draft of the plans and specifications
for the same and a permit secured from the Fire Chief or Building Inspector for
such construction.
   (g)   Before the Fire Chief or Building Inspector shall grant such permit,
he or she shall carefully inspect the plans of such proposed structure and
determine that the same is safe and that the building from which it is to be
suspended is sufficiently strong to carry the weight of such structure.
   (h)   The applicant for such permit shall pay to the City Clerk $30 for such
inspection and permit.
(Ord. 2418, passed - -; Ord. 4042, passed - -)
§ 4-225 SIGNS OVER PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any sign, sign box or other
structure for advertising or other purposes, canopies and canvass awnings
excepted, over, across or upon any sidewalk or street unless the same is eight
feet or more above such sidewalk or street and does not extend more than eight
feet from the building line. All such signs, sign boxes and other structures
shall be supported wholly from the structure adjoining the sidewalk on the
inside of the building line, and all supports shall at all times be subject to
the inspection of the Fire Chief or Building Inspector and be made to meet his
or her requirements.
§ 4-226 SIGNS OVER PUBLIC PROPERTY; HEAVY SIGNS.
   Any person seeking to construct signs or other structures set out in §
4-225 , weighing more than 50 pounds over any sidewalk or street or upon any
building in the city, shall first secure permission from, the City Council to
do and shall obtain public liability insurance in an amount not less than
$5,000 and such insurance shall hold the city free and harmless from any damage
done to person or property, should such sign or structure fall, be blown down,
or otherwise be dislocated, and upon termination or revocation of such
insurance, such sign or structure shall be removed.
§ 4-227 REMOVAL OF DEBRIS.
   All debris and waste product from the construction, alteration, or
demolition shall be removed from the premises and disposed of in landfills
authorized to receive the same. Any hole, cavity or depression created by such
activity or exposed as a result thereof, including exposed basements and wells,
must be filled in, to a ground level, with clean fill dirt immediately upon
completion of the work.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -)
ARTICLE 3: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
4-301   Definitions
   
4-302   Adoption of Electrical Code by reference
   
4-303   Additional provisions
   
4-304   Building Official; authority
   
4-305   Work by property owners
   
4-306   Approved materials
   
4-307   Liability
   
4-308   Severability
§ 4-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Chief Building Official, the Electrical Inspector,
or his or her designee.
   AUTHORIZED PERSON. Any individual, firm or corporation who or which is
licensed under the provisions of this article to do the work as permitted under
the specified provisions of this article.
   CITY. The territory within the corporate limits of this city.
   CONDUCTOR. A wire or cable or other form of metal suitable for carrying the
electric current or potential.
   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION.
      (1)   Includes all work and materials used in installing, maintaining or
extending a system of electrical wiring and all appurtenances, apparatus or
equipment used in connection therewith, inside or attached to any building,
structure, lot or premises, except industrial plants where full-time
maintenance is provided and other agencies providing inspections of
installations and facilities.
      (2)   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION shall not be held to mean or include any of
the following:
         (A)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures, and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
         (B)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
         (C)   Any work in industrial establishments where inspections come
under the scope of other inspection agencies.
   EQUIPMENT. Conductors, materials, fittings, devices, appliances, fixtures,
apparatus, motors and the like, used as a part of or in connection with an
electrical installation.
   INSPECTOR. The Chief Building Official or any individual who has been
appointed by the city as Electrical Inspector.
   PERSON. A natural person, his or her heirs, executors, administrators or
assigns, and also includes a firm, partnership or corporation, its or their
successors, assigns or the agent of any of the aforesaid.
   SPECIAL PERMISSION. The written consent of the Chief Building Official or
the Electrical Inspector.
   SPECIAL RULING. A written ruling filed in the office of the Chief Building
Official or the Electrical Inspector.
§ 4-302 ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (a)   The standard code known as the National Electrical Code of 2014, a
publication of the National Fire Protection Association, the same being a
standard code for the installation of electrical wiring and apparatus and
available in book and pamphlet form is hereby incorporated by reference herein
and made a part of this article as authorized and in the manner prescribed by
K.S.A. 12-3009 through 12-3012. One copy shall be marked or stamped “Official
Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of Eureka”, and shall be filed
with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating any provision of such code shall be punished as
provided in §
1-116 of this code.
§ 4-303 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-302 .
§ 4-304 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor or his or her authorized designee shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this article and appointment of an Electrical
Inspector in accordance with §
4-204 , which shall apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-305 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
performing any electrical construction or installing electrical wiring or
equipment within and upon his or her own residence and intended for his or her
personal use and permanent occupancy; provided, the owner shall satisfy the
Electrical Inspector as to his or her ability to perform such work or install
such electrical wiring, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive a
certificate of approval. Personal electrical construction or installation
performed by an owner under this section shall be by himself, herself, for
himself or herself on his or her own residence, without compensation and no
person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except an
electrician or electrical contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-306 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   No electric materials for wiring of appliances or equipment shall be
installed in the city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this
article and with the approved standards of construction for safety to life and
property. Conformity of materials for wiring appliances and equipment to the
standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. shall be prima facie evidence
that the materials, devices, appliances and equipment comply with the
requirements of this article.
§ 4-307 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability, by reason of the inspection or re-inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval of any work or equipment authorized herein or by
reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-308 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the National Electrical Code or of this article shall be
held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the
remaining provisions of the National Electrical Code or of this article, the
section is to be completely severable from the remaining provisions which shall
continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 4: PLUMBING AND GAS-FITTING CODE
Section
   
4-401   Definition
   
4-402   Uniform Plumbing Code incorporated
   
4-403   Additional provisions
   
4-404   Building Official; authority
   
4-405   Plumbing Inspector; appointment
   
4-406   Same; duties
   
4-407   Clarification; modification
   
4-408   Same; fees
   
4-409   Same; posting
   
4-410   Request for inspection
   
4-411   Inspection; concealment of prior work
   
4-412   Inspection fee
   
4-413   Certificate of approval
   
4-414   Connection to gas or water supply
   
4-415   Condemnation; appeal
   
4-416   Excavations
   
4-417   Work by property owners
   
4-418   Approved materials
   
4-419   Liability
   
4-420   Severability
§ 4-401 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLUMBING. The installation of gas or water pipes, fixtures, apparatus and
the necessary connections either for supplying gas or water to premises or for
the removing of liquid and water-borne wastes from premises in the city, or
both such purposes, and shall also denote installed fixtures, drainage and vent
systems and gas or water distribution systems as the case may be.
§ 4-402 UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, for the purpose
of establishing rules and regulations for the practice of plumbing and gas-
fitting, including the installation, maintenance, extension and alteration of
all pipes, fixtures, appliances and appurtenances in connection with sanitary
sewers and public and private water and fuel gas systems, the Uniform Plumbing
Code, 2012 Edition, as recommended by the International Association of Plumbing
and Mechanical Officials, such code being made as a part of the ordinances and
code of the city as if the same had been set out in full herein, all as
authorized and in the manner prescribed by K.S.A. 12-3009 through 12-3012
including any amendments thereto. One copy of the uniform code shall be marked
or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of Eureka”,
and shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available
to the public at all reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating any provisions of such code shall be punished as
provided in §
1-116 of this code.
§ 4-403 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-402 .
§ 4-404 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor or his or her authorized designee shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this article and appointment of a Plumbing
Inspector in accordance with §
4-204 , which apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-405 PLUMBING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor may assume the responsibilities of or appoint some qualified
officer or employee of the city to be and perform the duties of Plumbing
Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and approval of the
governing body.
§ 4-406 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to plumbing construction,
alteration, repair or removal;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction, not provided for in this article, and may, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted standard
of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus, national,
technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings in the process of erection, construction,
alteration or relocation in the city for the purpose of determining whether the
work is in compliance with the plumbing permit given and in compliance with the
regulations of the city pertaining to such work, including zoning regulations;
and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official or Plumbing Inspector without his or her written consent.
§ 4-407 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Plumbing Code which may be unclear, ambiguous
or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Plumbing Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Plumbing Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code is
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Inspector
thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Plumbing Inspector and a
signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-408 SAME; FEES.
   (a)   The fee for a plumbing permit shall be $_______, however, no fee shall
be required to obtain a permit where the total estimated cost, the reasonable
value of all services, labor and materials required is under $________.
   (b)   The fee herein shall be paid to the City Clerk upon obtaining a
plumbing permit and the same shall be credited to the General Operating Fund of
the city.
§ 4-409 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the plumbing permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Plumbing Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof.
§ 4-410 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any plumbing work covered by this article, it shall
be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the Plumbing Inspector and
request that it be inspected; after which such work shall be inspected promptly
as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-411 INSPECTION; CONCEALMENT OF PRIOR WORK.
   (a)   (1)   When any plumbing is to be hidden from view by the permanent
placement of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing
the plumbing shall notify the Plumbing Inspector and such equipment shall not
be concealed until it has been inspected, approved or authorized by the
Plumbing Inspector or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays, shall have elapsed from the time of such notification.
      (2)   On large installations, where the concealment of plumbing proceeds
continuously, the person, firm or corporation installing the plumbing shall
give the Plumbing Inspector due notice and inspections shall be made
periodically during the progress of the work.
   (b)   (1)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the authority to require
owners or contractors to open such work which, in any manner, conceals plumbing
that has been closed without his or her knowledge or permission, and in no case
shall the Inspector issue a certificate of approval until satisfied that the
work is in accordance with the provisions of this article.
      (2)   The Inspector shall also have the right to refuse to issue a
certificate of approval on any plumbing, that is concealed in such manner that
it cannot be fully determined that it has been done in accordance with this
article.
§ 4-412 INSPECTION FEE.
   A fee of $30 will be charged and is to be paid by the owner of any building
before any inspection is made by the Inspector of Plumbing.
(Ord. 4047, passed - -)
§ 4-413 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (a)   When the Plumbing Inspector finds plumbing construction to be in
conformity with the provisions of this article, he or she shall issue to the
person, firm or corporation performing the plumbing construction, a certificate
of approval, with duplicate copy for delivery to the owner, authorizing the use
of the plumbing system and connection to the supply of gas or water, as the
case may be.
   (b)   When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection
and use of a temporary gas or water supply, the certificate shall expire at a
time to be stated therein and shall be revocable for cause by the Plumbing
Inspector.
   (c)   In no case shall certificates of approval be issued on plumbing or
plumbing systems or parts of systems where the work installed does not conform
to the requirements of this article.
   (d)   If, upon inspection, the plumbing or plumbing system is not found to
be fully in conformity with the provisions of this article, the Plumbing
Inspector shall immediately notify the person, firm or corporation making the
installation of the existing defects.
   (e)   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the plumbing or
plumbing system has been installed in strict conformity with the provisions of
this article and unless the plumbing or plumbing system is made in compliance
with nationally approved methods of construction for safety to life and
property as herein set forth.
   (f)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be deemed the judge of whether the
plumbing or plumbing system has been made in accordance with the requirements
of this article.
   (g)   No certificate of approval shall be required for making minor repairs
of any plumbing including repair of leaks in water pipes, traps or cocks,
opening up stoppage in waste or supply pipes, traps or drains, replacing
fixtures when waste pipes are not disturbed, or replacing frozen pipes inside
the building, and like repair work not involving original installation or
reconstruction.
§ 4-414 CONNECTION TO GAS OR WATER SUPPLY.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make
connection to a supply of gas or water for which an inspection is required, or
which has been disconnected by the order of the Plumbing Inspector, until a
certificate of approval has been issued by the Plumbing Inspector authorizing
the connection and use of such plumbing or plumbing system.
   (b)   The Plumbing Inspector may, at his or her discretion, authorize a
temporary connection.
§ 4-415 CONDEMNATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   If in the judgment of the Plumbing Inspector, after inspection, the
plumbing or plumbing system in any building are unsafe or dangerous to persons
or property, the Inspector shall have the power to cause the plumbing or
plumbing system to be disconnected from the supply of gas or water and may, at
his or her discretion, seal the control valves for the same in a closed or
disconnected position, whereupon he or she shall give notice to the owner, or
his or her agent, or by posting such notice at the site and shall also notify
the utilities serving the premises. Thereafter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to cause or permit gas or water to be supplied to the plumbing or
plumbing system so sealed until they shall have been made safe and the
Inspector shall have issued a certificate of approval to that effect.
   (b)   When the Plumbing Inspector condemns all or part of any plumbing
system, the owner may, within ten days after receiving written notice thereof,
file a petition in writing for review of the action of the Plumbing Inspector
by the governing body, upon the receipt of which the governing body shall at
once proceed to determine the facts, and within ten days from receiving the
petition make a decision in accordance with their findings.
§ 4-416 EXCAVATIONS.
   When it appears that the laying or repairing of any water or sewer pipes or
the making of any connection therewith shall require excavation in any street,
alley or public way of the city or the cutting or removal of any pavement, curb
or gutter or any sidewalk, during the course of such work, the application for
a permit shall so state and describe the location and extent of the excavation,
cutting or removal. Before the City Clerk shall issue any permit for such work,
the applicant shall pay any fee required by this code. All excavations shall be
barricaded and guarded as provided by the appropriate sections of this code.
Before any such excavation shall be backfilled, new plumbing work therein shall
be inspected and the bottom of the excavation holding any sewer, drain or water
pipe shall be so filled, leveled and tamped as to properly support the pipe and
permit proper drainage when carrying sewage, and the excavation shall be
backfilled and all paving, curbing, guttering or sidewalks shall be restored as
near as possible to their last condition, subject always to the approval of the
Plumbing Inspector or the Superintendent of Streets.
§ 4-417 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
installing plumbing piping or equipment within and upon his or her own
residence and intended for his or her personal use and permanent occupancy;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the Plumbing Inspector as to his or her
ability to install such piping or equipment, secure a permit, pay required
fees, do work in accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and
receive approval. Personal installation by an owner under this section shall be
by himself, herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence,
without compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in
any way on such work except a plumber or plumbing contractor licensed by the
city.
§ 4-418 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   (a)   No plumbing materials, appliances or equipment shall be installed in
the city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this article and
with the approved standards of construction for safety to life and property.
   (b)   Conformity of materials for plumbing materials, appliances and
equipment to the standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. shall be
prima facie evidence that the materials, devices, appliances and equipment
comply with the requirements of this article.
§ 4-419 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
performing any plumbing construction for damages to persons or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability, by reason of the inspection or re-inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval of any work or equipment authorized herein or by
reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-420 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the Uniform Plumbing Code or of this article shall be held
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the remaining
provisions of the Uniform Plumbing Code or of this article, the section is to
be completely severable from the remaining provisions which shall continue in
full force and effect.
ARTICLE 5: MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
4-501   Building Official; authority
   
4-502   Permit required
   
4-503   Same: application for permit
   
4-504   Same; bond, insurance required
   
4-505   Same; fee
   
4-506   Contractor; license required; fee
   
4-507   Route; duties of Building Official
   
4-508   Notice to owners
   
4-509   Duty of owners
   
4-510   Interfering with poles; wires
   
4-511   Display of lanterns
§ 4-501 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor or his or her authorized designee shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this article and appointment of an inspector
in accordance with §§
4-204 through
4-209, which apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-502 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move, haul or transport any house,
building, derrick or other structure of the height when loaded for movement of
16 feet or more from the surface of the highway, road, street or alley, or a
width of eight feet or more or which cannot be moved at a speed of four mph or
faster, upon, across or over any street, alley or sidewalk in the city without
first obtaining a permit therefor.
(K.S.A. 17-1914)
§ 4-503 SAME: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   All applications for permits required under the provisions of this article
shall be made in writing to the City Clerk specifying the day and hour said
moving is to commence and the route through the city’s streets over which the
house, building, derrick or other structure shall be moved and stating whether
it will be necessary to cut and move, raise or in any way interfere with any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment of any public or municipally-owned
utility and, if so, the application shall also state the name of the public or
municipally-owned utility, and the time and location that the applicant’s
moving operations shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or otherwise
interfering with such aerial facilities.
(K.S.A. 17-1915)
§ 4-504 SAME; BOND, INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of any person at the time of making application
for a permit as provided in this article to give a good and sufficient surety
bond to the city, to be approved by the governing body, indemnifying the city
against any loss or damage resulting from the failure of any such person to
comply with the provisions of this article or for any damage or injury caused
in moving any such house or structure. The bond herein shall be in the sum of
$5,000, or cash may be deposited in lieu of such surety bond.
   (b)   A public liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state, in the amount of $100,000 per person,
$300,000 per accident as to personal injury, and $50,000 property damage may be
permitted in lieu of a bond.
§ 4-505 SAME; FEE.
   Before any permit to move any house or structure is given under the
provisions of this article, the applicant shall pay a fee of not less than $30
to the City Clerk, plus the additional cost for the time for any city crews
involved in such moving.
(Ord. 4043, passed - -)
§ 4-506 CONTRACTOR; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   The provisions of §§
4-219 through
4-225 shall apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-507 ROUTE; DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The City Clerk shall, upon filing of the above application, refer the same
to the Chief Building Official or his or her authorized designee to check the
proposed route and determine if it is practical to move such house or other
structure over the route proposed. If it shall appear that such route is not
practical, and another route may be used equally well with less danger to
street and travel, then he or she may designate such other route as the one to
be used and shall notify the applicant of the same. The Building Official may
also require the planking of any street, bridge or culvert or any part thereof
to prevent damage thereto. It shall also be the duty of the Chief Building
Official or his or her authorized designee to inspect the progress of moving
any house or other structure to see that the same is being moved in accordance
with the provisions of this article.
§ 4-508 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   (a)   Upon issuance of a moving permit, the applicant shall give not less
than 15 days’ written notice to any person owning or operating any wires,
cables or other aerial equipment along the proposed route of the intent to move
the structure, giving the time and location that the applicants moving
operation shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or interfering of any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment.
   (b)   The notice provision of subsection (a) above shall not apply where the
person owning or operating any wires, cables or other aerial equipment has
waived their right to advance notice.
   (c)   Should the moving operation be delayed, the applicant shall give the
owner or his or her agent not less than 24 hours’ advance notice of the actual
operation.
(K.S.A. 17-1916)
§ 4-509 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the person or the city owning or operating
such poles or wires, after service of notice as provided herein, to furnish
competent lineman or workers to remove such poles, or raise or cut such wires
as will be necessary to facilitate the moving of such house or structure. The
necessary expense which is incurred thereby shall be paid by the holder of the
moving permit.
   (b)   The owner of any wires, cables or other aerial equipment, after
service of notice as provided in §
4-508 , shall be liable to the permit holder for damages in an amount not to
exceed $100 per day for each day the owner shall fail or refuse to accommodate
the permit holder’s moving operations.
(K.S.A. 17-1917)
§ 4-510 INTERFERING WITH POLES; WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in moving any house or other
structure to raise, cut or in any way interfere with any wires or poles bearing
wires or any other aerial equipment.
(K.S.A. 17-1918)
§ 4-511 DISPLAY OF LANTERNS.
   It shall be the duty of any person moving any of the structures mentioned in
this article upon or across any street, alley or sidewalk or other public
place, in this city, to display red lanterns thereon in such a manner as to
show the extreme height and width thereof from sunset to sunrise.
ARTICLE 6: DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
Section
   
4-601   Purpose
   
4-602   Definitions
   
4-603   Enforcing officer; duties
   
4-604   Procedure; petition
   
4-605   Same; notice
   
4-606   Same; publication
   
4-607   Same; hearing, order
   
4-608   Duty of owner
   
4-609   Same; failure to comply
   
4-610   Same; make site safe
   
4-611   Assessment of costs
   
4-612   Immediate hazard
   
4-613   Appeals from order
   
4-614   Scope of article
§ 4-601 PURPOSE.
   The governing body has found that there exists within the corporate limits
of the city structures which are unfit for human use or habitation because of
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire or accidents, structural
defects or other conditions which render such structures unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise inimical to the general welfare of the city, or conditions which
provide a general blight upon the neighborhood or surrounding properties. It is
hereby deemed necessary by the governing body to require or cause the repair,
closing or demolition or removal of such structures as provided in this
article.
(K.S.A. 12-1751)
§ 4-602 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCING OFFICER. The Building Inspector or his or her authorized
representative.
   STRUCTURE. Includes any building, wall, superstructure or other structure
which requires location on the ground, or is attached to something having a
location on the ground.
(K.S.A. 12-1750) (Ord. 3551, passed - -)
§ 4-603 ENFORCING OFFICER; DUTIES.
   The enforcing officer is hereby authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary to carry out the purposes of this article, including the following:
   (a)   Inspect any structure which appears to be unsafe, dangerous or unfit
for human habitation;
   (b)   Have authority to enter upon premises at reasonable hours for the
purpose of making such inspections. Entry shall be made so as to cause the
least possible inconvenience to any person in possession of the structure. If
entry is denied, the enforcing officer may seek an order for this purpose from
a court of competent jurisdiction;
   (c)   Report all structures which he or she believes to be dangerous, unsafe
or unfit for human habitation to the governing body; and
   (d)   Receive petitions as provided in this article.
(Ord. 3551, passed - -)
§ 4-604 PROCEDURE; PETITION.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the enforcing officer by at least five
residents charging that any structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human
habitation, or whenever it appears to the enforcing officer on his or her own
motion that any structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human habitation,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, report such findings to the governing body.
(Ord. 3551, passed - -)
§ 4-605 SAME; NOTICE.
   The governing body, upon receiving a report as provided in §
4-604 , shall by resolution fix a time and place at which the owner, the
owner’s agent, any lienholder of records and any occupant of the structure may
appear and show cause why the structure should not be condemned and ordered
repaired or demolished.
(K.S.A. 12-1752) (Ord. 3551, passed - -)
§ 4-606 SAME; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   The resolution shall be published once each week for two consecutive
weeks on the same day of each week. At least 30 days shall elapse between the
last publication and the date set for the hearing.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be mailed by certified mail within
three days after its first publication to each owner, agent, lienholder and
occupant at the last known place of residence and shall be marked “deliver to
addressee only”.
(K.S.A. 12-1752) (Ord. 3551, passed - -)
§ 4-607 SAME; HEARING, ORDER.
   If, after notice and hearing, the governing body determines that the
structure under consideration is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human use or
habitation, it shall state in writing its findings of fact in support of such
determination and shall cause the resolution to be published once in the
official city newspaper and a copy mailed to the owners, agents, lienholders of
record and occupants in the same manner provided for the notice of hearing. The
resolution shall fix a reasonable time within which the repair or removal of
such structure shall be commenced and a statement that if the owner of such
structure fails to commence the repair or removal of such structure within the
time stated or fails to diligently prosecute the same until the work is
completed, the governing body will cause the structure to be razed and removed.
(Ord. 3551, passed - -)
§ 4-608 DUTY OF OWNER.
   Whenever any structure within the city shall be found to be dangerous,
unsafe or unfit for human use or habitation, it shall be the duty and
obligation of the owner of the property to render the same secure and safe, or
to remove the same.
(Ord. 3551, passed - -)
§ 4-609 SAME; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (a)   If, within the time specified in the order, the owner fails to comply
with the order to repair, alter, improve or vacate the structure, the enforcing
officer may cause the structure to be repaired, altered, improved or to be
vacated and closed.
   (b)   If, within the time specified in the order, the owner fails to comply
with the order to remove or demolish the structure, the enforcing officer may
cause the structure to be removed and demolished.
(Ord. 3551, passed - -)
§ 4-610 SAME; MAKE SITE SAFE.
   Upon removal of any structure, the owner shall fill any basement or other
excavation located upon the premises and take any other action necessary to
leave the premises in a safe condition. If the owner fails to take such action,
the enforcing officer may proceed to make the site safe.
(Ord. 3551, passed - -)
§ 4-611 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (a)   The cost to the city of any repairs, alterations, improvements,
vacating, removal or demolition by the enforcing officer, including making the
site safe, shall be reported to the City Clerk.
   (b)   The city shall give notice to the owner of the structure by restricted
mail of the cost of removing the structure and making the premises safe and
secure. The notice shall also state that payment of the cost is due and payable
within 30 days following receipt of the notice.
   (c)   If the costs remain unpaid after 30 days following receipt of notice,
the City Clerk may sell any salvage from the structure and apply the proceeds
or any necessary portion thereof to pay the cost of removing the structure and
making the site safe. Any proceeds in excess of that required to recover the
costs shall be paid to the owner of the premises upon which the structure was
located.
   (d)   If the proceeds of the sale of salvage or from the proceeds of any
insurance policy in which the city has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-
3901 et seq., and amendments thereto, are insufficient to recover the above
stated costs, or if there is no salvage, the balance shall be collected in the
manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or shall be
assessed as special assessments against the lot or parcel of land on which the
structure was located and the City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city
taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs to the County Clerk and
who shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against such lot or
parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer and paid to
the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may pursue
collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner provided by
K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full cost and
applicable interest has been paid in full.
   (e)   If there is no salvage material, or if the monies received from the
sale of salvage or from the proceeds of any insurance policy in which the city
has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., and amendments thereto,
are insufficient to pay the costs of the work and the costs of providing
notice, such costs or any portion thereof in excess of that received from the
sale of salvage or any insurance proceeds may be financed, until the costs are
paid, out of the General Fund or by the issuance of no-fund warrants.
(K.S.A. 12-1755) (Ord. 3551, passed - -)
§ 4-612 IMMEDIATE HAZARD.
   When, in the opinion of the governing body, any structure is in such
condition as to constitute an immediate hazard requiring immediate action to
protect the public, the governing body may direct the enforcing officer to
erect barricades or cause the property to be vacated, taken down, repaired,
shored or otherwise made safe without delay. Such action may be taken without
prior notice to or hearing of the owners, agents, lienholders and occupants.
The cost of any action under this section shall be assessed against the
property as provided in §
4-611 .
(K.S.A. 12-1756) (Ord. 3551, passed - -)
§ 4-613 APPEALS FROM ORDER.
   Any person affected by an order issued by the governing body under this
article may, within 30 days following service of the order, petition the
District Court of the county in which the structure is located for an
injunction restraining the enforcing officer from carrying out the provisions
of the order pending final disposition of the case.
(Ord. 3551, passed - -)
§ 4-614 SCOPE OF ARTICLE.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
charter or its ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or punish violations
thereof; and the powers conferred by this article shall be in addition to and
supplemental to the powers conferred by the Constitution, any other law or
ordinance. Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair or limit in any
way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause their
removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise or to exercise those
powers granted specifically by K.S.A. 12-1750 to 12-1756.
(Ord. 3551, passed - -)
ARTICLE 7: NUMBERING BUILDINGS
Section
   
4-701   All houses numbered
   
4-702   Odd and even numbers
   
4-703   Numbering; commencement
   
4-704   Numbering; N, S, E or W designated
   
4-705   Numbered every 25 feet
   
4-706   Owner; duty to affix number
   
4-707   City may number
§ 4-701 ALL HOUSES NUMBERED.
   All houses and buildings fronting on any street and avenue shall be numbered
in accordance with the provisions of this article.
§ 4-702 ODD AND EVEN NUMBERS.
   Odd numbers shall be given to houses on the west and south sides of streets
and avenues, and even numbers to houses on the east and north sides of streets
and avenues.
§ 4-703 NUMBERING; COMMENCEMENT.
   (a)   On streets and avenues running north and south, numbering shall
commence with 100 at the northeast and southeast corner of each and every
street at its intersection with First Street, and shall increase north and
south at the rate of 100 numbers for each block or space between two streets or
avenues.
   (b)   Streets and avenues running east and west in the city shall commence
with the number 100 at the northeast and northwest corner of each and every
street at its intersection with Main Street, and increase east and west from
Main Street at the rate of 100 numbers for each block or space between two
streets or avenues.
§ 4-704 NUMBERING; N, S, E OR W DESIGNATED.
   All streets running north of First Street shall be designated by the prefix
“N.” and all streets running south of First Street shall be designated by the
prefix “S.” and that all streets running east of Main Street shall be
designated by the prefix “E.” and that all streets running west of Main Street
shall be designated by the prefix “W.”
§ 4-705 NUMBERED EVERY 25 FEET.
   All blocks shall be laid out in spaces of 25 feet along the front or
building line of each street and each space shall be numbered as provided in
this article.
§ 4-706 OWNER; DUTY TO AFFIX NUMBER.
   The owner or occupant of each and every house or building fronting on any
street shall place on the house or building in a conspicuous place, a proper
number in letters and figures of at least two inches in height, showing the
location as herein provided.
§ 4-707 CITY MAY NUMBER.
   If the owner or occupant of any house or building fronting on any of the
streets of the city after the expiration of 30 days from the passage of this
article shall have failed to comply with the provisions of this article in
causing the houses or buildings to be properly numbered, the city may cause the
same to be properly numbered and charge and collect the cost of the same as
other city taxes are collected.
ARTICLE 8: OIL AND GAS WELLS
Section
   
4-801   “Well” defined
   
4-802   Drilling permit; required
   
4-803   Drilling permit; limited
   
4-804   Same; filing application with City Clerk; deposit
   
4-805   Same; action on application by City Council; hearings
   
4-806   Same; issuance; conditions generally
   
4-807   Drilling permit; grounds for refusal of permit
   
4-808   Same; information and evidence to be submitted as condition for
granting permit
   
4-809   Drilling permit; time limit
   
4-810   Same; non-assignable
   
4-811   Surety bond required
   
4-812   Indemnity or casualty insurance required
   
4-813   Specific drilling and production regulations
   
4-814   Additional requirements by the City Council
   
4-815   Oil leases; royalties
   
4-816   Licenses
   
4-817   Revocation of permits, licenses or other authorizations
   
4-818   Notices required to be given
   
4-819   Use of abandoned well
   
4-820   Orders to stop work, etc.
   
4-821   Same; appeals
   
4-822   Streets
   
4-823   Limitation of permit
§ 4-801 “WELL” DEFINED.
   A WELL or WELLS, for the purpose of this article, shall mean any well
drilled, or to be drilled, or used, for the production of petroleum, natural
gas or the disposal of waste liquids produced therefrom.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-802 DRILLING PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drill or commence to drill a well for
oil or gas within the city or to work upon or to assist in any way in the
prosecution of any such well, without a permit for such well, and for the
prosecution of the development having first been issued by the governing body
in accordance with the terms of this article.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-803 DRILLING PERMIT; LIMITED.
   (a)   Within the city and at any place where otherwise lawful there shall be
only one permit issued for one well in each block; except that, were more than
one producing oil or gas and shall be found in such block a permit may be
granted for one well to each of such sands in each block and, that with such
exception, it shall be unlawful to drill more than one oil or gas well in a
block, and for the purpose of this article that part of the space of ground
known as Survey “O” of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of
Section 34, Township 25 South, Range 10 East of the Sixth Principal Meridian
being in the corporate limits in the northwest part of the city shall be
divided into blocks as follows:
      (1)   Block 1: commencing at a point where the middle line of 12th Street
extended to the west joins with the west side of Walnut Street, thence west to
the middle line of Sycamore Street extended to the north, thence, north to the
south side of 13th Street, thence east to the west side of Walnut Street,
thence south to point of beginning;
      (2)   Block 2: commencing at the southwest corner of the Block 1, thence
west to the middle line of Pine Street extended to the north, thence north to
the south side of 13th Street, thence east to the northwest corner of Block 1,
thence south to the place of beginning;
      (3)   Block 3: commencing at the southwest corner of Block 2, thence west
to the east side of Poplar Street, thence north to the south side of 13th
Street, thence east to the northwest corner of Block 2, thence south to the
place of beginning;
      (4)   Block 4: commencing at the southwest corner of Block 3, thence
south to a point where the middle line of 11th Street extended to the west
joins with the east side of Poplar Street, thence east to the middle line of
Pine Street extended to the north, thence north to the southeast corner of
Block 3, thence west to the place of beginning;
      (5)   Block 5: commencing at the northeast corner of Block 4, thence
south to the southeast corner of Block 4, thence east to the middle line of
Sycamore Street extended to the north, thence north to the southeast corner of
Block 2, thence west to place of beginning;
      (6)   Block 6: commencing at the northeast corner of Block 5, thence
south to the southeast corner of Block 5, thence east to the west side of
Walnut Street, thence north to the southeast corner of Block 1, thence west to
place of beginning;
      (7)   Block 7: commencing at the southeast corner of Block 6, thence west
to the southwest corner of Block 6, thence south to the north side of 10th
Street, thence east to the east side of Walnut Street, thence north to the
place of beginning;
      (8)   Block 8: commencing at the northwest corner of Block 7, thence west
to the southwest corner of Block 5, thence south to the north side of 10th
Street, thence east to the southwest corner of Block 7, thence north to the
place of beginning; and
      (9)   Block 9: commencing at the northwest corner of Block 8, thence west
to the southwest corner of Block 4, thence south to the north side of 10th
Street, thence east to the southwest corner of Block 8, thence north to the
place of beginning.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, Block Two of Collins’ Addition to the
city shall be divided into blocks as follows:
      (1)   Block 1: shall consist of Lots 1 to 10, inclusive, and Lots 27 to
30, inclusive, of Block Two of Collins’ Addition; and
      (2)   Block 2: shall consist of Lots 11 to 26, inclusive, of Block Two of
Collins’ Addition.
   (c)   For the purpose of this article, the space of ground lying west of
Poplar Street and south of 3rd Street within the corporate limits of the city
shall be divided into blocks as follows:
      (1)   Block 1: commencing at the southwest corner of the intersection of
Poplar Street and 3rd Street, thence west 400 feet, thence south 300 feet,
thence east 400 feet, thence north 300 feet to the place of beginning; and
      (2)   Block 2: commencing 300 feet south and 400 feet west of the
southwest corner of the intersection of Poplar Street and 3rd Street, thence
west to the right-of-way of the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company, thence
northeasterly along the east side of the right-of-way to the south side of 3rd
Street, thence east to a point 400 feet west of the southwest corner of the
intersection of Poplar Street and 3rd Street, thence south to the place of
beginning.
   (d)   Whenever there appears areas of land within the corporate limits of
the city not platted into blocks and not otherwise provided for herein, the
City Council shall, from time to time as drilling requirements develop, in
connection with a map or plat of any such areas where the drilling of wells may
be lawful, determine and establish blocks for the drilling of wells. Where
practicable, in so doing, the board shall establish blocks reasonably
consistent in size with blocks in the immediate vicinity of such area.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-804 SAME; FILING APPLICATION WITH CITY CLERK; DEPOSIT.
   The applicant for a permit as provided for herein shall file with the City
Clerk an application in writing conforming to the further provisions of this
article, and shall at such time deposit with the City Clerk a fee of $500,
which shall, upon the granting of the permit, be paid into the city treasury to
the credit of the General Operating Fund; provided, that in the event such
permit is not granted, $100 of such fee shall be retained by the city as an
application fee and credited to the above fund and the balance shall be
refunded to the applicant.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-805 SAME; ACTION ON APPLICATION BY CITY COUNCIL; HEARINGS.
   The application for a permit to drill a gas or oil well shall be submitted
to the City Council by the City Clerk at any regular or special meeting thereof
within not to exceed 30 days after filing. Prior to such submission, the City
Clerk shall publish notice in the official city paper of the time and place of
the hearing of the application. Any such hearing may be adjourned by such Board
from time to time until completed without any new or additional published
notice.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-806 SAME; ISSUANCE; CONDITIONS GENERALLY.
   The City Council shall, upon determination that the application for a gas or
oil well drilling permit conforms to the conditions of this article, authorize
the issuance of a permit granting authority to drill the proposed well. Such
permit shall be conditioned to conform to the approval of the City Council;
provided, that upon the completion of the well, the permittee shall file a
completion report with the City Clerk showing the drilled depth of the well,
the depth of the surface casing and the producing horizon being developed.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-807 DRILLING PERMIT; GROUNDS FOR REFUSAL OF PERMIT.
   The City Council shall have the power and reserves the authority to refuse
any application for a permit whereby reason of the proposed application for the
proposed well, and character and value of the permanent improvements already
erected on the block applied for or adjacent thereto, and the uses to which the
land and surroundings are adopted for civic purposes or for sanitary reasons,
the drilling of any oil or gas well will be a serious disadvantage to the city
and its inhabitants as a whole.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-808 SAME; INFORMATION AND EVIDENCE TO BE SUBMITTED AS CONDITION FOR
GRANTING PERMIT.
   The applicant for any permit to drill a gas or oil well in the city shall
submit the following information and evidence as a condition for the granting
of a permit hereunder:
   (a)   Satisfactory evidence that all owners of record of mineral interests
or oil and gas leasehold interests in the block or area included within the
application, where it is proposed to drill a well, have had an opportunity to
join in the execution of the oil and gas lease of the applicant covering the
land included in such area, and that such owners of mineral interests or oil
and gas leasehold interests have been notified in writing that the applicants
proposed to seek a permit for the drilling of a well on the block described in
such notice. In the event that such owners cannot with reasonable diligence be
located, then affidavits setting forth the facts thereof may be substituted for
the required proof of written notice;
   (b)   That the applicant has a valid oil and gas lease executed by persons
owning at least 51 percent of the mineral interest included in the block or
area attributed thereto, exclusive of streets and alleys, subject, however, to
the provisions for the zoning ordinances relating to drilling of wells;
   (c)   Statements that the lease provide or is accompanied by an agreement in
writing providing substantially as follows: that a royalty of at least one-
eighth of the gross production of the well shall be distributed to the
respective owners of the mineral rights within the block pro rata; and that any
owner, lessee, assigns or successors whose land shall not be under lease to the
permittee, and shall be located within the block, shall have the right within
ten days after the granting and publication of notice of a permit for the
drilling of any well to post with the City Clerk a good and sufficient
corporate surety bond, ora personal bond acceptable to the permittee, to
guarantee payment of his, her or their proportionate share of the cost of the
drilling and operation for the proposed well and be thereby entitled to
participate in the entire working interest in the well after payment of or her
share of expenses in the proportion that the mineral interests in the block
owned or leased by him or her bears to the total mineral interest contained in
the block;
   (d)   A map or plat of the area covered by the oil and gas lease, showing
the proposed location of each well, together with the written consent of the
owner of the land, on which the well is proposed to be located, to the drilling
of the well on the land, which map or plat shall also show the location of all
residences, buildings and other structures within 150 feet of such proposed
location;
   (e)   Agreements or statements showing reasonable and adequate plans for the
handling and disposal of all drilling fluids, basic sediment, brines and other
deleterious substances and wastes that may be produced in connection with the
drilling and operation of the proposed well;
   (f)   Plans and drawings showing the facilities for the handling or storing
of production of the proposed well;
   (g)   Statements of agreements that in the event the well is either
nonproductive or abandoned, within 60 days after the determination thereof,
that all tools, equipment and machinery used in connection with the drilling of
the well shall be removed, and that the premises shall be fully restored to
their original condition as soon as practicable and in no case more than 60
days after such determination; and
   (h)   Statements of agreement that if such well is productive, only the
tools, machinery, structures and equipment necessary for the operation thereof
shall be maintained at such well and that the premiss surrounding the same
shall be restored to their original condition as nearly as practicable and
within 60 days after completion of the well.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-809 DRILLING PERMIT; TIME LIMIT.
   (a)   No permit shall be granted or issued for the drilling of a well,
except upon ground held by the applicant under oil and gas lease or drilling
contract from the owner, giving the owner’s permission to drill the well; and
when a permit shall have been issued the same shall terminate and become
inoperative without any action on the part of the governing body of the city
unless waiting 30 days from the date of issue, actual drilling operations of
the well shall have commenced. The cessation for a like period of the drilling
operations, or the cessation of production of oil or gas from the well, except
for temporary, shutdown for repairs, shall operate to terminate and cancel the
permit, and the well shall be considered as abandoned for all purposes of this
article and it shall be unlawful thereafter to continue the operation or
drilling of such well without the issuance of another permit.
   (b)   No permit which shall be issued under this article nor any rights,
privileges or franchise granted hereby or hereunder shall exist longer than for
a period of 20 years from the date of issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-810 SAME; NON-ASSIGNABLE.
   No permit, authorized by this article, shall be assignable or assigned
without the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-811 SURETY BOND REQUIRED.
   The applicant shall at the time of filing an application for gas or oil well
permit submit for approval to the City Council a corporate surety bond executed
by some bonding or surety company authorized to do business in the state in the
amount of $50,000 running to the city for the benefit of the city, and all
persons concerned conditioned that if the permit be granted the applicant and
his, her or its assigns will comply with the terms and conditions of this
article in the drilling and operation of the well and will pay to the city and
to any owners of land in the block in which the applicant shall not hold oil
and gas leases or contracts the oil and gas royalties as herein provided, that
the applicant will restore the streets and sidewalks and other public places of
the city which may be disturbed in the operations to their former condition,
will clear the blocks and lots of all litter, machinery, derricks, buildings,
oil and other substance erected, used or allowed in the drilling or producing
operations whenever the well shall be abandoned or the operation therefor
discontinued, and that it will pay all damages suffered by the city or the
inhabitants of the city or to property therein by fire, or from oil, gas or
water caused by or originated from the operations connected with such well, and
will hold the city harmless for any and all liability growing out of the
granting of such permit. All such bonds shall be renewed immediately prior to
their termination and shall remain in force and be binding upon the principal
and surety, unless canceled by giving 30 days’ notice in writing to the City
Clerk. Upon the expiration of any such bonds or the giving of notice by the
surety as provided herein a new bond shall be filed immediately by the
principal in the same amount as the original bond and in the event the
principal shall fail to secure and file with the City Clerk such a bond the
permit provided for herein shall automatically terminate and all production
from and operations of the well shall automatically cease.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-812 INDEMNITY OR CASUALTY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The applicant for gas or oil well permit shall submit a policy of indemnity
or casualty insurance, issued by some responsible insurance company authorized
to do business in this state, and naming the city as co-insured, insuring
against injuries, loss or damage for which the applicant may be liable as the
result of the drilling, operation or maintenance of any well or any structure
or machinery appurtenant thereto. Such insurance coverage shall be in the
minimum amount of $500,000 single limit bodily injury or property damage. The
policy shall also contain a rider that provides that all terms and conditions
of the policy insofar as liability to third parties is concerned shall extend
to the city even though the city is named as an additional insured. A copy or
certificate of the policy shall be deposited with the City Clerk together with
a certificate by the insurance company that such insurance is in force and
shall not be canceled without 30 days’ written notice thereof to the city. Such
insurance shall be renewed immediately prior to the end of the term thereof and
shall be maintained during the entire period of drilling or operation of a
well. Failure to maintain such insurance shall result in the automatic
rescission of the rights granted under the permit provided for herein.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-813 SPECIFIC DRILLING AND PRODUCTION REGULATIONS.
   The issuance and continued validity of a permit and the authorization for
the drilling or operation of a well, authorized thereby, shall be conditioned
upon compliance by the permittee with the following rules and regulations and
any departure therefrom shall constitute a violation of this article.
   (a)   The surface pipe must be run and set at least 300 feet into the
ground.
   (b)   The surface pipe must be solidly cemented from top to bottom on the
outside of the pipe.
   (c)   Adequate precautions shall be taken and necessary well head safety
devices be used at all times during the drilling and completion of the well;
and all drill stem tests shall be reverse circulated to confine fluids to pits
in accordance with the most acceptable practices.
   (d)   Locations and equipment shall at ail times during drilling operations
be fenced by either a temporary portable type snow fencing at least four feet
high or other fencing equally acceptable.
   (e)   Upon completion of a well the pumping unit, tank battery, switch box
and other permanent production equipment shall be enclosed within a chain or
wire mesh fence six feet in height supported by steel posts set in concrete to
depth of at least 18 inches; and on top of such fence there shall be placed and
maintained a protruding extension of three barb wires, the lowest of which
shall be at least seven feet above ground, extended on bars at an angle of 45
degrees to the outside, and all gates forming apart of such fence shall be kept
closed and locked at all times, except when in active use by the operator.
   (f)   All slush ponds and pits shall at all times be enclosed by a fence at
least four feet high and shall be filled or the ground re-leveled within 90
days after commencement of digging of the ponds or pits.
   (g)   All water produced from any well shall be disposed of underground in
accordance with regulations of the Kansas Corporation Commission or the State
Board of Health.
   (h)   At no time shall fluids of any kind be stored in earthen pits.
   (i)   All pumping units must be electrically driven and equipped with belt
safety guards.
   (j)   All production equipment, structures and premises shall at all times
be maintained and kept in a clean, sanitary and tidy condition.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-814 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   At the time of granting any permit, under the provisions of this article,
the City Council may make requirements, in addition to those contained therein,
as may be reasonably necessary for protection of persons and property in the
city.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-815 OIL LEASES; ROYALTIES.
   In case a permit for the drilling of a well be issued to a person not
holding oil and gas mining leases or drilling contracts with the owners of all
the area in the block; it shall be a condition of the permit that the
permittee, his, her or its successors or assigns, shall deliver to the credit
of each of such owners whose land shall not be under lease to the permittee,
free of cost in the pipe line or loading rack to which the well may be
connected, a share of all the oil produced, saved and marketed from such well
equal to one-eighth of the proportion of the whole production from such well
that the square feet of ground so owned and un-leased in the block bears to the
square feet in the blocks exclusive of streets and alleys, and a like
proportion of the proceeds of gas and casing head gas produced from the well
and used off the premises.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-816 LICENSES.
   (a)   (1)   A license fee is hereby levied upon the owner or operator of
every completed and operated well in the corporate limits in the following
amounts:
         (A)   Producing petroleum or gas wells: $150; and
         (B)   Salt water disposal wells: $75.
      (2)   Such fees shall be paid to the City Clerk within not more than 20
days after completion of any well. The City Clerk shall thereupon issue a
license which shall be valid for a period of 12 calendar months from and after
completion date of such well. The license shall not be transferable nor
prorated for any unused period, the fees so paid shall be deposited in the city
treasury to the credit of the General Operating Fund.
   (b)   The license herein required shall be renewed annually and the fee
therefor paid at 12-month intervals from the date of the first license and
until the operation of any well so licensed shall be discontinued, the well
abandoned and the premises cleared as provided herein.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-817 REVOCATION OF PERMITS, LICENSES OR OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.
   Upon any substantial violation of the conditions of any permit, license,
authorization or of any provisions of this article, the City Council may, upon
a hearing after five days’ written notice by mail or personal service, to the
person committing such violation, or if the address of the permittee or
licensee is unknown and he or she cannot be found in the city, after the
expiration of five days from the date of publication of notice of any such
hearing in a newspaper authorized to publish legal notices in the city, revoke
such permit, license or authorization; provided, however, that if, in the
judgment of the City Council, restitution is made for any damage occasioned by
such violation together with adequate provisions to prevent any further
violations by such permittee or licensee, the City Council may waive revocation
of any permit or license.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-818 NOTICES REQUIRED TO BE GIVEN.
   It shall be the duty of every permittee or licensee, as the case may be, to
give the City Clerk notice of the commencement of any drilling of a well, the
setting and cementing of the surface casing of any well and of the beginning of
other stages of the drilling or operation or abandonment of any well, as may be
required by regulations to be approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-819 USE OF ABANDONED WELL.
   All abandoned wells, which shall not be used and equipped for disposal
purposes, shall be filled and plugged in accordance with applicable rules of
the agencies of the state having jurisdiction thereof.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-820 ORDERS TO STOP WORK, ETC.
   The inspector designated by the City Council to assist in enforcement of
this article shall be authorized to order any work stopped or corrected which
shall not conform to the conditions required by this article. A copy of such
order shall be filed with the well permit and preserved as a permanent record
open to public inspection. The date of completion or abandonment of any well
and pertinent information shall be entered on record.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-821 SAME; APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any inspection order to stop or correct any work
may, within ten days from the decision of such inspector, file an appeal in
writing with the City Clerk to be submitted to the City Council at its next
meeting for a hearing and a determination thereof. The decision of the City
Council shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-822 STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to drill any oil or gas well within any of the streets
or alleys of the city or to block or encumber or close up any streets or alley
in any drilling or production operations, except by special permit by order of
the governing body and then only temporarily.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
§ 4-823 LIMITATION OF PERMIT.
   Neither this article or any permit issued hereunder shall be interpreted to
grant any right or license to the permittee to enter upon or occupy in any
respect in the drilling or production operations any land, except by the
written consent of the owner; nor shall it limit or prevent the free right of
any lot owner to contract for the amount of royalty to be paid with respect to
his or her own land or for damage, rights or privileges with respect thereto.
(Ord. 3030, passed - -)
CHAPTER V: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
      
2.   SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS
      
3.   GARAGE SALES
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
Section
   
5-101   Application for license
   
5-102   Not assignable or transferable
   
5-103   License period; duration
   
5-104   Exemption of farmers
   
5-105   License fees
   
5-106   Same; when payable; time period
   
5-107   Payment of fees; receipt
   
5-108   Contents of license
   
5-109   Record
   
5-110   Special sales
   
5-111   Non-profit organizations
   
5-112   Location and size
   
5-113   Leasing of property
Editor’s note:
This chapter was modified by Ord. 4177, passed 12-23-2013, by repealing several
sections and renumbering the remaining sections.
§ 5-101 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (a)   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to do business in the city
shall apply to the City Clerk for a license to operate such business, and in
the case of new licenses, shall appear before the governing body before the
commencement of business and issuance of the license.
   (b)   Upon approval by the governing body, the City Clerk shall issue to the
applicant a license that shall be signed by the City Clerk.
   (c)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to pay over the amount so
collected on each license issued to the City Treasurer of the city.
§ 5-102 NOT ASSIGNABLE OR TRANSFERABLE.
   No license granted by the city shall be assignable or transferable; nor
shall such license authorize any person to do business or act under it but the
person named therein, nor at more than one place. There shall be no refunds
except as specifically provided.
§ 5-103 LICENSE PERIOD; DURATION.
   Unless otherwise provided, licenses shall commence and endure from January 1
and expire on December 31 of the same year, except that all semi-annual
licenses issued as provided in this chapter shall expire on June 30 or December
31, next following the date of their issuance.
§ 5-104 EXEMPTION OF FARMERS.
   No producer or grower, or his or her agents or employees, selling in the
city, farm or garden products or fruits grown by him or her in the state shall
be required to pay any license fee or occupation tax imposed by any law of this
city, and he or she, his or her agents or employees, are hereby exempt from the
payment of any such fees or taxes, or the securing of a license.
(K.S.A. 12-1617)
§ 5-105 LICENSE FEES.
   Unless otherwise provided, the annual license fee for each occupation,
business or profession shall be as shown in the schedule on file in the City
Clerk’s office.
§ 5-106 SAME; WHEN PAYABLE; TIME PERIOD.
   (a)   All license fees shall be due and payable before the commencement of a
trade, occupation, business or profession in which license fees are required.
   (b)   No license shall be issued until the fee is paid.
   (c)   Licenses shall be renewed on or before the expiration date of the
current licenses.
   (d)   If the license prescribed is for an annual, quarterly, monthly, weekly
or daily period, the license shall not be issued for any part or fraction of
the year, quarter, month, week or day, respectively.
   (e)   The license for a day shall expire at midnight.
§ 5-107 PAYMENT OF FEES; RECEIPT.
   The City Clerk shall, upon payment of any license fee specified, give a
receipt therefor stating the amount paid, the nature of the licenses issued,
for what time, and to whom issued, and if possible, the exact location where
the business is to be carried on, and the kind of business.
§ 5-108 CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise provided, all licenses shall be dated on the date of their
issue, and shall state the name of the licensee, the kind of business he or she
desires to engage in and the location thereof, the amount paid, and time the
license shall expire; and the person having such license shall be authorized to
carry on the business therein named.
§ 5-109 RECORD.
   The City Clerk shall keep a record of the name of each person licensed, his
or her address, the date of the license, the purpose in which it is granted,
the amount paid therefor, and the time the same shall expire and within 24
hours after any license has expired, the City Clerk shall notify the Chief of
Police of such expiration, unless the same shall have been renewed.
§ 5-110 SPECIAL SALES.
   The City Council may from time to time by resolution establish special sales
promotion days and when the days have been so established and declared, then
city merchants and store operators shall be permitted to locate stands, tables,
racks or other devices for the sale and display of merchandise, goods, wares or
edible products upon the public sidewalk immediately adjacent to and abutting
his or her business.
(Ord. 2939, passed - -)
§ 5-111 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   In addition to the right of the city merchant or store operator to sell and
display merchandise above described on special sale days, each merchant and
operator shall also have the right to permit non-profit organizations to
display and sell merchandise, goods, wares or edible products on the sidewalk
immediately adjacent to and abutting his or her business.
(Ord. 2939, passed - -)
§ 5-112 LOCATION AND SIZE.
   On special sale days, as herein provided, the location of stands, tables,
racks or other devices shall be made in order that no more than one-half of the
sidewalk area from front to back is occupied by the display devices and in no
event shall the unobstructed sidewalk area be less than four feet in width.
(Ord. 2939, passed - -)
§ 5-113 LEASING OF PROPERTY.
   This section shall not apply to the leasing of property owned by the city at
such rates, times and purposes as may from time to time be authorized by the
City Council.
(Ord. 2939, passed - -)
ARTICLE 2: SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS
Section
   
5-201   Definitions
   
5-202   License required
   
5-203   Same; application required
   
5-204   Issuance; county residents
   
5-205   Same; investigation and issuance; non-county resident
   
5-206   Same; investigation fee
   
5-207   License fee; time limits; exemptions
   
5-208   Renewal
   
5-209   Denial, revocation or suspension of license; notice
   
5-210   Appeal to governing body
   
5-211   Regulations
   
5-212   Use of streets and sidewalks
   
5-213   Disturbing the peace
§ 5-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether a resident of the city or
not, whose business is mainly or principally carried on by traveling either by
foot, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to
place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or attempting to
take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any
nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or
performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes
for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he or she is
collecting advance payments on such sales or not. Such definition shall include
any person, who, for himself, herself or for another person, hires, leases,
uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel
room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the city for the
sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by
foot, automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden
truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling
from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon,
automotive vehicle, railroad boxcar or other vehicle or conveyance, and further
provided, that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes
deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this article shall be deemed a peddler.
   RESIDENCE. Includes every separate living unit occupied for residential
purposes by one or more persons contained within any type of building or
structure.
   SOLICITING. Includes any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services, of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character; or
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication.
   STREET SALESPERSON. Any person engaged in any manner in selling merchandise
of any kind from a vehicle or stand temporarily located on the public streets
or sidewalks of this city.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR.
      (1)   Any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether
a resident of the city or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling
and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within such city, and who, in
furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar or boat, public room in hotels,
lodging houses, apartments, shops or any street, alley or other place within
the city, for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise,
either privately or at public auction.
      (2)   Such definition shall not be construed to include any person who,
while occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock, but exhibits
samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery only. The
person so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the provisions of
this article merely by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient business in
connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer, trader,
merchant or auctioneer.
§ 5-202 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the activities
defined in the preceding sections of this article, within the corporate limits
of the city without then having an unrevoked and unexpired license therefor in
his or her possession and issued by the City Clerk.
   (b)   The governing body may waive the license requirements of this section
for any person, firm or corporation exempt from the payment of a license fee
under §
5-207 .
§ 5-203 SAME; APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Before the City Clerk may issue any license required by this article, he or
she shall require a sworn application in writing prepared in duplicate on a
form to be supplied by the City Clerk that shall give the following
information:
   (a)   Name and description of applicant;
   (b)   Permanent home address and full local address of applicant;
   (c)   Identification of applicant including driver’s license number, date of
birth, expiration date of license, and description of applicant;
   (d)   Identification of vehicle used by applicant including license therefor
used by applicant in conducting his or her business;
   (e)   A brief description of the nature of the business to be carried on or
the goods to be sold and the length of time such applicant has been engaged in
the business;
   (f)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing such relationship, including the authority by the
employer authorizing the applicant to represent the employer in conducting
business;
   (g)   The length of time that business is proposed to be carried on;
   (h)   The place where services are to be performed or where the goods or
property proposed to be sold or orders taken for the sale thereof are
manufactured or produced, where such goods or products are located at the time
the application is filed, and the proposed method of delivery;
   (i)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 90 days prior to the date
of making application which picture shall be at least two inches by two inches
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing
manner; or in lieu thereof, the fingerprints of the applicant may be taken by
the Chief of Police and filed with the application;
   (j)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has within two years
prior to the date of the application been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor
(other than minor traffic violations), or violation of any municipal law
regulating peddlers, solicitors or canvassers and giving the nature of the
offenses, the punishment assessed therefor, if any, and the city and state
where conviction occurred; and
   (k)   The applicant’s state sales tax number.
§ 5-204 ISSUANCE; COUNTY RESIDENTS.
   (a)   Except as provided in §
5-209 , if the applicant is a current resident of the county, upon receipt of
an application for a license and payment of the license fee, the City Clerk
shall issue the license. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of
the issuing officer and shall show the name and address of the licensee, the
date of issuance, and length of time the license shall be operative, and the
nature of the business involved. The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record
of all such licenses issued and submit a copy of such license to the Chief of
Police. The licensee shall carry the license certificate at all times.
   (b)   If the applicant is not a current resident of the county, a license
will not be issued until after investigation and payment of the investigation
fee as provided in §§
5-205 and
5-206.
§ 5-205 SAME; INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE; NON-COUNTY RESIDENT.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the above application from an applicant who is not a
current resident of the county, the City Clerk shall refer the same to the
Chief of Police who shall cause an investigation of the facts stated therein to
be made within not to exceed five days.
   (b)   If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory or the facts stated
therein to be untrue, the Chief of Police shall endorse on such application his
or her findings and endorse his or her disapproval of the application and the
reasons for the same and shall return the application to the City Clerk who
then shall notify the applicant that his or her application is disapproved and
that no license will be issued.
   (c)   (1)   If, however, the investigation of such application discloses
that the character and business responsibility and the facts stated in the
application are satisfactory and true, the Chief of Police shall endorse his or
her findings and approval on the application and return the same to the City
Clerk who shall, upon payment of the license and investigation fees prescribed,
issue a license to the applicant to engage in the business described in the
application.
      (2)   Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing
officer and shall show the name and address of the licensee, the date of
issuance and length of time the license shall be operative, and the nature of
the business involved. The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all such
licenses issued and submit a copy of such license to the Chief of Police. The
licensee shall carry the license certificate at all times.
§ 5-206 SAME; INVESTIGATION FEE.
   At the time of filing the application, a fee of $25 shall be paid to the
City Clerk to cover the cost of investigation of the facts stated in the
foregoing application.
(Ord. 4174, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 4322, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 5-207 LICENSE FEE; TIME LIMITS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (c) below, the fee for the license
required pursuant to §
5-202 shall be in the amount of $25 per each day, or portion thereof, that the
licensee shall operate within the city limits.
   (b)   Any such license granted upon application as required herein above
shall be limited to and effective only on the days set out in the license.
Solicitation or sales by any peddler, solicitor or canvasser shall be conducted
only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (c)   Persons and firms not having a permanently established place of
business in the city, but having a permanently established house-to-house or
wholesale business, shall receive a license as required by § 5-202 upon the
payment of $200 of any year and may make solicitations or sales only between
the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., or upon invitation at any hour.
(K.S.A. 12-1617) (Ord. 4174, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 4322, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 5-208 RENEWAL.
   All licenses issued shall be subject to renewal upon a showing of compliance
with §§
5-202 and
5-203 within a six-month-period prior to the renewal date. The City Clerk need
not require an additional application under §
5-203 or an additional investigation and investigation fee under §§
5-205 and
5-206 unless complaints have been received of violations of the conditions in
which any license has heretofore been issued. The City Clerk shall not renew or
extend any license if there is satisfactory evidence of any grounds for the
suspension or revocation of any prior license, and the applicant shall be
required to apply for a license as in the case of an original license.
§ 5-209 DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; NOTICE.
   The City Clerk or Chief of Police may deny any application or may revoke or
suspend for a period of not to exceed 30 days any license issued under this
article, for any of the following causes:
   (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   (b)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business;
   (c)   Any violation of this article;
   (d)   Conducting a business as defined in §
5-201 in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of
the city. Notice of the denial, revocation or suspension of a license shall be
given in writing to the applicant or mailed to his or her last known address
and the City Clerk shall set forth the grounds of such denial, revocation or
suspension; and
   (e)   Conviction of the crime of theft, larceny, fraud, embezzlement or any
felony within two years before the application date.
§ 5-210 APPEAL TO GOVERNING BODY.
   (a)   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or City
Clerk in the denial of an application or revocation or suspension of a license
as provided in this article, shall have the right of appeal to the governing
body.
   (b)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Clerk within 14
days after notice of revocation, suspension or denial of the license has been
given to or mailed to such applicant’s last known address and setting forth the
grounds for appeal.
   (c)   The governing body shall set a time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant in the same
manner as provided herein for notice of denial, revocation or suspension.
   (d)   The decision and order of the governing body on such appeal shall be
final and conclusive.
§ 5-211 REGULATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to make false or fraudulent
statements concerning the quality of nature of his or her goods, wares and
merchandise for the purpose of inducing another to purchase the same.
   (b)   Licensees are required to exhibit their license at the request of any
person to whom they attempt to sell their goods, wares and merchandise or take
orders for future delivery of the same.
§ 5-212 USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Except when authorized in writing by the City Clerk, no peddler, solicitor
or canvasser or any other person shall have exclusive right to any location in
the public streets for the purpose of selling or soliciting sales, nor shall
any person be permitted a stationary location in the public streets, nor shall
any person be permitted to operate in the sidewalks and streets within the fire
limits of the city or any congested area where his or her operations might
impede or inconvenience the public.
§ 5-213 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   Except when authorized in writing by the City Clerk, no licensee nor any
person in his or her behalf, shall use any sound device, including any loud-
speaking radio or sound-amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys,
parks or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the
city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be
capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or
other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods,
wares or merchandise that such licensee proposes to sell.
ARTICLE 3: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
5-301   Garage sales; defined
   
5-302   Number; duration
   
5-303   Permit; application; fee
   
5-304   Penalty
§ 5-301 GARAGE SALES; DEFINED.
   GARAGE SALE shall mean and include all sales entitled “garage sale”, “lawn
sale”, “attic sale”, “basement sale”, “yard sale”, “rummage sale” or any
similar casual sale of tangible personal property which is displayed or
advertised by any means whereby the public at large is or can be made aware of
the sale.
(Ord. 3973, passed - -)
§ 5-302 NUMBER; DURATION.
   Garage sales shall not exceed three consecutive days in duration, nor shall
sales occur more than four times each calendar year at any particular
residential location. No garage sale shall begin before 7:00 a.m., nor continue
beyond 8:00 p.m. No garage sale shall take place without a permit having been
issued authorizing such sale by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 3973, passed - -)
§ 5-303 PERMIT; APPLICATION; FEE.
   A garage sale permit application shall be filed at the City Clerk’s office
and a fee of $5 will be assessed for the application.
(Ord. 3973, passed - -)
§ 5-304 PENALTY.
   Any person, association or corporation who violates the terms of this
article shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100,
for each day the violation occurs.
(Ord. 3973, passed - -)
CHAPTER VI: ELECTIONS
   Article
      
1.   CITY ELECTIONS
      
2.   WARDS
ARTICLE 1: CITY ELECTIONS
Section
   
6-101   Conduct of election
   
6-102   Hours of voting
   
6-103   Commencement of terms of office; oath of office
   
6-104   Governing body elections
§ 6-101 CONDUCT OF ELECTION.
   The election of city officials shall be conducted in all respects as
provided by the laws of the state governing the holding of city elections.
(K.S.A. 25-2101 et seq.)
§ 6-102 HOURS OF VOTING.
   At all city elections, the polls shall be open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 7:
00 p.m., unless different hours are set and publicly announced by the County
Election Officer.
(K.S.A. 25-2111)
§ 6-103 COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF OFFICE; OATH OF OFFICE.
   (a)   The governing body shall take office and be sworn in during the first
meeting of the governing body to be held on or after December 1st.
   (b)   Every person elected or appointed to city office, before entering upon
the duties of such office, shall take and subscribe an oath or affirmation as
specified in K.S.A. 54-106, and amendments thereto, and every such oath or
affirmation shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(Charter Ord. 25, passed 2-10-2020) (K.S.A. 25-2120)
§ 6-104 GOVERNING BODY ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body shall consist of a Mayor, elected at large
and six Council members. One Council member shall be elected from each ward in
the city and the remaining three Council members shall be elected at large. The
Mayor and Council members shall be residents and qualified electors of the
city.
      (2)   The governing body of the city may, by ordinance, divide the city
into wards and precincts, establish the boundaries thereof, and number the
same. No ordinance redefining wards and precincts shall become effective less
than 30 days prior to the next regular city election.
   (B)   Those governing body positions with terms expiring in April 2017,
shall expire on the second Monday in January of 2018, when the city officials
elected in the November 2017 general election take office. Those governing body
positions with terms expiring in April 2019, shall expire on the second Monday
in January of 2020, when the city officials elected in the November general
election take office.
   (C)   A general election of city officers take place on the Tuesday
succeeding the first Monday in November 2017. Succeeding elections will be held
every two years for all such governing body positions whose terms have expired.
One Council member from each ward shall be elected at one election, and the
Mayor and three Council members at large shall be elected at the succeeding
election. The Council members and the Mayor shall have four-year terms.
(Charter Ord. 23, passed 11-28-2016)
ARTICLE 2: WARDS
Section
   
6-201   Wards
   
6-202   First Ward
   
6-203   Second Ward
   
6-204   Third Ward
§ 6-201 WARDS.
   The city is hereby divided in three wards to be styled and known as First
Ward, Second Ward and Third Ward.
§ 6-202 FIRST WARD.
   All that portion of the city lying south of Second Street shall constitute
the First Ward.
§ 6-203 SECOND WARD.
   All that portion of the city lying west of Main Street and north of Second
Street shall constitute the Second Ward.
§ 6-204 THIRD WARD.
   All that portion of the city lying east of Main Street and north of Second
Street shall constitute the Third Ward.
CHAPTER VII: FIRE
   Article
      
1.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
3.   FIREWORKS
      
4.   AUXILIARY FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
5.   FIREFIGHTERS RELIEF ASSOCIATION
ARTICLE 1: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
7-101   City Fire Department established
   
7-102   Membership; fire drill
   
7-103   Supervision of Department
   
7-104   Fire Chief; powers
   
7-105   Same; records
   
7-106   Assistant Chief
   
7-107   Private use of fire equipment
   
7-108   Fire equipment; emergency right-of-way and use
   
7-109   Reserved
   
7-110   Obstruction of fire hydrant
   
7-111   False alarm
   
7-112   Burning structures fee
§ 7-101 CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The Fire Department of the city is hereby established and the Department
shall be organized to consist of a Fire Chief, an Assistant Fire Chief and not
less than ten, nor more than 25 firefighters. Members of the Fire Department
shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council.
§ 7-102 MEMBERSHIP; FIRE DRILL.
   Members of the Fire Department shall all be volunteers. They shall meet at
least once each month for practice and drill. The Chief of the Fire Department
shall keep a record of attendance of such meetings. Any member who shall fail
to attend six consecutive meetings shall automatically become expelled from
membership.
§ 7-103 SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be under the supervision of the Mayor
and shall have immediate superintendency and control over and be responsible
for the care and condition of the fire apparatus and equipment. It shall be the
Chief’s duty to see that all such apparatus and equipment is ready at all times
for immediate use. It shall also be the Chief’s duty to submit a written report
as to the condition of all fire apparatus and equipment to the governing body
at their first meeting in October of each year.
§ 7-104 FIRE CHIEF; POWERS.
   (a)   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for the discipline of the members
and is hereby given authority to suspend or expel any member for refusal to
obey orders or for misconduct or failure to do his or her duty at a fire.
   (b)   The Chief shall also have the right to summon any and all persons
present to aid in extinguishing a fire or to aid in removing personal property
from any building on fire or in danger thereof and in guarding the same.
   (c)   At fires, the Chief shall have full power, control and command of all
persons present and shall direct the use of the fire apparatus and equipment,
and command the firefighters in the discharge of their duties. He or she shall
take such measures as he or she shall deem proper and necessary in the
preservation and protection of property and extinguishing of fires.
§ 7-105 SAME; RECORDS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep in convenient form a complete
record of all fires. Such information shall include the time and location,
construction of building, owner, occupancy, how extinguished, value of building
and contents, loss on building and contents, insurance on building and
contents, members responding to the alarm, and any other information deemed
advisable.
§ 7-106 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Fire Chief shall perform all the
duties and have all the authority and responsibility of the Chief as conferred
by this chapter.
§ 7-107 PRIVATE USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to take away or use any fire
apparatus or equipment for any private purpose or for any person willfully and
without proper authority to remove, take away, keep or conceal any tool,
appliance, equipment or other article used in any way by the Fire Department.
§ 7-108 FIRE EQUIPMENT; EMERGENCY RIGHT-OF-WAY AND USE.
   (a)   All fire apparatus and equipment is hereby given and granted the
exclusive right-of-way over and through all streets, avenues, alleys and public
thoroughfares in the city while en route to fires or in response to any alarm,
and it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to in any manner obstruct or
hinder the apparatus or equipment.
   (b)   All emergency vehicles of the Fire Department, while proceeding on
official business, shall be operated in strict accordance with the requirements
of the state statutes regarding the operation of emergency vehicles, and each
departmental member assigned to the operation of emergency vehicles shall
familiarize himself or herself with the requirements of the law and govern
himself or herself accordingly. Any operator violating the provisions of the
state law shall be liable for disciplinary action.
§ 7-109 RESERVED.
§ 7-110 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed upon or
about any fire hydrant any rubbish, building material, fence or other
obstruction of any character, or in any manner obstruct, hinder or delay the
Fire Department in the performance of its duties in case of fire. Nor shall any
person fasten to any fire hydrant any guy rope or brace, nor stand any vehicle
within 15 feet of any such hydrant.
§ 7-111 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make or sound or cause to
be made or sounded, or by any other means, any false alarm.
§ 7-112 BURNING STRUCTURES FEE.
   There is hereby established a charge of $1,000 for structures burned by the
Eureka Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. 4062, passed - -; Ord. 4321, passed 9-11-2023)
ARTICLE 2: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
7-201   Fire Prevention Code incorporated
   
7-202   Same; enforcement
   
7-203   Same; amendments
   
7-204   Burning of grass and leaves
   
7-205   Accumulation of rubbish and trash
   
7-206   Stacking of hay or straw
   
7-207   Keeping of packing materials
   
7-208   Storage of ashes
   
7-209   Filling gasoline tanks of motor vehicles
   
7-210   Fire hazards generally
   
7-211   Same; inspections to discover
   
7-212   Abatement of fire hazards; issuing order
   
7-213   Same; service of order; records
   
7-214   Gasoline storage
   
7-215   Open storage
   
7-216   Standards
   
7-217   Flammable liquids; vents and fill openings
§ 7-201 FIRE PREVENTION CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby adopted by the governing body of the city, for the purpose
of prescribing regulations, governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion, that certain code and standards known as the
International Fire Code, 2015 Edition, including all the appendix chapters,
published by the International Code Council, one copy shall be filed in the
office of the Clerk of the city, and the same are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on
which this article shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the city.
§ 7-202 SAME; ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
§ 7-203 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   (a)   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the code hereby adopted, it
shall be held to mean the City of Eureka.
   (b)   All sections of the Uniform Fire Code relating to fireworks are hereby
deleted in their entirety.
§ 7-204 BURNING OF GRASS AND LEAVES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to burn grass, leaves or tree limbs except for
the first weekend of each month, except in April, and every day in March and
November, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Persons must be in legal control of the lot or parcel of land on.
which burning is being done.
      (2)   Burning is limited to grass, grass clippings, leaves, flower and
vegetable vines, plants, and tree limbs.
      (3)   The use of diesel fuel for igniting the material is prohibited.
      (4)   Burning is limited to one hour after sunrise until one hour before
sunset.
      (5)   No burning will be allowed when the wind speed exceeds 15 miles per
hour.
      (6)   A garden hose or other fire extinguishing equipment must be readily
available for use.
   (b)   The Fire Chief or his designated representative reserves the right to
extinguish the fire for non-compliance with this section.
   (c)   Any person who violates the terms of this section, upon conviction,
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000.
(Ord. 4252, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 7-205 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH AND TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to accumulate or to keep in any
part of any building or outside of and adjacent to any building or in any
alley, sidewalk, street or premises within 30 feet of any building any rubbish,
trash, waste paper, excelsior, empty boxes, barrels or other combustibles that
shall constitute a fire hazard.
§ 7-206 STACKING OF HAY OR STRAW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, stack or store any hay or
straw within 500 feet of any building located inside the fire limits of the
city.
§ 7-207 KEEPING OF PACKING MATERIALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to keep excelsior or other packing material in
any other than metal or wood metal lined boxes or bins having self-closing or
automatic covers.
   (b)   All refuse and trash from rooms where packing or unpacking is done
shall be removed daily.
§ 7-208 STORAGE OF ASHES.
   It shall be unlawful to store ashes inside of any non-fire-proof building
unless they are stored in a noncombustible container or receptacle, and a
clearance of at least five feet shall be maintained between such container or
receptacle and any combustible materials not placed therein. Ashes shall not be
stored outside of any building in wooden, plastic or paper product receptacles
or dumped in contact with or in close proximity to any combustible materials.
§ 7-209 FILLING GASOLINE TANKS OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   The engines of motor vehicles shall be stopped when the gasoline tanks
of such vehicles are being filled with gasoline at service stations or other
places where gasoline is supplied to motor vehicles.
   (b)   The driver or person in control of such vehicle when the gasoline tank
of same is being filled who refuses, neglects or fails to stop the engine of
such vehicle shall likewise be guilty of a violation of this code.
§ 7-210 FIRE HAZARDS GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause or create anywhere within the city,
or to permit on any premises under his or her control, any situation or
condition that is conducive to or likely to cause or permit the outbreak of
fire or the spreading of fire. Any situation or condition conducive to the
outbreak of or spreading of fire is declared to be a fire hazard. The violation
of or failure to comply with any law pertaining to the storage, handling or use
of inflammable oils, explosives, liquefied petroleum gases or fertilizers and
all wires and other conductors charged with electricity, is declared to be a
fire hazard. The placing of stools, chairs or any other obstruction in the
aisles, hallways, doorway or exit of any theater, public hall, auditorium,
church or other place of indoor public assemblage, or the failure to provide
any such place of public assemblage with sufficient, accessible and
unobstructed fire exits and escapes is also declared to be a fire hazard. The
obstruction of any street, avenue, alley, fire hydrant or any other condition
that might delay the Fire Department in fighting fire is declared to be
unlawful.
§ 7-211 SAME; INSPECTIONS TO DISCOVER.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to inspect or cause to be inspected
by Fire Department officers or members, as often as may be necessary all
buildings, particularly all mercantile buildings, manufacturing plants,
warehouses, garages, hotels, boarding houses, rooming houses, theaters,
auditoriums and all places of public assemblage, for the purpose of discovering
the violation of any fire preventive law or any fire hazard and ascertaining
and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fires and to see
that all places of public assemblage, hotels and rooming houses have sufficient
and unobstructed facilities for escape therefrom in case of fire.
(Ord. 2421, passed - -)
§ 7-212 ABATEMENT OF FIRE HAZARDS; ISSUING ORDER.
   (a)   Whenever any officer or member of the Fire Department shall find or
discover any fire hazard or shall find in any building or upon any premises
combustible or explosive material or dangerous accumulation of rubbish or
unnecessary accumulation of paper, boxes, shavings or any other inflammable
material, so situated as to endanger property by the probability of fire, or
shall find or discover any violation of this chapter or any other law hazardous
to public safety from fires, the Fire Chief shall order the fire hazard or
danger from the fire forthwith abated and remedied and such order shall be
complied with immediately by the owner or occupant of such buildings or
premises.
   (b)   If the hazard or condition ordered abated and remedied is a violation
of, or a failure to comply with any law, the Fire Chief shall report the matter
to the City Attorney and he or she shall, if he or she deems it advisable,
prosecute the offender.
§ 7-213 SAME; SERVICE OF ORDER; RECORDS.
   Any order made under §
7-212 shall be in writing and may be served personally upon the owner or
occupant of the premises or by leaving it with any person in charge of the
premises or if the premises are unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident of
the city, then by mailing a copy to the owner’s last known post office address.
One notice to either the occupant or owner shall be sufficient. The Fire Chief
shall keep a record of and copies of all such orders and notices and shall
follow up such notices at the expiration of the time for compliance therewith
and when complied with make proper entry, and if not complied with, file
complaint with the Municipal Court against the property owner and/or occupant.
§ 7-214 GASOLINE STORAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or store or cause to be kept or
stored in any building in this city any gasoline, naphtha, benzine or any other
like product of crude petroleum or fuel oil in quantities exceeding five
gallons; except that, contained in tanks of automobiles, tractors, motorcycles
or other self-propelled vehicles. All flammable liquids not stored in
underground tanks, other than in tanks of automobiles, tractors, motorcycles or
other self-propelled vehicles shall be kept in tight and entirely closed metal
cans, free from leak and painted red. Vendors of gasoline in quantities of 250
gallons or less are hereby required to put all gasoline hereafter kept for sale
in a red can, tank, barrel or other receptacle, which receptacle shall be
labeled “gasoline”; and vendors of kerosene in quantities of 250 gallons or
less shall not put kerosene in any red can, tank, barrel or other receptacle.
Underground tanks must be provided with screened vents and their locations and
the pumps connected therewith must be approved by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
(Ord. 2908, passed - -)
§ 7-215 OPEN STORAGE.
   No person shall store or cause to be stored in the open upon any premises in
this city any gasoline, naphtha, benzine or any other like product of crude
petroleum or fuel oil in quantities exceeding one barrel, except as otherwise
provided in this article. Provided, however, the Greenwood County Hospital
shall be permitted to install a tank on its premises for the storage of propane
in a quantity not exceeding 1,000 gallons, provided that said storage shall
otherwise be in compliance with all state and local requirements. Provided
further, however, the City Council may, by special permit, grant a person the
right to store propane in a quantity not exceeding 1,000 gallons upon a finding
that said storage shall otherwise be in compliance with state and local
requirements and that said storage shall not create a special hazard to person
or property within the city.
(Ord. 3920, passed - -)
§ 7-216 STANDARDS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department is hereby authorized to establish standards
for the issuance of a permit for storage in the open upon premises in the city
of gasoline, naphtha, benzine or any other like product of crude petroleum or
fuel oil in quantities exceeding one barrel, but less than 300 gallons. Two
such permits may be issued for any one premises, but in that event each permit
issued shall authorize the storage of a different product. Any person desiring
to obtain a permit for such storage shall make application on a prescribed form
to the Chief of the Fire Department for a permit and shall pay a fee of $5 at
the time of making such application. If the Chief of the Fire Department finds
that such storage will be in compliance with the standards previously
established, a permit shall be issued. The standards established for the
issuance of such a permit shall be subject to review and approval by the City
Council. A copy of the standards shall be filed both in the office of the City
Clerk and in the office of the Chief of the Fire Department and shall be open
to review by an interested party during reasonable business hours.
(Ord. 2908, passed - -)
§ 7-217 FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS; VENTS AND FILL OPENINGS.
   Vent and fill pipes from underground tanks containing gasoline, benzine,
naphtha or other light products of crude petroleum shall not be located within
five feet of any building having the nearest wall constructed of combustible
material or within five feet of any opening in any wall of any building.
ARTICLE 3: FIREWORKS
Section
   
7-301   Fireworks defined
   
7-302   Fireworks prohibited
   
7-303   Same: exceptions; discharges
   
7-304   Same: exception; sale of fireworks
   
7-305   Permit for sale of fireworks required; fee; issuance
   
7-306   Permit for public fireworks display required
   
7-307   Approved fireworks; bottle rockets prohibited
   
7-308   Discharge on streets and public property prohibited
   
7-309   Throwing prohibited
   
7-310   Sale of fireworks; where prohibited
   
7-311   Retail display of fireworks
   
7-312   Fire extinguishers required
   
7-313   Restrictions as to gasoline installations
   
7-314   Authority of Fire Chief
   
7-315   Banning fireworks
   
7-316   Location of stands
   
7-317   Type of fireworks
   
7-318   Supervision
   
7-319   Lighting fireworks
   
7-320   Lighting fireworks; public property
   
7-321   State regulations
§ 7-301 FIREWORKS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Those items as defined by the rules and regulations of the State
Fire Marshal, and shall include but not be limited to: firecrackers, torpedoes,
sparklers, Roman candles, sky rockets, pin wheels, cap or toy pistols (except
such pistols or any like device designed to discharge paper caps containing not
more than 0.25 grains of explosive mixture), canes, bombs, cannons or other
like devices and all classes of fireworks that may be shot into the air or
propelled over the ground by explosive discharges or any device using blank
cartridges.
§ 7-302 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Except as provided in §§
7-303 to
7-306, it shall be unlawful for any person to keep, store, display for sale,
fire, discharge or explode any fireworks.
   (b)   Nothing in this article shall be construed as applying to:
      (1)   Toy paper caps containing not more than 0.25 of a grain of
explosive composition per cap;
      (2)   The manufacture, storage, sale or authorized use of signals
necessary for the safe operation of railroads or other classes of public or
private transportation;
      (3)   The military or naval forces of the United States or of this state
while in the performance of official duty;
      (4)   Law enforcement officers while in the performance of official duty;
or
      (5)   The sale or use of blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or
athletic events.
§ 7-303 SAME: EXCEPTIONS; DISCHARGES.
   (a)   Section
7-302 shall not apply to the firing or discharge of fireworks in the city
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on June 27 through July 5.
   (b)   The governing body of the city may, in its discretion, grant
permission at any time for the public display of fireworks by responsible
individuals or organizations when such display or displays shall be of such a
character and so located, discharged and fired as shall not be a fire hazard or
endanger persons or surrounding property.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to give any
public display of fireworks without having first obtained a permit thereof.
(Ord. 4266, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 7-304 SAME: EXCEPTION; SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   Any person who has first obtained a valid permit to sell fireworks within
the city may do so between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight commencing
June 27 and through July 5 of each year.
(Ord. 4266, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 7-305 PERMIT FOR SALE OF FIREWORKS REQUIRED; FEE; ISSUANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, display for sale, offer to sell
or give away any type of fireworks within the city without first paying a fee
of $600 for residents and $1,200 for nonresidents per establishment of premises
to the City Clerk and applying for and securing a permit thereof on or before
June 25 of the permit year.
(Ord. 4050, passed - -; Ord. 4295, passed 5-9-2022)
§ 7-306 PERMIT FOR PUBLIC FIREWORKS DISPLAY REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or provide a
fireworks display for the public or for organized groups without first
obtaining a permit to do so by making application at least 30 days in advance
of the desired display. Approval of the permit shall be by the governing body.
No permit shall be approved unless the applicant furnishes a certificate of
public liability insurance for the display in a minimum amount of $500,000,
written by an insurance carrier licensed to do business in the state,
conditioned as being non-cancellable except by giving ten days’ advance written
notice to the City Clerk. In the event of cancellation of the insurance prior
to the display, the permit shall automatically be revoked and void.
      (2)   The application for the permit shall clearly state:
         (A)   The name of the applicant;
         (B)   The group for which the display is planned;
         (C)   The location of the display;
         (D)   The date and time of the display;
         (E)   The nature or kind of fireworks to be used;
         (F)   The name of the person, firm or corporation that will make the
actual discharge of the fireworks; and
         (G)   Anticipated need for police, fire or other municipal services.
   (b)   No permit shall be issued if the location, nature of the fireworks or
other relevant factor is such as to create an undue hazard or risk of harm or
damage to persons or property.
§ 7-307 APPROVED FIREWORKS; BOTTLE ROCKETS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   All fireworks offered for sale and discharged within the city shall be
of a type that has been tested and approved for sale and use within the state
by the State Fire Marshal.
   (b)   Bottle rockets and other similar self-propelled firework or fireworks
devices consisting of a tube and attached guiding stock or rod shall not be
sold or discharged in the city.
§ 7-308 DISCHARGE ON STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, ignite or fire any
fireworks upon any public street, alley or avenue or in any park or public
place within the city.
§ 7-309 THROWING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, cast or propel fireworks of
any kind in the direction of or into the path of any animal, person or group of
persons, or from, in the direction of, or into any vehicle of any kind.
§ 7-310 SALE OF FIREWORKS; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for fireworks to be stored, sold or displayed for
sale in a place of business where paint, oils, varnishes, turpentine or
gasoline or other flammable substances are kept, unless such fireworks are in a
separate and distinct section or department of the premises.
   (b)   Where the Fire Chief deems there is a fire hazard, he or she is hereby
authorized to have such hazard abated.
§ 7-311 RETAIL DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS.
   (a)   All retailers are forbidden to expose fireworks where the sun shines
through glass on the merchandise displayed, except where such fireworks are in
the original package.
   (b)   All fireworks displayed for sale must remain in original packages,
except where an attendant is on constant duty at all times where such fireworks
are on display; provided, that fireworks in open stock may be kept in show
cases or counters out of the reach of the public without an attendant being on
duty.
   (c)   Signs reading “Fireworks for Sale - No Smoking Allowed” shall be
displayed in the section of a store or premises set aside for the sale of
fireworks.
§ 7-312 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS REQUIRED.
   (a)   Two functioning and approved fire extinguishers must be provided and
kept in close proximity to the stock of fireworks in all permanent buildings
where fireworks are stored, sold or displayed for sale.
   (b)   Small stands, temporarily erected to be used as a place for storing
and selling fireworks only, shall have one such fire extinguisher, or in lieu
of the fire extinguisher, a pressurized water hose with nozzle end within five
feet of the fireworks stand.
§ 7-313 RESTRICTIONS AS TO GASOLINE INSTALLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to store, keep, sell, display for sale or discharge any
fireworks within 50 feet of any gasoline pump, gasoline filling station,
gasoline bulk station or any building in which gasoline or volatile liquids are
sold in quantities in excess of one gallon, except in stores where cleaners,
paints and oils are handled in sealed containers only.
§ 7-314 AUTHORITY OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Fire Department is authorized to seize and confiscate all
fireworks that may be kept, stored or used in violation of any section of this
article, and all of the rules of the State Fire Marshal. He or she shall
dispose of all such fireworks as may be directed by the governing body.
§ 7-315 BANNING FIREWORKS.
   The Fire Chief shall have the authority and discretion to ban the discharge
of all fireworks within the corporate limits of the city if the weather
conditions make discharge of fireworks in the city hazardous to persons or
property.
§ 7-316 LOCATION OF STANDS.
   Stands erected for the sale of fireworks shall not be located within a
radius of 50 feet of any existing retail establishment.
(Ord. 2557, passed - -)
§ 7-317 TYPE OF FIREWORKS.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale fireworks in the city, except such
fireworks as are approved for retail by the State Fire Marshal Department.
(Ord. 2557, passed - -)
§ 7-318 SUPERVISION.
   Fireworks shall not be sold or offered for sale unless the sale or offer of
sale is made under the supervision of a person who is at least 18 years of age
and who is present at the time the sale or offer of sale is made which person
has been designated by the owner of the merchandise as being in charge of this
sale.
(Ord. 2557, passed - -)
§ 7-319 LIGHTING FIREWORKS.
   Fireworks shall not be lighted within a radius of 100 feet of any fireworks
retail establishment.
(Ord. 2557, passed - -)
§ 7-320 LIGHTING FIREWORKS; PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Fireworks shall not be ignited on public property without first having
obtained a permit for the same from the Fire Chief of the city’s Fire
Department or his or her designated representative and payment of the fee
therefor to be designated from time to time by the City Council by resolution.
All fireworks ignited on public property under a permit obtained as herein
provided shall be ignited under, the direct supervision and control of the Fire
Chief or his or her designated representative.
(Ord. 2557, passed - -)
§ 7-321 STATE REGULATIONS.
   Those regulations designated Regulations Governing the Storage, Sale and
Handling of Fireworks in the state adopted by the State Fire Marshal
Department, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk and the
office of the Fire Chief of the city are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this article.
(Ord. 2557, passed - -)
ARTICLE 4: AUXILIARY FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
7-401   Creation and establishment
   
7-402   Appointment and duties
   
7-403   Compensation
§ 7-401 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established an Auxiliary Fire Department, which
shall consist of members the number of which are to be determined from time to
time by the City Council.
(Ord. 2590, passed - -)
§ 7-402 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES.
   Members of the Auxiliary Fire Department shall be appointed by the Chief of
the Fire Department and shall perform such duties as are prescribed by him or
her or by the City Council.
(Ord. 2590, passed - -)
§ 7-403 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Auxiliary Fire Department shall serve without compensation.
Provided, however, the city may purchase at its expense for the benefit of the
members an accident insurance policy covering the members against accidental
death or injury while the members are traveling to or from a fire or assisting
in putting out a fire or performing such other duties as are directed by the
Chief of the Fire Department.
(Ord. 2590, passed - -)
ARTICLE 5: FIREFIGHTERS RELIEF ASSOCIATION
Section
   
7-501   Members; organization
   
7-502   Treasurer’s bond; report
   
7-503   Funds; use
§ 7-501 MEMBERS; ORGANIZATION.
   The Firefighters’ Relief Association of the city shall consist of the
members of the Volunteer Fire Department of the city. The officers of the
association shall consist of a President, a Vice President, a Secretary and a
Treasurer who shall be chosen as provided by the bylaws of the association.
§ 7-502 TREASURER’S BOND; REPORT.
   The Treasurer shall give bond for the safekeeping of the Firefighters’
Relief Fund and for the faithful performance of his or her duty in such sum
with such sureties as may be approved by the governing body. The Treasurer,
with the assistance of the Secretary, shall before March 1 of each year, make
out and verify an account showing in full the receipts and disbursements and
general condition of the Firefighters’ Relief Fund for the year ending on the
preceding December 31, and such account shall be submitted to the State
Commissioner of Insurance on or before March 1.
§ 7-503 FUNDS; USE.
   All moneys received by the Treasurer of the Firefighters’ Relief Association
shall be set apart and used by the Firefighters’ Relief Association solely and
entirely for the objects and purposes of this article and as set forth in
K.S.A. Ch. 40, Art. 17, and shall be paid to and distributed by the
Firefighters’ Relief Association.
CHAPTER VIII: HEALTH AND WELFARE
   Article
      
1.   BOARD OF HEALTH
      
2.   HEALTH NUISANCES
      
2A.   ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
      
3.   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
      
4.   WEEDS
      
5.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
6.   RODENT CONTROL
      
7.   FAIR HOUSING
      
8.   LOUD SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS
      
9.   INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
ARTICLE 1: BOARD OF HEALTH
   [Reserved]
ARTICLE 2: HEALTH NUISANCES
Section
   
8-201   Nuisances unlawful; defined
   
8-202   Public officer
   
8-203   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-204   Right of entry
   
8-205   Order of violation
   
8-206   Same; contents
   
8-207   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-208   Abatement
   
8-209   Hearing
   
8-210   Costs assessed
§ 8-201 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any nuisance
within the city as defined, without limitation, as follows:
   (a)   Filth, excrement, lumber, rocks, dirt, cans, paper, trash, metal or
any other offensive or disagreeable thing or substance thrown or left or
deposited upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park; public or private
enclosure or lot whether vacant or occupied;
   (b)   All dead animals not removed within 24 hours after death;
   (c)   Any place or structure or substance which emits or causes any
offensive, disagreeable or nauseous odors;
   (d)   All stagnant ponds or pools of water;
   (e)   All grass or weeds or other unsightly vegetation not usually
cultivated or grown for domestic use or to be marketed or for ornamental
purposes;
   (f)   Abandoned iceboxes or refrigerators kept on the premises under the
control of any person, or deposited on the sanitary landfill, or any icebox or
refrigerator not in actual use unless the door, opening or lid thereof is
unhinged or unfastened and removed therefrom;
   (g)   All articles or things whatsoever caused, kept, maintained or
permitted by any person to the injury, annoyance or inconvenience of the public
or of any neighborhood; and/or
   (h)   Any fence, structure, thing or substance placed upon or being upon any
street, sidewalk, alley or public, ground so as to obstruct the same, except as
permitted by the laws of the city.
(Ord. 4020, passed - -)
§ 8-202 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The City Council shall designate a public officer to be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 4020, passed - -)
§ 8-203 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the County Health Department, Chief of
Police or the Fire Chief. A public officer may make such inquiry and inspection
when he or she observes conditions which appear to constitute a nuisance. Upon
making any inquiry and inspection, the public officer shall make a written
report of findings.
(Ord. 4020, passed - -)
§ 8-204 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be a violation of this code to deny the public officer the right of
access and entry upon private property at any reasonable time for the purpose
of making inquiry and inspection to determine if a nuisance exists.
(Ord. 4020, passed - -)
§ 8-205 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-201 an order stating the violation. The order shall be served on the owner or
agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24- month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e) (Ord. 4020, passed - -)
§ 8-206 SAME; CONTENTS.
   The order shall state the condition(s) which is (are) in violation of §
8-201 . The order shall also inform the person, corporation, partnership or
association that:
   (a)   He, she or they shall have ten days from the receipt of the order to
abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-201 ; provided, however, that the governing body (or its designee named in §
8-205 ) shall grant one or more extensions of the ten-day period if the owner
or agent of the property demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in
the abatement of the conditions in violation of §
8-201 ; or
   (b)   He, she or they have ten days from the receipt of the order, plus any
additional time granted under subsection (a), to request a hearing before the
governing body or its designated representative of the matter as provided by §
8-209 ; and
   (c)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-207 and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as provided by §
8-208 .
(Ord. 4020, passed - -)
§ 8-207 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person, corporation, partnership or association fail to comply
with the order to abate the nuisance or request a hearing the public officer
may file a complaint in the Municipal Court of the city against such person,
corporation, partnership or association and upon conviction of any violation of
provisions of §
8-201 , be fined in an amount not to exceed $100 or be imprisoned not to exceed
30 days or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues after notice has been served shall constitute an
additional or separate offense.
(Ord. 4020, passed - -)
§ 8-208 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-207 , the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been served pursuant to §
8-205 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time periods specified
in §
8-206 , the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-210 . A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24- month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail.
(Ord. 4020, passed - -)
§ 8-209 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-206 , such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall be held
by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
manner provided in §
8-208 .
(Ord. 4020, passed - -)
§ 8-210 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-208 , the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or
removal incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is
due within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover
the cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section.
The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid, within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
(Ord. 4020, passed - -)
ARTICLE 2A: ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
Section
   
8-2 A01   Title
   
8-2 A02   Legislative finding of fact
   
8-2 A03   Purpose
   
8-2 A04   Rules of construction
   
8-2 A05   Definitions
   
8-2 A06   Public officer
   
8-2 A07   Enforcement standards
   
8-2 A08   Unlawful acts
   
8-2 A09   Order of violation
   
8-2 A10   Penalty
   
8-2 A11   Abatement
   
8-2 A12   Hearing
   
8-2 A13   Appeals
   
8-2 A14   Costs assessed
   
8-2 A15   Construction
§ 8-2 A01 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Environmental Code”.
§ 8-2 A02 LEGISLATIVE FINDING OF FACT.
   The governing body has found that there exists within the city unsightly and
hazardous conditions due to: dilapidation, deterioration or disrepair of walls,
siding, fences or structure exteriors; accumulations increasing the hazards of
accidents or other calamities; structural defects; uncleanliness; unsightly
stored or parked material, equipment, supplies, machinery, vehicles or parts
thereof. Such conditions are inimical to the general welfare of the community
in that they have a blighting influence on the adjoining properties, the
neighborhood and the city, or are injurious to the health and safety of the
residents of the city. The governing body desires to promote the public health,
safety and welfare by the repair, removal, abatement and regulation of such
conditions in the manner hereafter provided.
§ 8-2 A03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to protect, preserve, upgrade and regulate
the environmental quality of industrial, commercial and residential
neighborhoods in this city, by outlawing conditions which are injurious to the
health, safety, welfare or aesthetic characteristics of the neighborhoods and
to provide for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-2 A04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following rules of construction shall
apply.
   (a)   Any part thereof. Whenever the words premises, structure, building or
yard are used, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the
words “or any part thereof”.
   (b)   Gender. Words of gender shall be construed to mean neuter, feminine or
masculine, as may be applicable.
   (c)   Number. Words of number shall be construed to mean singular or plural,
as may be applicable.
   (d)   Tense. Words of tense shall be construed to mean present or future, as
may be applicable.
   (e)   Shall. The word shall is mandatory and not permissive.
§ 8-2 A05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that is not currently registered
or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149 inclusive, as amended; or parked in
violation of the ordinance; or incapable of moving under its own power; or in a
junked or wrecked condition.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A secondary structure detached from the principal
structure but on the same premises, including, but not limited to, garages,
sheds, barns or outbuildings.
   COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for other
than residential purposes.
   DILAPIDATION, DETERIORATION or DISREPAIR. Any condition characterized by,
but not limited to, holes, breaks, rot, decay, crumbling, cracking, peeling or
flaking paint, rusting or other evidence of physical damage, neglect, lack of
maintenance, excessive use or weathering.
   EXTERIOR. Those parts of a structure that are exposed to the weather or
subject to contact with the elements; including, but not limited to, sidings,
facings, veneers, masonry, roofs, foundations, porches, screens, shutters,
windows, doors or signs.
   GARBAGE. Without limitation, any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable
waste matter that results from the handling, preparation, cooking, serving,
delivering, storage or use of foodstuffs.
   PERSON. Any individual, individuals, corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association, other business organization, committee, board,
trustee, receiver, agent or other representative who has charge, care, control
or responsibility for maintenance of any premises, regardless of status as
owner, renter, tenant or lessee, whether or not in possession.
   PREMISES. Any lot, plot or parcel of land including the structures thereon.
PREMISES shall also mean any lot, plot or parcel of land without any structures
thereon.
   REFUSE. Garbage and trash.
   RESIDENTIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for human habitation.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground, including
any appurtenances belonging thereto.
   TRASH. Combustible waste consisting of, but not limited to, papers, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, furniture, bedding, rags, leaves, yard
trimmings or tree branches and non-combustible waste consisting of, but not
limited to, metal, tin, cans, glass, crockery, plastics, mineral matter, ashes,
clinkers, or street rubbish and sweepings.
   WEATHERED. Deterioration caused by exposure to the elements.
   YARD. The area of the premises not occupied by any structure.
§ 8-2 A06 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The City Council shall designate a public officer to be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-2 A07 ENFORCEMENT STANDARDS.
   No person shall be found in violation of this article unless the public
officer, after a reasonable inquiry and inspection of the premises, believes
that conditions exist of a quality and appearance not commensurate with the
character of the neighborhood. Such belief must be supported by evidence of a
level of maintenance significantly below that of the rest of the neighborhood.
Such evidence shall include conditions declared unlawful under §
8-2 A08, but shall not include conditions that are not readily visible from any
public place or from any surrounding private property.
§ 8-2 A08 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to exist on any
residential, commercial or industrial premises, conditions that are injurious
to the health, safety or general welfare of the residents of the community or
conditions that are detrimental to adjoining property, the neighborhood or the
city.
   (b)   For the purpose of fair and efficient enforcement and administration,
such unlawful conditions shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   Exterior conditions (yard) shall include, but not be limited to,
the scattering over or the parking, leaving, depositing or accumulation on the
yard of any of the following:
         (A)   Lumber, wire, metal, tires, concrete, masonry products, plastic
products, supplies, equipment, machinery, auto parts, junk or refuse;
         (B)   Abandoned motor vehicles;
         (C)   Furniture, stoves, refrigerators, televisions, sinks, bicycles,
lawn mowers or other such items of personal property; or
         (D)   Nauseous substances, carcasses of dead animals or places where
animals are kept in an offensive manner.
      (2)   Exterior conditions (structure) shall include, but not be limited
to, deteriorated, dilapidated or unsightly:
         (A)   Exteriors of any structure;
         (B)   Exteriors of any accessory structure; or
         (C)   Fences, walls or retaining walls.
§ 8-2 A09 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-2 A08 an order stating the violation. The order shall be served on the owner
or agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24- month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail. The order shall
state:
      (1)   The condition that has caused the violation of this article; and
      (2)   That the person in violation shall have:
         (A)   Ten days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the exterior
conditions (yard) violation; and/or
         (B)   Forty-five days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the
exterior conditions (structure) violation; or
         (C)   Ten days from the receipt of the order, plus any additional time
granted under subsection (c) of this section, to request, as provided in §
8-2 A12 a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative on
the matter.
   (c)   Provided, however, that the governing body (or its designee named
herein) shall grant one or more extensions to the time periods stated in
subsections (b)(2)(A) and (b)(2)(B) above, if the owner or agent of the
property demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in the abatement of
the conditions that have caused the violation of this article; and
   (d)   That failure to alleviate the condition or to request a hearing may
result in prosecution under §
8-2 A10 and/or abatement of the condition by the city according to §
8-2 A11 with the costs assessed against the property under §
8-2 A14.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-2 A10 PENALTY.
   The public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal Court against any
person found to be in violation of §
8-2 A08, provided however, that such person shall first have been sent an order
of violation as provided in §
8-2 A09 and that the person has neither alleviated the conditions causing the
alleged violation nor requested a hearing before the governing body within the
time periods specified in §
8-2 A09. Upon such complaint in the Municipal Court, any person found to be in
violation of §
8-2 A08 shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $100, or by imprisonment, for not more than 30 days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment, for each offense. For the purposes of this article, a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which such
violation is permitted to exist.
§ 8-2 A11 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-2 A10, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in
the following manner. If a person to whom an order has been served pursuant to
§
8-2 A09 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time periods specified
in §
8-2 A09, the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-2 A14.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (c)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24- month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-2 A12 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-2 A09, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure
to make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the
person’s right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall
be held by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as
possible after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall be
advised by the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in
advance thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel,
and the person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is
deemed necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated
representative. The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules
of evidence. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body
or its designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted
by the governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in
the manner provided in §
8-2 A11.
§ 8-2 A13 APPEALS.
   Any person affected by any determination of the governing body under §§
8-2 A11 and
8-2A12 may appeal such determination in the manner provided by K.S.A. 60-2101.
§ 8-2 A14 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-2 A11, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or
removal incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is
due within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover
the cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section.
The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
§ 8-2 A15 CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
laws nor to prevent or punish violations thereof. The powers conferred by this
article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by the
State Constitution, by any other law or by ordinance.
ARTICLE 3: JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
8-301   Findings of governing body
   
8-302   Definitions
   
8-303   Nuisances unlawful; defined; exceptions
   
8-303.1   Junked, abandoned and/or legally unusable boats and trailers declared
a public nuisance
   
8-303.2   Offenses
   
8-303.3   Exceptions
   
8-303.4   Procedure for disposition of junked vehicles, boats and trailers
   
8-303.5   Disposal of junked, abandoned or legally unusable vehicles, boats or
trailers
   
8-304   Public officer
   
8-305   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-306   Right of entry
   
8-307   Order of violation
   
8-308   Same; contents
   
8-309   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-310   Abatement
   
8-311   Disposition of vehicle; recovery of vehicle
   
8-312   Hearing
   
8-313   Costs assessed
§ 8-301 FINDINGS OF GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body finds that junked, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative or
abandoned vehicles affect the health, safety and general welfare of citizens of
the city because they:
   (a)   Service as a breeding ground for flies, mosquitoes, rats and other
insects and rodents;
   (b)   Are a danger to persons, particularly children, because of broken
glass, sharp metal protrusions, insecure mounting on blocks, jacks or other
supports;
   (c)   Are a ready source of fire and explosion;
   (d)   Encourage pilfering and theft;
   (e)   Constitute a blighting influence upon the area in which they are
located; and/or
   (f)   Constitute a fire hazard because they frequently block access for fire
equipment to adjacent buildings and structures.
(Ord. 4019, passed - -)
§ 8-302 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOAT. Every description of watercraft used or capable of being used as a
means of transportation on water.
   INOPERABLE. A condition of being junked, wrecked, wholly or partially
dismantled, discarded, abandoned or unable to perform the function or purpose
for which it was originally constructed.
   JUNKED BOAT. Any BOAT that is wrecked, partially dismantled, INOPERABLE,
abandoned, whether attended to or not, and absence of current registration
number affixed to the bow.
   TRAILER. Any device which has no independent power mechanism of its own, but
which can be attached to a VEHICLE.
   VEHICLE. Without limitation, any automobile, truck, tractor or motorcycle
which as originally built contained an engine, regardless of whether it
contains an engine at any other time.
(Ord. 4019, passed - -; Ord. 4326, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 8-303 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any motor vehicle
nuisance within the city as follows:
   (a)   A motor vehicle nuisance is any motor vehicle which is not currently
registered or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149 inclusive, as amended;
or parked in violation of city ordinance; or incapable of moving under its own
power; or in a junked, wrecked or inoperable condition. Anyone of the following
conditions shall raise the presumption that a vehicle is junked, wrecked or
inoperable:
      (1)   Absence of a current registration plate upon the vehicle;
      (2)   Placement of the vehicle or parts thereof upon jacks, blocks or
other supports; or
      (3)   Absence of one or more parts of the vehicle necessary for the
lawful operation of the vehicle upon street or highway.
   (b)   (1)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         (A)   Any motor vehicle which is enclosed in a garage or other
building;
         (B)   To the parking or storage of a vehicle inoperable for a period
of 30 consecutive days or less;
         (C)   To any person conducting a business enterprise in compliance
with existing zoning regulations; or
         (D)   Any person who places such vehicles behind screening of
sufficient size, strength and density to screen such vehicles from the view of
the public; provided, such screening prohibits ready access to stored vehicles
by children.
      (2)   Nothing in this subsection (b) shall be construed to authorize the
maintenance of a public nuisance.
(Ord. 4019, passed - -)
§ 8-303.1 JUNKED, ABANDONED AND/OR LEGALLY UNUSABLE BOATS AND TRAILERS DECLARED
A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A junked boat, parts of such boats, and trailers which are located in any
place which is visible from a public place or public right-of-way is hereby
determined to be detrimental to the safety and welfare of the general public,
tends to reduce the value of private property, constitutes a nuisance, creates
a hazard to the health and safety of citizens, and is detrimental the economic
welfare of the city. Such boats, parts of such boats and trailers are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and, therefore, unlawful.
(Ord. 4326, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 8-303.2 OFFENSES.
   (a)   Should any person, firm or corporation maintaining a public nuisance
described by §
8-303.1 after notice is provided, fail to repair or eliminate the conditions
creating the nuisance or otherwise comply with this article, said individual
and/or entity shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon conviction, said person,
firm or corporation shall be fined a sum not to exceed $100. Each day a
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. Should the violator be a
corporation, each officer of the corporation may be held severally liable for
any offense provided herein.
   (b)   The City of Eureka’s Municipal Court shall issue any such orders as
may be deemed necessary to abate and remove a nuisance upon conviction.
(Ord. 4326, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 8-303.3 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following boats, parts of boats or trailers are exempt from the
provisions of §§
8-303.1 through
8-303.5:
   (a)   A boat or trailer which is completely enclosed within a building;
   (b)   One inoperable boat or trailer may be parked in a lawful manner in a
fenced backyard on private property, zoned or used for residential purposes.
The parking of such a boat or trailer shall not be visible from the street or
other public or private property;
   (c)   A boat or trailer which is stored or parked in a lawful manner on
private property in connection with the business of a licensed dealer and/or
retailer of such property;
   (d)   A boat or trailer which is stored or parked in a lawful manner at a
junk yard or wrecker service; and
   (e)   To the parking or storage of boats and trailers inoperable for a
period of 30 consecutive days or less.
(Ord. 4326, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 8-303.4 PROCEDURE FOR DISPOSITION OF JUNKED VEHICLES, BOATS AND TRAILERS.
   The procedure for disposition of junked, abandoned and/or legally unusable
boats and trailers on private property, public property or public right-of-way
shall be as follows:
   (a)   Private property, public property or public right-of-way. The city
shall furnish not less than ten days’ notice stating the nature of the nuisance
on private property and notifying the owner that said property shall be removed
and the nuisance abated not later than the tenth day on which the notice was
personally delivered or mailed to the owner. Said notice shall be delivered
either personally or by certified mail to the last known registered owner of
the property and to any lien holders of record concerning the property. In the
event that the owner of the property is unknown, said notice may be placed on
the property causing the nuisance.
   (b)   The owner and/or lien holder of record shall have the right to request
a public hearing prior to the removal of a boat or trailer that is declared a
public nuisance. Such requests for a hearing must be made within ten days from
receipt of the nuisance notice. Any public hearing shall be held in a timely
manner before the City Council, but no later than the tenth day upon which such
hearing is requested. The City Council may issue any necessary orders to
enforce the procedures for the abatement and removal of property the subject of
such a hearing.
   (c)   The administration of the procedures herein shall be by the city’s
Code Enforcement Officer and/or any licensed police officer employed by or
working on behalf of the city. The removal of any junked, abandoned, or legally
unusable boat or trailer in violation of §§
8-303.1 through
8-303.5 may be made by any duly-authorized person. A citation may be issued and
a complaint may be filed in the Municipal Court of the City of Eureka for the
violation of maintaining a public nuisance, in the event that said nuisance is
not removed and abated and a hearing is not requested within the period
provided herein. The city may invoke any and all authority granted by the State
of Kansas and other applicable statutes in the state.
(Ord. 4326, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 8-303.5 DISPOSAL OF JUNKED, ABANDONED OR LEGALLY UNUSABLE VEHICLES, BOATS OR
TRAILERS.
   Boats and/or trailers found to be in violation of §§
8-303.1 through
8-303.5 may be disposed of by removal to a scrap yard, a motor vehicle
demolisher, or any suitable site as determined by the city, for processing as
scrap or salvage pursuant to state law. The cost of the removal and disposal
shall be the sole cost and expense of the owner.
(Ord. 4326, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 8-304 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The City Council shall designate a public officer to be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 4019, passed - -)
§ 8-305 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Chief of Police or the Fire Chief.
The public officer may make such inquiry and inspection when he or she observes
conditions which appear to constitute a nuisance. Upon making any inquiry and
inspection, the public officer shall make a written report of findings.
(Ord. 4019, passed - -)
§ 8-306 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be a violation of this article to deny the public officer the right
of access and entry upon private property at any reasonable time for the
purpose of making inquiry and inspection to determine1 if a nuisance exists.
(Ord. 4019, passed - -)
§ 8-307 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-303 an order stating the violation. The order shall be served on the owner or
agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24- month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e) (Ord. 4019, passed - -)
§ 8-308 SAME; CONTENTS.
   (a)   The order shall state the condition(s) which is (are) in violation of
§
8-303 . The notice shall also inform the person, corporation, partnership or
association that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from receipt of the order to
abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-303 ; or
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from receipt of the order to request
a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative of the
matter as provided by §
8-312 .
   (b)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-309 and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as provided by §
8-310 .
(Ord. 4019, passed - -)
§ 8-309 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person fail to comply with the notice to abate the nuisance or
request a hearing, the public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal
Court of the city against such person and, upon conviction of any violation of
provisions of §
8-303 , be fined in an amount not to exceed $100 or be imprisoned not to exceed
30 days or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues after notice has been served shall constitute an
additional or separate offense.
(Ord. 4019, passed - -)
§ 8-310 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-309 , the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner, if a person to whom an order has been sent pursuant to §
8-307 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation or
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time period specified
in §
8-308 , the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution.
   (b)   The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by the
city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the nuisance
was located as provided in §
8-313 . A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Service by certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (c)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24- month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail.
(Ord. 4019, passed - -)
§ 8-311 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE; RECOVERY OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   Disposition of any motor vehicle removed and abated from private
property pursuant to this article shall be as provided by K.S.A. 8-1102, as
amended.
   (b)   Any person attempting to recover a motor vehicle impounded, as
provided in this article, shall show proof of valid registration and ownership
of the motor vehicle before the motor vehicle shall be released. In addition,
the person desiring the release of the motor vehicle shall pay all reasonable
costs associated with the impoundment of the motor vehicle, including
transportation and storage fees, prior to the release of the motor vehicle.
(Ord. 4019, passed - -)
§ 8-312 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-308 , such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall be held
by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefore, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
matter provided in §
8-310 .
(Ord. 4019, passed - -)
§ 8-313 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-310 , the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or
removal incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is
due within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover
the cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section.
The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
(Ord. 4019, passed - -)
ARTICLE 4: WEEDS
Section
   
8-401   Weeds to be removed
   
8-402   Definitions
   
8-403   Public officer; notice to remove
   
8-404   Abatement; assessment of costs
   
8-405   Right of entry
   
8-406   Unlawful interference
   
8-407   Noxious weeds
§ 8-401 WEEDS TO BE REMOVED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, lessee, tenant or other person
occupying or having charge or control of any premises to permit weeds to remain
upon said premises or any area between the property lines of said premises and
the centerline of any adjacent street or alley, including but not specifically
limited to sidewalks, streets, alleys, easements, rights-of-way and all other
areas, public or private. All weeds as hereinafter defined are hereby declared
a nuisance and are subject to abatement as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 4027, passed - -)
§ 8-402 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CALENDAR YEAR. The period of time beginning January 1 and ending December 31
of the same year.
   WEEDS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Brush and woody vines shall, be classified as weeds;
      (2)   Weeds and indigenous grasses which may attain such large growth as
to become, when dry, a fire menace to adjacent improved property;
      (3)   Weeds which bear or may bear seeds of a downy or wingy nature;
      (4)   Weeds which are located in an area which harbors rats, insects,
animals, reptiles, or any other creature which either may or does constitute a
menace to health, public safety or welfare; or
      (5)   Weeds and indigenous grasses on or about residential property
which, because of its height, has a blighting influence on the neighborhood.
Any such weeds and indigenous grasses shall be presumed to be blighting if they
exceed 12 inches in height.
(Ord. 4027, passed - -)
§ 8-403 PUBLIC OFFICER; NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (a)   The City Council shall designate a public officer to be charged with
the administration and enforcement of this article. The public officer or
authorized assistant shall give written notice to the owner, occupant or agent
of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal
service to cut or destroy weeds; provided, however, that if the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, such notice shall be sent by
certified, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the owner.
Such notice shall only be given once per calendar year.
   (b)   The notice to be given hereunder shall state:
      (1)   That the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property is in
violation of the city’s Weed Control Law;
      (2)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property is
ordered to cut or destroy the weeds within ten days of the receipt of the
notice;
      (3)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property may
request a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative
within five days of the receipt of the notice or, if the owner is unknown or a
nonresident, and there is no resident agent, ten days after notice has been
published by the City Clerk in the official city newspaper;
      (4)   That if the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property
does not cut or destroy the weeds or fails to request a hearing within the
allowed time the city or its authorized agent will cut or destroy the weeds and
assess the cost of the cutting or destroying the weeds, including a reasonable
administrative fee, against the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the
property;
      (5)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property will
be given an opportunity to pay the assessment, and if it is not paid within 30
days of such notice, it will be added to the property tax as a special
assessment;
      (6)   That no further notice will be given during the current calendar
year prior to the removal of weeds from the property; and
      (7)   That the public officer should be contacted if there are questions
regarding the order.
   (c)   If there is a change in the record owner of title to property
subsequent to the giving of notice pursuant to this subsection, the city may
not recover any costs or levy an assessment for the costs incurred by the
cutting or destruction of weeds on such property unless the new record owner of
title to such property is provided notice as required by this article.
(Ord. 4027, passed - -)
§ 8-404 ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (a)   If the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property has neither
alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor requested a hearing
within the time periods specified §
8-403 , the public officer or an authorized assistant may file a complaint in
the Municipal Court of the city against such person and, upon conviction of any
violation of the provisions of §
8-403 , such person may be fined in an amount not to exceed $100 or be
imprisoned not to exceed 30 days or both fined and imprisoned. Each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues after notice has been served shall
constitute an additional or separate offense. In addition to or as an
alternative to prosecution as above, provided the public officer or an
authorized agent may abate or remove the conditions causing the violations.
   (b)   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to this section,
the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section.
   (c)   The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or
abatement is not paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or
removal shall be collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and
amendments thereto, or shall be assessed as special assessments and charged
against the lot or parcel of land on which the nuisance was located and the
City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify the
unpaid portion of the costs and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the
tax rolls of the county against such lot or parcel of land and it shall be
collected by the County Treasurer and paid to the city as other city taxes are
collected and paid. The city may pursue collection both by levying a special
assessment and in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments
thereto, but only until the full cost and applicable interest has been paid in
full.
(K.S.A. 12-1617f) (Ord. 4027, passed - -; Ord. 4077, passed - -)
§ 8-405 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer, and the public officer’s authorized assistants,
employees, contracting agents or other representatives are hereby expressly
authorized to enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of cutting, destroying and/or removing such weeds in a manner not
inconsistent with this article.
(Ord. 4027, passed - -)
§ 8-406 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or to attempt to
prevent the public officer or the public .officer’s authorized representative
from entering upon any such lot or piece of ground or from proceeding with such
cutting and destruction. Such interference shall constitute an code violation.
(Ord. 4027, passed - -)
§ 8-407 NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall affect or impair the rights of the city
under the provisions of K.S.A. Ch. 2, Art. 13, relating to the control and
eradication of certain noxious weeds.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, the term NOXIOUS WEEDS shall mean
kudzu (Pueraria lobata), field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), hoary cress (Lepidium draba), Canada thistle
(Cirsium arvense), quackgrass (Agropyron repens), leafy spurge (Euphorbia
esula), burragweed (Franseria tomentosa and discolor), pignut (Hoffmannseggia
densiflora), musk (nodding) thistle (Carduus nutans L.) and Johnson grass
(Sorghum halepense).
(K.S.A. 2-1314) (Ord. 4027, passed - -)
ARTICLE 5: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
8-501   Title
   
8-502   General
   
8-503   Declaration of policy
   
8-504   Definitions
   
8-505   Duty of occupant or owner of occupied or unoccupied building and its
premises or vacant premises
   
8-506   Regulations for the use and occupancy of dwellings
   
8-507   Maintenance and repair; dwellings
   
8-508   Designation of unfit dwellings
   
8-509   Designation of blighted premises (residential and nonresidential)
   
8-510   Designation of blighted buildings and premises (nonresidential)
   
8-511   Inspection of buildings, structures and premises
   
8-512   Notice of violations; procedures
   
8-513   Public officer; authority
   
8-514   Governing body; authority
   
8-515   Order to correct and/or repair, remove or demolish
   
8-516   Demolition by public officer; procedure and costs
   
8-517   Conflict of laws; effect or partial invalidity
   
8-518   Governing body; appeals
   
8-519   Right of petition
§ 8-501 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Minimum Standard for Housing and
Premises Code”, and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
§ 8-502 GENERAL.
   Buildings used in whole or in part as a home or residence of a single family
or person and every building used in whole or in part as a home or residence of
two or more persons or families living in separate apartments and all premises,
either residential or nonresidential, shall conform to the requirements of this
code.
§ 8-503 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The governing body declares the purpose of this code is to protect, preserve
and promote the physical and mental health of the people; investigate and
control communicable diseases; regulate privately- and publicly-owned
structures or dwellings and all premises for the purpose of sanitation, public
health and general appearance; protect the safety of the people; and promote
the general welfare by legislation that shall be applicable to all dwellings,
structures and premises now in existence or hereafter constructed or developed
and which legislation:
   (a)   Establishes minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities for
light, ventilation and heating, for safety from fire, for the use and location
and amount of space for human occupancy, and for safe and sanitary maintenance;
   (b)   Establishes standards concerning unsightly and blighted buildings and
premises, both residential and nonresidential structures;
   (c)   Determines the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants;
and
   (d)   Provides for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-504 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
following definitions shall apply to the enforcement of this code.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partially underground, but having
less than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partially or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   DWELLING. Any building that is wholly or partially used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided, that temporary
housing hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used, or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   HABITABLE DWELLING. Any structure or part thereof that shall be used as a
home or place of abode by one or more persons.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room designed to be used for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking purposes, excluding bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls and storage
places, or other similar places, not used by persons for extended periods.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of insects, rodents
or other pests.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, owns or has control of a premises
or of a building or structure or part thereof, in which dwelling units or
rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation, who jointly or severally along with
others, shall be in actual possession of, or have charge, care and control of
any structure or dwelling unit or premises within the city as owner, employee
or agent of the owner, or as trustee or guardian of the estate or person of the
title holder, and such person shall be deemed and taken to be the owner or
owner of such property within the true intent and meaning of this code and
shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this article to the same extent
as the record owner and notice to any such person shall be deemed and taken to
be a good and sufficient notice as if such person or persons were actually the
record owner or owner of such property.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas or fuel pipes; gas or fuel burning equipment; water pipes; garbage disposal
units; waste pipes; water closets; sinks; installed dishwashers; lavatories;
bathtubs; shower baths; installed clothes-washing machines; catch basins;
drains; vents; and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer, gas or fuel lines.
   PREMISES. Any lot or land area, either residential or nonresidential, not
covered by a structure and which is subject to a city tax in part or in whole.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The person designated by the City Council.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of a dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   REFUSE. For the purpose of this article, REFUSE shall include garbage and
trash.
      (1)   GARBAGE. Any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable waste
matter that attends the preparation of, use of, cooking of, delivering of, or
storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable.
      (2)   TRASH (COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, COMBUSTIBLE
TRASH shall mean waste consisting of papers, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood and
excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding and leaves,
or any other combustible materials.
      (3)   TRASH (NON-COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, NON-
COMBUSTIBLE TRASH shall mean waste consisting of metals, tin cans, glass,
crockery, other mineral refuse and ashes and street rubbish and sweepings,
dirt, sand, concrete scrap or any other non-combustible material.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
something having a location on the ground.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter that is designed to be transportable and that is not attached to the
ground, house or building or another structure, or to any utilities system on
the same premises for more than 30 consecutive days, except when located in a
mobile home court duly licensed under laws of the city.
   WORDS, MEANINGS. Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”, “rooming
house”, “rooming unit”, “premises” are used in this article, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
§ 8-505 DUTY OF OCCUPANT OR OWNER OF OCCUPIED OR UNOCCUPIED BUILDING AND ITS
PREMISES OR VACANT PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner of every occupied or unoccupied
dwelling, building and premises, or vacant premises, including all yards, lawns
and courts to keep such property clean and free from any accumulation of filth,
rubbish, garbage or any similar matter as covered by §§
8-508 and
8-509.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of each occupant of a dwelling unit to keep in
clean condition the portion of the property that he or she occupies and of
which he or she has exclusive control, to comply with the rules and
regulations, and to place all garbage and refuse in proper containers. Where
care of the premises is not the responsibility of the occupant, then the owner
is responsible for violations of this code applicable to the premises.
   (c)   If receptacles are not provided by the owner, then the occupant shall
provide receptacles as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single-dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the unit primarily infested.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
vermin-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner and operator.
   (f)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
§ 8-506 REGULATIONS FOR THE USE AND OCCUPANCY OF DWELLINGS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping,
cooking or eating therein, that does not comply with the following
requirements.
   (b)   The following requirements are hereby declared essential to the health
and safety of the occupants of such dwelling or dwelling unit.
      (1)   Attached garages or non-dwelling areas. All non-dwelling
occupancies shall be separated from the dwelling unit by a fire-resistant wall
and if the dwelling and garage are covered by a common or connecting roof, then
the ceiling also must have a fire resistance rating of not less than one hour
as defined in the Building Code.
      (2)   Basement or cellar. The basement or cellar of any dwelling shall be
reasonably dry and ventilated and shall be kept free from rubbish accumulation.
      (3)   Basement dwelling units. The use of basements or cellars for
dwelling units is prohibited unless they comply with subsection (b)(18) below
governing ventilation, provided however, if occupied at the time of the passage
of this code and if it complies with all other provisions of this code, the
public officer may approve less than the required windows, if in his or her
opinion, the window area is not detrimental to the occupants.
      (4)   Bathing facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within a room
which affords privacy to a person in the room, a bathtub or shower in good
working condition and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
      (5)   Boarding and rooming houses. No room shall be used for sleeping
purposes unless the ceiling height is at least seven feet and there are at
least 400 cubic feet of air space for each occupant over six years of age. For
sleeping rooms with sloping ceilings, the ceiling height shall be at least
seven feet over at least 50% of the floor area.
         (A)   Bathing facilities shall be provided in the form of a tub or
shower for each eight occupants. Separate facilities shall be provided for each
sex and plainly marked.
         (B)   A flush water closet shall be provided for each six occupants
and shall be separated with the separate access from bathing facilities if more
than four occupants are served by each. Separate facilities shall be provided
for each sex and shall be plainly marked.
      (6)   Drainage. All courts, yards or other areas on the premises of any
dwelling shall be so graded and drained that there is no pooling of the water
thereon. Properly constructed wading and swimming pools and fish ponds are
excepted from this section.
      (7)   Entrances.
         (A)   There shall be for each dwelling unit a normally used separate
access either to a hallway, stairway or street that is safe and in good repair.
         (B)   A secondary exit to the ground shall be available in case of
fire through windows, porch roofs, ladders or any combination that is free of
hazard or egress.
      (8)   Floor area. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square
feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional
square feet of floor space for every additional occupant thereof. The floor
space shall be calculated on the basis of total habitable room area, inside
measurements. No floor space shall be included in determining habitable room
area over which the ceiling is less than seven feet above the floor for the
purpose of this subsection (b)(8).
      (9)   Garbage and trash receptacles. Every dwelling and every dwelling
unit shall be provided with such receptacles, not exceeding 32-gallon capacity,
as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash and such receptacles shall
at all times be maintained in good repair.
      (10)   Heating. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit shall be so
constructed, insulated and maintained and be provided by owner or occupant with
heating units so that it is capable of reaching an air temperature of 70°F
under ordinary winter conditions. The chimney of the dwelling or dwelling unit
shall be maintained in good order and the owner of the approved heating
equipment shall maintain it in good order and repair.
      (11)   Kitchen sink. In every dwelling unit containing two or more rooms,
there shall be at least one kitchen sink with public water under pressure and
connected to the public sewer, or if that sewer system is not available, to a
sewage disposal system approved by the City Health Department.
      (12)   Lavatory facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within its
walls a lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and located in the same room as the required
flush water closet or as near to the room as practicable.
      (13)   Lighting. Every habitable room shall have a ceiling electric
outlet and a duplex outlet in wall or floor, or at least two wall or floor
outlets.
      (14)   Lighting of toilets and bathrooms. Every toilet and every bathroom
in every dwelling shall have at least one electric light in either the ceiling
or on the wall.
      (15)   Plumbing. All plumbing, water closets and other plumbing fixtures
in every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be maintained in good working order.
      (16)   Privies. All pit privies, privy vaults, “dry hopper” sewer-
connected privies and frost-proof closets are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
      (17)   Toilet facilities. There shall be at least one flush water closet
in good working condition for each dwelling unit, which flush water closet
shall be located within the dwelling and in a room that affords privacy.
      (18)   Ventilation. Every habitable room in a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall contain a window or windows openable directly to the outside air and the
total area of such window or windows shall be not less than 5% of the floor
area of such room. An approved system of mechanical ventilation or air
conditioning may be used in lieu of openable windows. Such system shall be
capable of providing not less than four air changes per hour, except that in
toilet compartments such system shall provide a complete air change every five
minutes and be automatically put in operation when the toilet compartment light
is in the “on” position.
      (19)   Water heating facilities. Every dwelling shall have supplied water
heating facilities that are installed in an approved manner and are maintained
and operated in a safe and good working condition and are properly connected
with the hot water lines to the kitchen sink, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
      (20)   Windows and doors. Every window and exterior door shall be
reasonably weather-tight, lockable and rodent-proof and shall be kept in good
working condition and good repair.
§ 8-507 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR; DWELLINGS.
   Every dwelling and every part thereof shall be maintained in good repair by
the owner or agent and be fit for human habitation. The roof shall be
maintained so as not to leak and all rainwater shall be drained therefrom so as
not to cause dampness in the walls or ceilings. All floors, stairways, doors,
porches, windows, skylights, chimneys, toilets, sinks, walls and ceilings shall
be kept in good repair and usable condition.
§ 8-508 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and placarding of such unfit dwellings or dwelling units shall be carried out
in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Existence of conditions. The public officer may determine, or five
citizens may petition in writing, that any dwelling unit is unfit for human use
or habitation if he, she or they find that conditions exist in such structure
that are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the
occupants of such buildings or other residents of the neighborhood, or which
shall have a blighting influence on properties in the area.
   (b)   Conditions generally. Such conditions may include the following
without limitation:
      (1)   Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other
calamities.
      (2)   Lack of:
         (A)   Adequate ventilation;
         (B)   Light;
         (C)   Cleanliness; and
         (D)   Sanitary facilities.
      (3)   Dilapidation;
      (4)   Disrepair;
      (5)   Structural defects;
      (6)   Overcrowding;
      (7)   Inadequate ingress and egress;
      (8)   Unsightly appearance that constitute a blight to the adjoining
property, the neighborhood or the city; and
      (9)   Air pollution.
   (c)   Placarding; order to vacate. Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned
as unfit for human habitation, and so designated and placarded by the public
officer, shall be vacated within a reasonable time as so ordered.
   (d)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-512 are applicable hereto.
   (e)   Compliance required before re-occupancy. No dwelling or dwelling unit
that has been condemned and placarded as unfit for human habitation shall again
be used for human habitation until written approval is secured from, and such
placard is removed by the public officer.
      (1)   The public officer shall remove such placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to let, lease, occupy or permit the
occupancy, whether for a consideration or not, of any dwelling so posted and
any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within the
meaning of this code.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or remove the placard
from any dwelling or dwelling unit that has been condemned as unfit for human
habitation and placarded as such, except the public officer as herein provided,
and any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within
the meaning of this code.
§ 8-509 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED PREMISES (RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL).
   The designation of unsightly and blighted premises and elimination thereof
shall be carried out in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Public officer determinations. The public officer may determine, or
five citizens may petition in writing, that if the appearance of a premises is
not commensurate with the character of the properties in the neighborhood or
otherwise constitutes a blight to the adjoining property or the neighborhood or
the city for such reasons as, but not limited to:
      (1)   Dead trees or other unsightly natural growth;
      (2)   Unsightly stored or parked material, equipment, supplies,
machinery, trucks or automobiles or parts thereof; vermin infestation,
inadequate drainage; and
      (3)   Violation of any other law or regulations relating to the use of
land and the use and occupancy of the buildings and improvements.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-512 are applicable hereto.
§ 8-510 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED BUILDINGS AND PREMISES (NONRESIDENTIAL).
   (a)   Certain blighted conditions. Certain blighted conditions covered in §§
8-508 and
8-509 concerning buildings and premises that are on the tax roll of the city
are applicable to all nonresidential buildings and premises.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures of notification shall follow those
prescribed in §
8-512 .
§ 8-511 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND PREMISES.
   (a)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
code, the public officer or his or her authorized representative is hereby
authorized to make inspections to determine the condition, use and occupancy of
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and the premises upon which the same
are located. This requirement is applicable to existing dwellings or buildings.
   (b)   The public officer is not limited by the conditions in subsection (a)
above where new construction or vacant premises are involved and may make such
inspections at any appropriate time.
   (c)   The owner, operator and occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit and
rooming unit shall give the public officer, or his or her authorized
representative, during reasonable hours, free access to such dwelling, dwelling
unit and rooming unit, and its premises, for the purpose of such inspection,
examination and survey after identification by proper credentials.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling shall give the owner thereof, or his or
her authorized agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling, or its
premises, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this
code or with any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated, or any order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this code.
§ 8-512 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Informal discussion. Whenever the public officer or his or her
authorized representative determines that there has been a violation of any
provision of this code, the public officer will arrange with the alleged
violator for an informal discussion of violations, and whether repair and
correction is justified.
   (b)   Formal hearing. If a satisfactory solution to the violations either by
correction, demolition or removal is not forthcoming, then a legal notice of a
formal hearing will be issued according to the following procedures:
      (1)   Shall be in writing;
      (2)   Shall list the violations alleged to exist or to have been
committed;
      (3)   Shall provide a reasonable time, but not less than 30 days in any
event for the correction of the violations particularized;
      (4)   Shall be addressed to and served upon the owner of the property,
the operator of the dwelling and the occupant of the dwelling unit or the
rooming unit concerned, if the occupant is or may be responsible for violation;
      (5)   If one or more persons whom the notice is addressed cannot be found
or served after diligent effort to do so, service may be made upon such person
or persons by posting a notice in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling
affected by the notice, in which event the public officer or his or her
authorized representative shall include in the record a statement as to why
such posting was necessary; and
      (6)   Delivery shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service. If service is made by certified mail, the public officer
or his or her authorized representative shall include in the record a verified
statement giving details regarding the mailing.
§ 8-513 PUBLIC OFFICER; AUTHORITY.
   For the purpose of protecting the city against unsightly or blighted
premises, also the health, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of dwellings
or dwelling units, the public officer referred heretofore is hereby authorized,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, to enforce
provisions of this code and of other laws that regulate or set standards
affecting buildings and premises.
§ 8-514 GOVERNING BODY; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body is hereby authorized:
   (a)   To informally review all alleged violations as provided in §
8-512 (a) prior to notification prescribed in §
8-512 (b);
   (b)   To take action as prescribed in §
8-512 (b);
   (c)   To hear appeals if there is opposition to any order, requirement,
decision or determination by the public officer in enforcement of this code as
outlined in §
8-518 ; and
   (d)   Discretionary authority may be exercised in specific cases where
variance from the terms of the code as:
      (1)   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare of
inhabitants of the city;
      (2)   Is in harmony with the spirit of this code; and
      (3)   Where literal enforcement of the code will result in unnecessary
hardship.
§ 8-515 ORDER TO CORRECT AND/OR REPAIR, REMOVE OR DEMOLISH.
   At the time of the placarding and order to vacate specified by §
8-508 (c) hereof, the public officer shall also issue and cause to be served
upon the owner a notice advising of the option of removal or demolition in lieu
of correction and/or repair following the procedures as outlined in §
8-512 .
§ 8-516 DEMOLITION BY PUBLIC OFFICER; PROCEDURE AND COSTS.
   (a)   Failure to comply with the order under §
8-515 for the alteration or improvement of such structure, the public officer,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, may cause such
condemned structure to be removed or demolished and the premises improved to
eliminate the conditions outlined in §
8-509 .
   (b)   The cost of demolition by a public officer shall be a lien upon the
property upon which the cost was incurred and such lien, including as a part
thereof an allowance of his or her costs and necessary attorney’s fees, may be
foreclosed in judicial proceedings in the manner provided or authorized by law
for loans secured by liens on real property or shall be assessed as a special
assessment upon the lot or parcel of land on which the structure was located
and the City Clerk at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify
the unpaid portion of the aforesaid costs and the County Clerk shall extend the
same on the tax rolls against the lot or parcel of land.
   (c)   If the structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, he or
she shall offer for bids and sell the structure or the materials of such
structure. The proceeds of such sale shall be credited against the cost of the
removal or demolition and, if there is any balance remaining, it shall be paid
to the parties entitled thereto after deduction of costs or judicial
proceedings, if any, including the necessary attorney’s fees incurred therein,
as determined by the court, if involved.
§ 8-517 CONFLICT OF LAWS; EFFECT OR PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   (a)   Conflicts between the provisions of this code and with a provision of
any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or code of the city,
existing on the effective date of this article, the provision shall prevail
that establishes the higher standard.
   (b)   Conflicts between this article with a provision of any other ordinance
or code of the city existing on the effective date of this article that
establishes a lower standard, the provisions of this article shall be deemed to
prevail and such other laws or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to the
extent that they may be found in conflict with this code.
§ 8-518 GOVERNING BODY; APPEALS.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation considering themselves aggrieved by
the decision of the public officer and who desires to present a formal protest
to the governing body shall in writing, request a hearing before the governing
body within ten days after receiving notice of the decision from the public
officer, as provided in §
8-512 (b). Such protest and request for a hearing shall be filed with the
office of the City Clerk.
   (b)   Upon receipt of a protest and request for a hearing, the City Clerk
shall notify in writing the governing body of such appeal.
   (c)   The governing body shall, within 30 days of receipt of protest and
request for a hearing, determine a date for the hearing.
   (d)   Notice of the date for the hearing shall be sent to the appellant at
least ten days before the hearing.
   (e)   Except where an immediate hazard exists as described in §
4-612 of this code, the filing of a protest and request for a hearing before
the governing body as specified in subsection (a) above shall operate as a stay
of the enforcement of the public officer’s order until such time as the
governing body has reached a decision on the matter.
§ 8-519 RIGHT OF PETITION.
   After exhausting the remedy provided in §
8-518 , any person aggrieved by an order issued by the public officer and
approved by the governing body after a hearing on the matter may, within 30
days from the date that the order became final, petition the District Court of
the county in which the property is located to restrain the public officer from
carrying out the provisions of the order.
ARTICLE 6: RODENT CONTROL
Section
   
8-601   Definitions
   
8-602   Building maintenance
   
8-603   Notice to rat-stop; when city to do work
   
8-604   Failure to comply
   
8-605   Replace rat-stoppage
   
8-606   Notice to eradicate rats
   
8-607   Conditions conducive to harborage of rats
   
8-608   Inspections
§ 8-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted for
occupancy as a residence, the transaction of business, the rendering of
professional services, amusement, the display, sale or storage of goods, wares
or merchandise or the performance of work or labor, including office buildings,
public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants/workshops and all
other houses, sheds and other structures on the premises used for business
purposes.
   OCCUPANT. The person that has the use of, controls or occupies any business
building or any portion thereof, whether owner or tenant. In the case of vacant
business buildings or any vacant portion of a business building, the owner,
agent or other person having custody of the building shall have the
responsibilities of an OCCUPANT of a building.
   OWNER. The owner of any building or structure, whether individual, firm,
partnership or corporation.
   RAT HARBORAGE. Any condition which provides shelter or protection for rats,
thus favoring their multiplication and continued existence in, under or outside
a structure of any kind.
   RAT-STOPPAGE. A form of rat-proofing to prevent the ingress of rats into
buildings from the exterior or from one building to another, consisting
essentially of the closing of all openings in the exterior walls, ground or
first floors, basements, roofs and foundations, that may be reached by rats
from the ground by climbing or by burrowing, with material or equipment
impervious to rat-gnawing.
(Ord. 4018, passed - -)
§ 8-602 BUILDING MAINTENANCE.
   All buildings and structures located within the present or future boundaries
of the city shall be rat-stopped, freed of rats and maintained in a rat-stopped
and rat-free condition.
(Ord. 4018, passed - -)
§ 8-603 NOTICE TO RAT-STOP; WHEN CITY TO DO WORK.
   Upon receipt of written notice from the governing body, the owner of any
building or structure specified therein shall take immediate measures for the
rat-stoppage of such building or structure. The work shall be completed in the
time specified in the written notice, which shall be within 15 days, or within
the time of any written extension thereof that may have been granted by the
governing body.
(Ord. 4018, passed - -)
§ 8-604 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner fails to comply with such written notice or extension, then the
governing body is authorized to take such action as may be necessary to
completely rat-stop the building or structure at the expense of the owner, and
the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of the
building or structure. If the bills are not paid within 60 days, the City Clerk
shall certify the amount due to the City Treasurer and the charge shall be a
lien against the property where the work has been done, and the owner shall be
promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost of labor,
materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for rat-stoppage.
(Ord. 4018, passed - -)
§ 8-605 REPLACE RAT-STOPPAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any occupant, owner, contractor, public utility
company, plumber or any other person to remove the rat-stoppage from any
building or structure for any purpose and fail to restore the same in a
satisfactory condition or to make any new openings that are not closed or
sealed against the entrance of rats.
(Ord. 4018, passed - -)
§ 8-606 NOTICE TO ERADICATE RATS.
   Whenever the governing body notifies in writing the owner of any building or
structure theretofore rat-stopped as herein above defined, that there is
evidence of rat infestation of the building or structure, the owner shall
immediately institute appropriate measures for freeing the premises so occupied
of all rats. Unless suitable measures for freeing the building or structure of
rats are instituted within five days after the receipt of notice, and unless
continually maintained in a satisfactory manner, the city is hereby authorized
to free the building or structure of rats at the expense of the owner thereof
and the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of
the building or structure and if the same are not paid, the City Clerk shall
certify the amount due from the owner to the City Treasurer, and the owner
shall be promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost
of labor, materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for the
eradication measures.
(Ord. 4018, passed - -)
§ 8-607 CONDITIONS CONDUCIVE TO HARBORAGE OF RATS.
   (a)   All food and feed kept within the city for feeding animals shall be
kept and stored in rat-free and rat-proof containers, compartments or rooms
unless kept in a rat-stopped building.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, leave, dump or permit to
accumulate any garbage or trash in any building or premises so that the same
shall afford food and harborage for rats.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or to permit the
accumulation on any premises or on any open lot any lumber, boxes, barrels,
bricks, stone or similar materials that may be permitted to remain thereon and
which are rat harborages, unless the same shall be placed on open racks that
are elevated not less than 12 inches above the ground, evenly piled or stacked.
   (d)   Whenever conditions inside or under any building or structure provide
such extensive harborage for rats that the Health Department deems it necessary
to eliminate such harborage, he or she may require the owner to install
suitable cement floors in basements or to replace wooden first or ground floors
or require the owner to correct such other interior rat harborage as may be
necessary in order to facilitate the eradication of rats in a reasonable time
and thereby to reduce the cost of such eradication.
(Ord. 4018, passed - -)
§ 8-608 INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Inspector is empowered to make such inspections and re-
inspections of the interior and exterior of any building or structure as in his
or her opinion may be necessary to determine full compliance with this article.
(Ord. 4018, passed - -)
ARTICLE 7: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
8-701   Policy
   
8-702   Definitions
   
8-703   Unlawful practice
   
8-704   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
8-705   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
8-706   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
8-707   Exemption
   
8-708   Administration
   
8-709   Education and conciliation
   
8-710   Enforcement
   
8-711   Investigations; subpoenas; giving of evidence
   
8-712   Enforcement by private persons
   
8-713   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
8-714   Separability of provisions
   
8-715   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
§ 8-701 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-702 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
8-704 through
8-706.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
of designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-703 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) and §
8-707 , the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of
housing set forth in §
8-703 shall apply to:
   (a)   All dwellings, except as exempted by subsection (b);
   (b)   Nothing in §
8-704 shall apply for:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection (b) shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided
further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of, more than three such single-family houses at any
one time; provided further, that the sale or rental of any such single-family,
house shall be excepted from the application of this title only if such house
is sold or rented:
      (A)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or
the sale of rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or
of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesperson or person; and
      (B)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
8-704 (e) of this article, but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (c)   For the purposes of subsection (b), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence in providing
sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-704 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
8-703 and except as exempted by §§
8-703 (b) and
8-707, it shall be unlawful:
   (a)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion or national
origin;
   (b)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion or
national origin;
   (c)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (d)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available; and
   (e)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion
or national origin.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-705 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in while or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
financial assistance, because of the race, color, religion or national origin
of such person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with
such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other
financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given; provided, that nothing
contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the
exception contained in §
8-703 (b).
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-706 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple- listing service, real estate brokers
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion or national origin.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-707 EXEMPTION.
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons; unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin.
   (b)   Nor shall anything in this article prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-708 ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   The authority and responsibility for administering this act shall be
in the chief executive officer of the city.
   (b)   The chief executive officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties and powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties and powers with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, order, certifying, reporting or otherwise
acting as to any work, business or matter under this article. The chief
executive officer shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the
decisions of his or her hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to
their officers in the city, to boards of officers or to himself or herself, as
shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (c)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this article and shall cooperate with
the chief executive officer to further such purposes.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-709 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this article, the chief executive officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this article. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the
housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the
provisions of this article and his or her suggested means of implementing it,
and shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary
compliance and of enforcement.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-710 ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter person
aggrieved) may file a complaint with the chief executive officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the chief executive officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
chief executive officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or about to commit the alleged discriminatory
housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving, a complaint, or within 30
days after the expiration of any period of reference under subsection (c), the
chief executive office shall investigate the complaint and give notice in
writing to the person, aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve it. If
the chief executive officer decides to resolve the complaints, he or she shall
proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing
practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion.
Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made
public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this article
without the written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of the chief
executive officer who shall make public any information in violation of this
provision shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year.
   (b)   A complaint under subsection (a) shall be filed within 180 days after
the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be in
writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and with the leave of the chief executive officer, which
shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend
his or her answer at anytime. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (c)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the chief executive
officer, the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this article, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. The chief executive officer will assist in this filing.
   (d)   If the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the persons aggrieved may, within
30 days hereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this article, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred, or is
about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (e)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (f)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
chief executive officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-711 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (a)   In conducting an investigation the chief executive officer shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and
other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy
such materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons
as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided
however, that the chief executive officer first complies with the provisions of
the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The chief
executive officer may issue subpoenas to compel his or her access to or the
production of such materials, or the appearance of such persons, and may issue
interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place. The chief executive
officer may administer oaths.
   (b)   Upon written application to the chief executive officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the chief executive officer tot he same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued by the chief executive officer. Subpoenas
issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their face the name and
address of such respondent and shall state that they were issued at his or her
request.
   (c)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the chief executive officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (d)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the chief executive officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The chief executive officer shall grant the petition if he or she
finds that the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable
time or place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to
any matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous or for other good reason.
   (e)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the chief
executive officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which
the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts
business.
   (f)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the chief executive officer shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby
to mislead the chief executive officer, shall make or cause to be made any
false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record or other
document submitted to the chief executive officer pursuant to his or her
subpoena or other order, or shall will fully neglect or fail to make or causes
to be made full, true and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records or
other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter or by any other means
falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
   (g)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the chief
executive officer participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this
article.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-712 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (a)   The rights granted by §§
8-703 through
8-706 may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice, occurred; provided however, that the
court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
8-710 (d) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the chief executive officer are likely to
result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice
complained of in the complaint made to the chief executive officer and which
practice forms the basis for the action in court; and provided, however, that
any sale, encumbrance or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court
order issued under the authority of this article, and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant without actual notice of the existence of the
filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of this article
shall not be affected.
   (b)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of
a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the plaintiff in the opinion of the
court is not financially able to assume the attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-713 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
8-703 through
8-706. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-714 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this article or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the article and the application
of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
§ 8-715 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (a)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion or national
origin and because he or she is or has been selling, purchasing, renting,
financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase,
rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or
participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the business
of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (b)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations
or facilities described in subsection (a); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (c)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in subsection (a), or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more
than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 3431, passed - -)
ARTICLE 8: LOUD SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS
Section
   
8-801   Loud sound amplification systems in vehicles prohibited
   
8-802   Same; permit required
§ 8-801 LOUD SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS IN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a street, highway,
alley, parking lot or driveway, whether public or private property, shall
operate or permit the operation of any sound amplification system from within
the vehicle so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 50 or more
feet from the vehicle.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound produced by a sound amplification system from
within the vehicle, which clearly can be heard at a distance of 50 feet or
more. Measurement standards shall be by the auditory senses, based on direct
line of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible and base reverberations
are included. The motor vehicle may be stopped, standing, parked or moving on a
street, highway, alley, parking lot or driveway, on either public or private
property.
      SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any radio, tape player, compact disc player,
loud speaker or other electronic device used for the amplification of sound.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
operator was not otherwise prohibited by law from operating the sound
amplification system, and that any of the following apply:
      (1)   The system was being operated to request medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of a hazardous road condition;
      (2)   The vehicle was an emergency or public safety vehicle;
      (3)   The vehicle was owned and operated by the city or a gas, electric,
communications or refuse company; or
      (4)   The system or vehicle was used in authorized public activities,
such as parades, fireworks, sports events, musical productions and other
activities which have the approval of the governing body or a department of the
city authorized to grant such approval.
(Ord. 3723, passed - -)
§ 8-802 SAME; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Permit required for use of loud speakers and sound amplifiers.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play, use or operate on the
streets, alleys or public grounds of the city any instrument known as a loud
speaker or sound amplifier, without first procuring a permit therefor from the
Director of Public Works. Such permit shall be granted or refused at the
discretion of the direction of Public Works.
   (b)   Violation of this section is a Class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3723, passed - -)
ARTICLE 9: INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
Section
   
8-901   Scope and application
   
8-902   Lien created
   
8-903   Same; emcumbrances
   
8-904   Same; pro rata basis
   
8-905   Procedure
   
8-906   Fund created; deposit of moneys
   
8-907   Building Inspector; investigation removal of structure
   
8-908   Removal of structure; excess moneys
   
8-909   Same; disposition of funds
   
8-910   Effect upon insurance policies
   
8-911   Insurers; liability
§ 8-901 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   The city is hereby authorized to utilize the procedures established by
K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., whereby no insurance company shall pay a claim of a
named insured for loss or damage to any building or other structure located
within the city, arising out of any fire, explosion or windstorm, where the
amount recoverable for the loss or damage to the building or other structure
under all policies is in excess of 75% of the face value of the policy covering
such building or other insured structure, unless there is compliance with the
procedures set out in this article.
(Ord. 3949, passed 10-23-2000)
§ 8-902 LIEN CREATED.
   The governing body of the city hereby creates a lien in favor of the city on
the proceeds of any insurance policy based upon a covered claim payment made
for damage or loss to a building or other structure located within the city,
caused by or arising out of any fire, explosion or windstorm, where the amount
recoverable for all the loss or damage to the building or other structure under
all policies is in excess of 75% of the face value of the policy(s) covering
such building or other insured structure. The lien arises upon any unpaid tax,
special ad valorem levy, or any other property, whether or not evidenced by
written instrument, or such tax, levy, assessment, expense or other charge that
has remained undischarged for at least one year prior to the filing of a proof
of loss.
(Ord. 3949, passed 10-23-2000)
§ 8-903 SAME; EMCUMBRANCES.
   (a)   Prior to final settlement on any claim covered by §
8-902 , the insurer or insurers shall contact the County Treasurer to determine
whether any such encumbrances are presently in existence.
   (b)   If the same are found to exist, the insurer or insurers shall execute
and transmit in an amount equal to that owing under the encumbrances a draft
payable to the “County Treasurer, Greenwood County, Kansas”.
(Ord. 3949, passed 10-23-2000)
§ 8-904 SAME; PRO RATA BASIS.
   Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all insurance
companies insuring the building or other structure.
(Ord. 3949, passed 10-23-2000)
§ 8-905 PROCEDURE.
   (a)   When final settlement on a covered claim has been agreed to or arrived
at between the named insured or insureds and the company or companies, and the
final settlement exceeds 75% of the face value of the property covering any
building or other insured structure, and when all amounts due the holder of a
first real estate mortgage against the building or other structure, pursuant to
the terms of the policy and endorsements thereto, shall have been paid, the
insurance company or companies shall execute a draft payable to the City
Treasurer in an amount equal to the sum of 15% of the covered claim payment
unless the Chief Building Inspector of the city has issued a certificate to the
insurance company or companies that the insured has removed the damaged
building or other structure, as well as all associated debris, or repaired,
rebuilt or otherwise made the premises safe and secure.
   (b)   (1)   Such transfer of funds shall be on a pro rata basis by all
companies insuring the building or other structure.
      (2)   Policy proceeds remaining after the transfer to the city shall be
disbursed in accordance with the policy terms.
   (c)   Upon the transfer of the funds as required by subsection (a) of this
section, the insurance company shall provide the city with the name and address
of the named insured or insureds, the total insurance coverage applicable to
said building or other structure, and the amount of the final settlement agreed
to or arrived at between the insurance company or companies and the insured or
insureds, whereupon the Chief Building Inspector shall contact the named
insured or insureds by registered mail, notifying them that said insurance
proceeds have been received by the city and apprise them of the procedures to
be followed under this article.
(Ord. 3949, passed 10-23-2000)
§ 8-906 FUND CREATED; DEPOSIT OF MONEYS.
   The City Treasurer is hereby authorized and shall create a fund to be known
as the “Insurance Proceeds Fund”. All moneys received by the City Treasurer as
provided for by this article shall be placed in said fund and deposited in an
interest-bearing account.
(Ord. 3949, passed 10-23-2000)
§ 8-907 BUILDING INSPECTOR; INVESTIGATION REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE.
   (a)   Upon receipt of moneys as provided for by this article, the City
Treasurer shall immediately notify the Chief Building Inspector of said
receipt, and transmit all documentation received from the insurance company or
companies to the Chief Building Inspector.
   (b)   Within 20 days of the receipt of said moneys, the Chief Building
Inspector shall determine, after prior investigation, whether the city shall
instigate proceeding under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (c)   Prior to the expiration of the 20 days established by subsection (b)
of this section, the Chief Building Inspector shall notify the City Treasurer
whether he or she intends to initiate proceeding under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq.,
as amended.
   (d)   If the Chief Building Inspector has determined that proceeding under
K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as amended shall be initiated, he or she will do so
immediately but no later than 30 days after receipts of the moneys by the City
Treasurer.
   (e)   Upon notification to the City Treasurer by the Chief Building
Inspector that no proceeding shall be initiated under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq.,
as amended, the City Treasurer shall return all such moneys received, plus
accrued interest, to the insured or insureds as identified in the communication
from the insurance company or companies. Such return shall be accomplished
within 30 days of the receipt of the moneys from the insurance company or
companies.
(Ord. 3949, passed 10-23-2000)
§ 8-908 REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE; EXCESS MONEYS.
   If the Chief Building Inspector has proceeded under the provisions of K.S.A.
12-1750 et seq., as amended, all moneys in excess of that which is ultimately
necessary to comply with the provisions for the removal of the building or
structure, less salvage value, if any, shall be paid to the insured.
(Ord. 3949, passed 10-23-2000)
§ 8-909 SAME; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   If the Chief Building Inspector, with regard to a building or other
structure damaged by fire, explosion or windstorm, determines that it is
necessary to act under K.S.A. 12-1756, any proceeds received by the City
Treasurer under the authority of §
8-905 (a) relating to that building or other structure shall be used to
reimburse the city for any expense incurred by the city in proceeding under
K.S.A. 12-1756. Upon reimbursement from the insurance proceeds, the Chief
Building Inspector shall immediately effect the release of the lien resulting
therefrom. Should the expenses incurred by the city exceed the insurance
proceeds paid over to the City Treasurer under §
8-905 (a), the Chief Building Inspector shall publish a new lien as authorized
by K.S.A. 12-1756, in an amount equal to such excess expenses incurred.
(Ord. 3949, passed 10-23-2000)
§ 8-910 EFFECT UPON INSURANCE POLICIES.
   This article shall not make the city a party to any insurance contract, nor
is the insurer liable to any party for any amount in excess of the proceeds
otherwise payable under its insurance policy.
(Ord. 3949, passed 10-23-2000)
§ 8-911 INSURERS; LIABILITY.
   Insurers complying with this article or attempting in good faith to comply
with this article shall be immune from civil and criminal liability and such
action shall not be deemed in violation of K.S.A. 40-2404 and any amendments
thereto, including withholding payment of any insurance proceeds pursuant to
this article, or releasing or disclosing any information pursuant to this
article.
(Ord. 3949, passed 10-23-2000)
CHAPTER IX: MUNICIPAL COURT
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
9-101   Municipal Court established
   
9-102   Same; practice and procedure
   
9-103   Time and place of sessions
   
9-104   Municipal Judge; appointment
   
9-105   Same; absence; vacancy; pro tem
   
9-106   Same; powers and duties
   
9-107   Same; salary
   
9-108   Court Clerk
   
9-109   Payment of fine
   
9-110   Same; failure to pay separate violation
   
9-111   Failure to appear
   
9-112   Court costs
   
9-113   Definitions
   
9-114   Complaints; issuance of warrant and refusal to issue
§ 9-101 MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   There is hereby established a Municipal Court for the city.
   (b)   The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine
cases involving violations of the ordinances of the city.
§ 9-102 SAME; PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE.
   The State Code of Procedure for Municipal Courts, as set forth in K.S.A. 12-
4101 et seq., and all acts amendatory or supplemental thereto, shall govern the
practice and procedure in all Municipal Court cases.
§ 9-103 TIME AND PLACE OF SESSIONS.
   The Municipal Court shall be held at the place or location on such days and
at such hours as the Municipal Judge designates.
(Ord. 4315, passed 4-24-2023)
§ 9-104 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; APPOINTMENT.
   The Municipal Court shall be presided over by a Municipal Judge. The Mayor,
subject to the approval of the City Council, shall appoint the Judge of the
Municipal Court.
§ 9-105 SAME; ABSENCE; VACANCY; PRO TEM.
   (a)   In the event the Municipal Judge is temporarily unable to preside due
to absence, illness or disqualification, the Municipal Judge shall designate an
attorney or other qualified person to act as Judge Pro Tempore. In the event
the Municipal Judge fails to appoint a Judge Pro Tempore, the Judge Pro Tempore
shall be appointed in the same manner as the Municipal Judge is selected. The
Judge Pro Tempore shall receive compensation as shall be provided by ordinance,
payable in the same manner as the compensation of the regular Municipal Judge.
   (b)   In the event a vacancy shall occur in the office of Municipal Judge, a
successor shall be appointed to fill the unexpired term in the same manner as
the Municipal Judge was appointed.
(K.S.A. 12-4107)
§ 9-106 SAME; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Municipal Judge shall have such powers and duties as set forth in the
State Code of Procedure for Municipal Courts (K.S.A. 12-4101 et seq.) and all
acts amendatory or supplemental thereto.
(Ord. 2543, passed - -)
§ 9-107 SAME; SALARY.
   The Municipal Judge shall receive a salary as shall be fixed by ordinance.
§ 9-108 COURT CLERK.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Office of the Clerk of the Municipal
Court of the city, which office shall be filled by appointment by the Municipal
Judge of the Municipal Court.
   (b)   The duties of the office shall be those prescribed by the Code for
Municipal Courts set forth in K.S.A. Ch. 12, Art. 41, and shall include the
following duties.
      (1)   The Clerk shall issue all processes of the Court; administer oaths;
file and preserve all papers, and docket cases; and set same for trial and
shall perform such further acts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and
responsibilities of the Court. The Clerk shall receive, account for and pay to
the City Treasurer monthly all fines and forfeited bonds paid into the Court.
The Clerk shall make reports to the Judicial Administrator and furnish the
information when requested by him, her or a departmental justice on such forms
furnished by the Judicial Administrator, and approved by the Supreme Court.
      (2)   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall within ten days after
selection and before entering upon the duties of office, execute to the city
such bond as the governing body may require, which shall be approved by the
governing body, and file in the office of the City Clerk, conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties required of him or her by law, and for the
faithful application and payment of all monies that may come into his or her
hands in the execution of the duties of the office. The city shall pay the cost
of such bond.
      (3)   The monthly salary of the Clerk shall be fixed by ordinance.
      (4)   A majority of all members of the Council may remove the Clerk
appointed under the authority of this article, or for good cause the Mayor may
temporarily suspend any such appointed Clerk.
(K.S.A. 12-4108)
§ 9-109 PAYMENT OF FINE.
   Where a Municipal Court judgment against any person results in a fine and/or
court costs only, the same shall be satisfied by paying the amount of such fine
and/or court costs to the Municipal Court immediately on the rendition of
judgment, or at such time as the Municipal Judge shall determine.
§ 9-110 SAME; FAILURE TO PAY SEPARATE VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail to pay any lawfully
imposed fine for a violation of any law of the city within the time authorized
by the Court and without lawful excuse having been presented to the Court on or
before the date the fine is due. Such conduct constitutes a violation of this
article, regardless of the full payment of the fine after such time.
§ 9-111 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person charged with violation of any law
of the city to fail to appear before the Municipal Court when so scheduled to
appear, unless lawful excuse for absence is presented to the Court on or before
the time and date scheduled for appearance.
   (b)   For the purpose of subsection (a) above, failure to appear shall
include willfully incurring a forfeiture of an appearance bond and failure to
surrender oneself within 30 days following the date of such forfeiture by one
who is charged with a violation of the laws of the city and has been released
on bond for appearance before the Municipal Court for trial or other proceeding
prior to conviction, or willfully incurring a forfeiture of an appearance bond
and failing to surrender oneself within 30 days after his or her conviction of
a violation of the laws of the city has become final by one who has been
released on an appearance bond by any court of this state.
   (c)   Any person who is released upon his or her own recognizance, without
surety, or who fails to appear in response to a summons, notice to appear or
traffic citation duly served upon him or her personally shall be deemed a
person released on bond for appearance within the meaning of subsection (b)
above.
   (d)   Failure to appear, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by
incarceration for up to 30 days and/or a fine of up to $250.
§ 9-112 COURT COSTS.
   (a)   The city, a municipal corporation of the second class, by virtue of
the power invested in it by Art. 12, § 5, of the Constitution of the state,
hereby elects to exempt itself from the provisions of K.S.A. 12-4112 in as much
as said statute prohibits the collection of costs for the administration of
justice in municipal courts. Remaining portion of K.S.A. 12-4112, in as much as
it allows for the collection of witness fees and mileage, shall not be affected
by the passage of this section.
   (b)   Court costs. There shall be an $90.50 assessment taxed to each case
filed in the Municipal Court of the city, payable by the defendant, if
convicted, in addition to all witness fees and mileage as authorized under
K.S.A. 12-4411. Said assessment shall be designated as court costs and shall be
in addition to any fine, order or restitution as may be imposed by the
Municipal Court Judge.
(Charter Ord. 20, passed 10-22-2007; Charter Ord. 22, passed 1-11-2016; Charter
Ord. 28, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 9-113 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCUSED PERSON. A person, corporation or other legal entity accused by a
complaint of the violation of a city ordinance.
   APPEARANCE BOND. An undertaking, with or without security, entered into by a
person in custody by which the person is bound to comply with the conditions of
the undertaking.
   ARRAIGNMENT. The formal act of calling the person accused of violating an
ordinance before the municipal court to inform the person of the offense with
which the person is charged, to ask the person whether the person is guilty or
not guilty and, if guilty, to impose sentence.
   ARREST. The taking of a person into custody in order that the person will
appear to answer for the violation of an ordinance. The giving of a notice to
appear is not an ARREST.
   BAIL. The security given for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the
terms of an appearance bond.
   CITY ATTORNEY. Any attorney who represents the city in the prosecution of an
accused person for the violation of a city ordinance.
   COMPLAINT. A written statement of the essential facts constituting a
violation of an ordinance signed by the complainant.
   CUSTODY. The restraint of a person pursuant to an arrest.
   DETENTION. The temporary restraint of a person by a law enforcement officer.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person who by virtue of office or public
employment is vested by law with a duty to maintain public order and to make
arrests for violation of the laws of the state or ordinances of any
municipality thereof.
   NOTICE TO APPEAR. A written notice to a person accused by a complaint of
having violated an ordinance of a city to appear at a stated time and place to
answer to the charge of the complaint.
   ORDINANCE CIGARETTE OR TOBACCO INFRACTION. A violation of an ordinance that
proscribes the same behavior as proscribed by subsection (m) or (n) of K.S.A.
79-3321 and amendments thereto.
   ORDINANCE TRAFFIC INFRACTION. A violation of an ordinance that proscribes or
requires the same behavior as that proscribed or required by a statutory that
is classified as a traffic infraction in K.S.A. 8-2118 and amendments thereto.
   SUBPOENA. A process issued by the Court to cause a witness to appear and
give testimony at a time place therein specified.
   WARRANT. A written order made by a Municipal Judge directed to any law
enforcement officer commanding the officer to arrest the person named or
described in it.
(Ord. 4095, passed 1-28-2008)
§ 9-114 COMPLAINTS; ISSUANCE OF WARRANT AND REFUSAL TO ISSUE.
   (a)   A copy of the complaint shall be served, together with a notice to
appear or a warrant, by a law enforcement officer or such other person as may
be designated by the Mayor and/or City Administrator, upon the accused person,
and forthwith, the complaint shall be filed with the Municipal Court; except
that, a complaint may be filed initially with the Municipal Court, and if to
filed, a copy of the complaint shall forthwith be delivered to the City
Attorney. The City Attorney, or his or her designee, shall cause a notice to
appear to be issued, unless he or she has good reason to believe that the
accused person will not appear in response to a notice to appear, in which case
the City Attorney may request that a warrant be issued. Such warrant will be
issued if the complaint is positively sworn to and the Municipal Judge has
probable cause to believe that:
      (1)   There has been the commission of a violation of a municipal
ordinance;
      (2)   The accused person committed such violation; and
      (3)   The accused person will not appear in response to a notice to
appear.
   (b)   If a City Attorney fails either to cause a notice to appear or to
request a warrant to be issued, on a complaint initially filed with the
Municipal Court, the Municipal Judge may, upon affidavits filed with him or her
alleging the violation of the ordinance, order the city prosecutor to institute
proceedings against any person. Any such Municipal Judge shall be disqualified
from sitting in any case wherein such order was entered and is further
prohibited from communicating about such case with the Municipal Judge pro tem
appointed by the Municipal Judge to preside therein.
(Ord. 4096, passed 1-28-2008)
CHAPTER X: POLICE
   Article
      
1.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   PROPERTY IN POLICE CUSTODY
      
3.   POLICE FEES
ARTICLE 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
10-101   Police Department
   
10-102   Law enforcement personnel; general duties
   
10-103   Rules and regulations
§ 10-101 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The law enforcement department shall consist of the Greenwood County
Sheriff’s Department.
§ 10-102 LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL; GENERAL DUTIES.
   (a)   It shall be the general duty of the Chief of Police and all sworn law
enforcement personnel to the best of their ability to preserve good order,
peace and quiet throughout the city as provided by law or ordinance.
   (b)   The Chief of Police and all sworn law enforcement personnel shall at
all times have power to make arrest under proper process or without process on
view of any offense against the laws of the state or laws of the city and to
keep all persons so arrested, unless admitted to bail, in the city jail, county
jail or other proper place to prevent their escape until their trial can be had
before the proper officer.
   (c)   All persons arrested for violation of any law of the state and who
shall not be charged with an offense under any law of the city shall be
released to the custody of the Sheriff of the county and such arrest shall be
reported to the County Attorney.
§ 10-103 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall have power to make such rules and regulations as
may be necessary for the proper and efficient conduct of the Department. Such
rules and regulations shall be approved by the governing body.
ARTICLE 2: PROPERTY IN POLICE CUSTODY
Section
   
10-201   Regulations
   
10-202   Disposition
   
10-203   Same; exempt property
   
10-204   Claiming property
   
10-205   Proof of ownership
   
10-206   Auction
§ 10-201 REGULATIONS.
   The Police Department is required to establish regulations detailing the
collection, storage and inventory of property that may come under its control
by any manner.
§ 10-202 DISPOSITION.
   Any property which has been acquired or turned over to the Police Department
and has been classified in accordance with procedures existing in the Police
Department as unclaimed or for which the proper owner cannot be ascertained
shall be kept for a minimum of 90 days. After a period of 90 days, such
property, except as provided in § 10-203 , shall be sold at public auction to
the highest bidder and the proceeds after expenses shall be paid to the City
General Fund.
§ 10-203 SAME; EXEMPT PROPERTY.
   The following classes of property shall be considered exceptions to §
10-202 and shall be dealt with in the following manner.
   (a)   Cash money shall be turned over to the City General Fund unless it
shall be determined to have collector’s value, in which case it shall be
auctioned according to the provisions in §
10-202 .
   (b)   Except as provided in subsections (c) and (d) below, any weapon or
ammunition, in the discretion of the court having jurisdiction of the property,
shall be:
      (1)   Forfeited to the law enforcement agency seizing the weapon for use
within such agency, for sale to a properly licensed federal firearms dealer,
for trading to a properly licensed federal firearms dealer, for trading to a
properly licensed federal firearms dealer for other new or used firearms or
accessories for use within such agency, or for trading to another law
enforcement agency for that agency’s use;
      (2)   Forfeited to the State Bureau of Investigation for law enforcement,
testing or comparison by the State Bureau of Investigation forensic laboratory;
      (3)   Forfeited to a county regional forensic science center, or other
county forensic laboratory for testing, comparison or other forensic science
purposes; or
      (4)   Forfeited to the state’s Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism
for use pursuant to the conditions set forth in K.S.A. 32-1047, and amendments
thereto.
   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (d) below, any weapon which cannot be
forfeited pursuant to subsection (b) above due to the condition of the weapon,
shall be destroyed.
   (d)   If a weapon is seized from an individual and the individual is not
convicted of the violation for which the weapon was seized, then within 30 days
after the declination or conclusion of prosecution the case against the
individual, including any period of appeal, the law enforcement agency that
seized the weapon shall verify that the weapon is not stolen, and upon such
verification shall notify the person from whom it was seized that the weapon
may be retrieved. Such notification shall include the location where such
weapon may be retrieved.
   (e)   If weapons are sold as authorized by subsection (b) above, the
proceeds of the sale shall be credited to the Asset Seizure and Forfeiture Fund
of the seizing agency.
   (f)   For purposes of subsections (b), (c) and (d) above, the term WEAPON
means any:
      (1)   Bludgeon, sand club, metal knuckle or throwing star;
      (2)   Dagger, dirk, billy, blackjack, slungshot, dangerous knife,
straight-edged razor, stiletto or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instrument of like character;
      (3)   Spring gun; or
      (4)   Firearm.
   (g)   Homemade weapons or weapons of a contraband nature shall be destroyed.
   (h)   Any items determined to be contraband such as explosives, narcotics
and the like shall be destroyed.
   (i)   Items of a pharmaceutical nature, which, while not contraband when
properly dispensed, or which are of an over-the-counter-variety, shall be
destroyed.
   (j)   Foodstuffs, if sealed and undamaged may be turned over to any
appropriate social service agency or destroyed, but shall not be auctioned.
   (k)   Alcohol products such as beer, wine, whiskey and the like shall be
destroyed.
   (l)   Items with a value in excess of $500 may be sold after advertising
said item in a general circulation newspaper on at least two occasions. Such
sales shall be by closed bid.
(K.S.A. 22-2512)
§ 10-204 CLAIMING PROPERTY.
   The Police Department shall be required to make reasonable attempts to
locate the owner of any property in storage, however, the responsibility for
claiming and identifying any such property shall rest solely with the owner.
§ 10-205 PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   Claimants to any property in police storage shall be required to present
reasonable proof of ownership and no property shall be released unless such
reasonable proof is presented.
§ 10-206 AUCTION.
   At such time as it has been determined that an auction is necessary to
dispose of unclaimed property, an inventory listing all property to be disposed
of shall be prepared and kept on file in the Police Department. Notice of an
auction shall be published at least twice in a general circulation newspaper
before the date of the auction. The notice shall specify the date, time and
place of the auction and shall also notify prospective buyers or potential
claimants that a list of items to be auctioned is available at the Police
Department and any claims on property must be made before the start of the
auction.
ARTICLE 3: POLICE FEES
Section
   
10-301   Definitions
   
10-302   Initial police responses to parties, gatherings or events
   
10-303   Subsequent police responses to parties, gatherings or events;
liability
   
10-304   Cost; collection
§ 10-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOST. The person who owns or is in possession of the property where the
party, gathering or event takes place, or the person in charge of the premises,
or the person who organized the event. If the HOST is a minor, then the parents
or guardians of that minor will be jointly and severally liable for the fee
incurred for police services.
   PARTY, GATHERING or EVENT. An event involving a group of persons who have
assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or for a social activity.
   POLICE SERVICES FEE. The cost to the city of any special security
assignment, including, but not limited to, salaries of police officers while
responding to or remaining at the party, gathering or event; the pro rata cost
of equipment; the cost of repairing city equipment and property; the cost of
any medical treatment of injured police officers; and the cost of reasonable
attorney’s fees.
   SPECIAL SECURITY ASSIGNMENT. The assignment of police officers, services and
equipment during a second or subsequent response to the party, gathering or
event after the delivery of a written notice to the host that a fee may be
imposed for costs incurred by the city for any subsequent police response.
§ 10-302 INITIAL POLICE RESPONSES TO PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS.
   When any police officer responds to any party, gathering or event and that
police officer determines there is a threat to the public peace, health, safety
or general welfare, the police officer shall issue a written notice to the host
or hosts that a subsequent response to that same location or address within 24
hours of the first response shall be deemed a special security assignment
rendered to provide security and order on behalf of the party, gathering or
event and that the host may be liable for a police services fee as defined in
this article.
§ 10-303 SUBSEQUENT POLICE RESPONSES TO PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS;
LIABILITY.
   (a)   If, after a written notice is issued pursuant to §
10-302 , a subsequent police response or responses is necessary to the same
location or address within 24 hours of the first response, such response or
responses shall be deemed a special security assignment. Persons previously
warned shall be jointly and severally liable for a police services fee as
defined in this article.
   (b)   The amount of the fee shall be a debt owed to the city by the person
or person warned, and if he or she is a minor, his or her parents or guardians
shall be jointly and severally liable for the debt.
§ 10-304 COST; COLLECTION.
   The Chief of Police shall notify the City Treasurer in writing of the
performance of a special security assignment, of the name and address of the
responsible person or persons, the date and time of the incident, the services
performed, the costs and such other information as may be required. The City
Treasurer shall thereafter cause appropriate billings to be made.
CHAPTER XI: PUBLIC OFFENSES
   Article
      
1.   UNIFORM OFFENSES CODE
      
2.   LOCAL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1: UNIFORM OFFENSES CODE
Section
   
11-101   Incorporating Uniform Public Offense Code
§ 11-101 INCORPORATING UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating
public offenses within the corporate limits of the city that certain code known
as the “Uniform Public Offense Code,” Edition of 2025, prepared and published
in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas. No fewer
than three copies of said Uniform Public Offense Code shall be marked or
stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 4343,” and to which shall be
attached a copy of the ordinance codified herein, and filed with the City Clerk
to be open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 4254, passed 8-12-2019; Ord. 4343, passed 8-25-2025)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-201   Curfew; age; hours; exceptions
   
11-202   Storage on public property
   
11-203   Automobile sales or service on public property
   
11-204   Window peeping
   
11-205   Controlled substances
   
11-206   Drug paraphernalia
§ 11-201 CURFEW; AGE; HOURS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Age; hours. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18
years to be on any street, alley, public property or in places to which the
public is admitted during the following hours:
      (1)   September through May of each year, Sunday through Thursday of each
week, between the hours of 11:00 p.m., and the following sunrise and on Friday
and Saturday of each week, between 12:00 midnight and the following sunrise;
and
      (2)   June, July and August of each year, between midnight and the
following sunrise.
   (b)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
§ 11-202 STORAGE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, leave or store, or cause to be
placed, left or stored any implements, inoperable automobiles or vehicles,
tools, boxes, merchandise, goods, trash, cans, crates or junk upon public
property, except for the purpose of loading or unloading the same.
(Ord. 3297, passed - -)
§ 11-203 AUTOMOBILE SALES OR SERVICE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All automobiles held by any person for repair, alteration or improvement, or
for sale or resale in the city, shall be stored or parked on privately-owned
property or lots and shall not be stored or parked upon the city streets. The
use of the city streets in contravention herewith is hereby declared to be
unlawful.
(Ord. 3297, passed - -)
§ 11-204 WINDOW PEEPING.
   (a)   Any person who looks into a room or dwelling with the intent of
viewing an occupant thereof fully or partially unclothed is guilty of window
peeping, a misdemeanor, unless such person is lawfully entitled to possession
of said room or dwelling.
   (b)   Any person found guilty of window peeping shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $500 and/or six months’ imprisonment.
(Ord. 3967, passed - -)
§ 11-205 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA is the knowing possession or control of
Cannabis sativa L., otherwise known as marijuana, as it is defined under the
Uniform Controlled Substances Act, K.S.A. 21-5701(j), 21-5706, 65-4101 and 65-
4015(d)(16) and (h) and amendments thereto.
   (b)   Except as authorized by the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, it
shall be unlawful for any person to possess any of the following controlled
substances or controlled substance analogs thereof: any
hallucinogenic drug designated in subsection (d) of K.S.A. 65-4105, subsection
(g) of K.S.A. 65-4107 or subsection (g) of K.S.A. 65-4109, and amendments
thereto.
   (c)   Any person who violates subsection (b) above within the corporate
limits of the city on the first offense shall be guilty of a Class “B” non-
person misdemeanor; on any second offense shall be guilty of a Class “A” non-
person misdemeanor.
   (d)   For the purpose of determining whether a conviction is a first or
second conviction under this section in sentencing under this section, any
conviction for a violation of any state statute, city ordinance or resolution,
or military regulation which prohibits the same, or a substantially similar
offense, shall be considered.
   (e)   The fine for violation of this section for a first offense shall be a
minimum of $500 and may be up to $1,000 and a jail sentence of up to six
months; for a second offense the fine shall be a minimum of $750 and may be up
to $2,500 and a jail sentence of up to 12 months. The court will also assess
court costs, fees for testing, witnesses and any, and all, other expenses
incurred in the investigation and prosecution of the offense. Drug and alcohol
evaluations and any recommended treatment may be ordered as a term and
condition of any probation granted. The costs of probation, evaluations and
treatment will be assessed to any person convicted under this section.
(Ord. 4227, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 11-206 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (a)   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means all equipment and materials of any kind which
are used, or primarily intended or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance pursuant to K.S.A. 21-
5701(f) and amendments thereto. In determining whether an object is drug
paraphernalia, in addition to all other logically relevant factors, the court
shall consider the factors set forth in K.S.A. 21-5709 and amendments thereto.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or possess with the intent
to use any drug paraphernalia to:
      (1)   Manufacture, cultivate, plant, propagate, harvest, test, analyze or
distribute a controlled substance of fewer than five marijuana plants; or
      (2)   Store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise
introduce a controlled substance into the human body.
   (c)   Any person who violates subsection (b) above within the corporate
limits of the city shall be guilty of a Class B non-person misdemeanor.
   (d)   The fine for violation of this section shall be a minimum of $250 and
may be up to $1,000 and a jail sentence of up to six months. The court will
also assess court costs, fees for testing, witnesses and any, and all, other
expenses incurred in the investigation and prosecution of the offense.
(Ord. 4226, passed 6-26-2017)
CHAPTER XII: PUBLIC PROPERTY
   Article
      
1.   CITY PARKS
      
2.   GREENWOOD CEMETERY
      
3.   LAKE EUREKA
      
4.   LIBRARY AND LIBRARY BOARD
      
5.   JOINT RECREATION COMMISSION
      
6.   EUREKA MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
ARTICLE 1: CITY PARKS
Section
   
12-101   City laws extended to park
   
12-102   Police jurisdiction over parks
   
12-103   Damaging park property
   
12-104   Vehicle regulations
   
12-105   Hunting
   
12-106   Fires
   
12-107   Camping prohibited
   
12-108   Sanitation
   
12-109   Prohibition against alcoholic beverages and cereal malt beverages
   
12-110   Preservation of natural state
   
12-111   General regulations
   
12-112   Hours
   
12-113   Tobacco products in all parks and recreational areas owned by the city
§ 12-101 CITY LAWS EXTENDED TO PARK.
   The laws of the city shall extend to and cover all city parks.
§ 12-102 POLICE JURISDICTION OVER PARKS.
   The city shall have police regulations governing any public parks belonging
to the city, and the Chief of Police and law enforcement officers of the city
shall have full power to enforce city laws governing city parks and shall
maintain order therein.
§ 12-103 DAMAGING PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized city employees,
to willfully or wantonly remove, injure, tarnish, deface or destroy any
building, walk, bench, tree or improvement or property of any kind belonging to
any park owned by the city.
§ 12-104 VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Motor vehicles, including any vehicle licensed to operate on public
streets, roads and highways and motorbikes, go-carts, snowmobiles and other
motorized off-the-road vehicles shall be operated in a safe and prudent manner
at all times in park areas.
   (b)   Except as provided in subsection (d) below, it shall be unlawful for
any person to park any motor vehicle in any area not designated for such
purpose.
   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (d) below, it shall be unlawful for
any person to operate any motor vehicle within any city park except upon roads,
drives and parking areas established by the city.
   (d)   Subsections (b) and (c) above shall not apply to authorized city
employees while engaged in the maintenance and care of the park.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle in any park area at a
speed in excess of 20 mph.
§ 12-105 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue, catch, trap, maim, kill,
shoot or take any wildlife, either bird or animal, in any manner at any time
while in any city park.
§ 12-106 FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or kindle any fire in any city
park except in the ovens, stoves or grills provided for that purpose by the
city, and such fire must be extinguished by the person, persons or parties
starting such fire, immediately after use thereof.
§ 12-107 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   Overnight camping is hereby prohibited in city parks, except where posted.
§ 12-108 SANITATION.
   All waste material, paper, trash, rubbish, tin cans, bottles, containers,
garbage and refuse of any kind whatsoever shall be deposited in disposal
containers provided for such purposes. No such waste or contaminating material
shall be discarded otherwise. No sticks, stones, trash or other objects shall
be thrown or discarded in or on any park lands, fountains, pools, drinking
fountains, sanitary facilities or other improvements.
§ 12-109 PROHIBITION AGAINST ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to use, consume or have on
the premises of any park or other city property within the city any alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage.
§ 12-110 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL STATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized city employees,
to take, injure or disturb any live or dead tree, plant, shrub or flower, or
otherwise interfere with the natural state of city parks.
§ 12-111 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The city may post such rules and regulations, as are approved by the
governing body, pertaining to the use of the city parks in a conspicuous place
in each city park. Violations of these posted rules shall constitute a
violation of this code.
§ 12-112 HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in or operate a motorized
vehicle, bicycle or other means of conveyance upon any property inside the
boundaries of those parks designated as “Eureka City Park” and “Lions Club
Park”, between the hours of 12:00 midnight and the following sunrise, except as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Any person desiring to enter into or use the facilities of those parks
designated as “Eureka City Park” and “Lions Club Park”, between the hours of
12:00 midnight and the following sunrise must first receive a permit from the
Chief of Police of the city for such entering or use prior to the entry or use.
(Ord. 2967, passed - -)
§ 12-113 TOBACCO PRODUCTS IN ALL PARKS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS OWNED BY THE
CITY.
   (a)   Prohibition against smoking of cigarettes and use of tobacco products.
Smoking or carry lighted cigarettes, e-cigarettes and JUUL’s, pipes, cigars and
other tobacco products to include smokeless tobacco, within all publicly-owned
or leased swimming pools and pool grounds, public parks, playgrounds, ball
fields and all other recreational areas owned by the town shall be prohibited
with the city.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PUBLICLY-OWNED SWIMMING POOLS AND POOL GROUNDS, PUBLIC PARKS,
PLAYGROUNDS, BALL FIELDS AND ALL OTHER RECREATIONAL AREAS OWNED BY THE TOWN.
Any place or area within the city upon which the public is invited or upon
which the public is permitted and where children gather for recreational
activities.
      TOBACCO. Any product derived from, smoked or containing products of
tobacco. This includes, but is not limited to cigarettes (cloves, bidis,
kreteks), chewing tobacco (spit, spitless, smokeless, chew, snuff and snus),
cigars and cigarillos, hookah and hookah-smoked products, pipes, blunts,
smokeless tobacco, and similar products. Electronic cigarettes or e-cigarettes
are prohibited. This policy also prohibits the use of any product simulating
the previously mentioned products.
   (c)   Penalties. Any person who has been found to violated this section
shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   For an offense of any, a fine of no less than $50 and a maximum of
$1,000 per offense will be issued; or
      (2)   At the Judge’s discretion, the Judge may suspend the fine in lieu
of attendance by the offender, at his or her own expense, in a smoking
cessation program recommended by the local Health Department including the
dangers of smoking, tobacco use and secondhand smoke.
   (d)   Signage. The city will attach permanent signage indication “City of
Eureka Smoke Free Zone” or other signage conveying a similar message, at all
such publicly-owned playgrounds, ball fields, swimming pools and pool grounds
and all other public parks and recreation leased or owned by the town.
(Ord. 4239, passed 9-10-2018)
ARTICLE 2: GREENWOOD CEMETERY
Section
   
12-201   Cemetery lots; use
   
12-202   Burials; restrictions
   
12-203   Monuments
   
12-204   Lots; plants and shrubs
   
12-205   Lots; care
   
12-206   Lots; grading; curbs
   
12-207   Interments
   
12-208   Opening graves; charge
   
12-209   Interments; restrictions
   
12-210   Interment; restrictions
   
12-211   Interments; notice; restrictions
   
12-212   Monuments; joint ownership
   
12-213   Wooden grave markers
   
12-214   Monument foundations
   
12-215   Cemetery hours
   
12-216   Trees and shrubs
   
12-217   Dogs in cemetery
   
12-218   Conduct in cemetery
   
12-219   Advertisements
   
12-220   Vehicles; animals
   
12-221   Offenses affecting graves
   
12-222   Burial of human remains
§ 12-201 CEMETERY LOTS; USE.
   All lots shall be held as burial places for the dead, and for no other
purpose.
§ 12-202 BURIALS; RESTRICTIONS.
   The owners of any lots shall not allow interments to be made in their lots
for remuneration, nor shall any transfer or assignment of any lot or any
interest therein be valid without securing the registration and the endorsement
in writing on the back thereof, by the City Clerk.
§ 12-203 MONUMENTS.
   (a)   The owner of each lot shall have the right to erect any proper stones,
monuments and sepulcher structures on that lot; except that, no vaults or
mausoleum shall be built entirely or partly aboveground unless they are not
less than two feet from the edge of the lot upon which they are built.
   (b)   (1)   Monument permit required, application for installation of
monument. It shall be unlawful for any person/monument company to hereafter
install any monument, in the Greenwood Cemetery without a permit from the City
Clerk. The application of such permit shall be made and the permit obtained
before the removal, alteration, enlargement or installation of any monument.
      (2)   Application information required.
         (A)   A monument permit shall be issued upon an application in writing
to the office of the City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the purpose.
This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
      (1)   The setting date;
      (2)   Names of deceased(s);
      (3)   Name of owner of lots(s);
      (4)   Cemetery location;
      (5)   Monument company;
      (6)   Address;
      (7)   Contact number;
      (8)   Signature;
      (9)   Application approved by; and
      (10)   Date.
         (B)   Upon approval of completed application and a determination that
a permit would be issued, the City Clerk shall issue a permit to the person/
monument company authorizing the work covered by the application.
         (C)   Persons engaged in installing monuments or other structures are
prohibited from attaching ropes to trees and shrubbery and from scattering
their material on adjoining lots or for leaving the same on the ground longer
than absolutely necessary, and no monument work shall be brought into the
cemetery on Saturday, Sundays or observed holidays.
      (3)   Monument fees. Permit required by this article shall issued by the
City Clerk only after payment of the permit fee to the City Clerk in the
amounts:
         (A)   Single monument: $15;
         (B)   Double monument: $25; and
         (C)   Ground: $25.
(Ord. 4170, passed 11-25-2013)
§ 12-204 LOTS; PLANTS AND SHRUBS.
   The owner of every lot shall have the right to cultivate only such shrubbery
and plants in the same as shall be approved by the City Council or the sexton,
but no trees growing within the lots or on the border thereof shall be cut down
or destroyed without having first secured the written permission of the City
Council or the sexton.
§ 12-205 LOTS; CARE.
   The City Council may prohibit or remove any erection, enclosure, or anything
which they deem detrimental to the general good appearance of the ground or
which shall, in the judgment of the City Council, prevent the easy or proper
care of lot, and may remove or prune trees, shrubbery or flowers within the
cemetery.
§ 12-206 LOTS; GRADING; CURBS.
   No mound or any grave shall be raised to such a height that it cannot be
mown across with a lawnmower. In no case shall the height exceed four inches
above the regular ground line. No curbing shall be built around any lot or
grave.
§ 12-207 INTERMENTS.
   All interments and disinterments shall be made by the sexton of the cemetery
on presentation of an order from the City Clerk, which shall be issued on the
payment of the proper fee therefor.
§ 12-208 OPENING GRAVES; CHARGE.
   (a)   The charge of opening and closing graves of a length of four feet and
under in Greenwood Cemetery shall be $250 for each grave on weekdays and $450
for each grave on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. The charge for opening and
closing of graves of a length of more than four feet in Greenwood Cemetery
shall be $350 for each grave on weekdays and $700 for each grave on Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays.
   (b)   The charge for purchasing grave sites in those areas designated as
baby row shall be $50 per grave site. The charge for purchasing all other grave
sites in Greenwood Cemetery shall be $350 per grave site to be used for burial
of a resident of Greenwood County and $550 per grave site for the burial of a
nonresident. There will be a 10% discount given to anyone purchasing, at one
time, a full lot, which consist of eight grave sites. A resident of Greenwood
County is an individual who resided in Greenwood County at the time of lot
purchase.
   (c)   The charge for opening and closing in the Greenwood Cemetery Mausoleum
shall be $300 for each crypt on weekdays and $500 for each crypt on Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays.
   (d)   The charge for disinterment will be $700 per grave site.
(Ord. 3994, passed - -; Ord. 4054, passed - -; Ord. 4151, passed 4-9-2012; Ord.
4172, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 4268, passed 9-14-2020; Ord. 4324, passed 9-11-
2023)
§ 12-209 INTERMENTS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   No interment shall be made of two or more bodies in one grave, except
in the case of a mother and infant or two children buried in one coffin.
   (b)   Cremation may be buried on top of a traditional burial. Not more than
two cremations per grave space are allowed on top of a traditional burial.
   (c)   Not more than three cremations will be allowed per space.
   (d)   All burials must be in a durable, non-deteriorating grave liner.
(Ord. 4268, passed 9-14-2020; Ord. 4324, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 12-210 INTERMENT; RESTRICTIONS.
   No interment of any body other than that of a human being shall be permitted
in the cemetery.
§ 12-211 INTERMENTS; NOTICE; RESTRICTIONS.
   Whenever interments are to be made, the notice shall be given on the day
previous to the sexton and if the interment is to be made in a private lot, the
location of the grave in the lot shall be specified. No interment of any body
other than that of an immediate relative or heir of the owner of any lot shall
be made unless written permission of such lot owner is filed with the City
Clerk.
§ 12-212 MONUMENTS; JOINT OWNERSHIP.
   Where the lot is owned by two or more parties, and they desire to erect a
monument, it is recommended that they unite in erecting a joint memorial.
§ 12-213 WOODEN GRAVE MARKERS.
   Wooden grave markers or monuments are prohibited.
§ 12-214 MONUMENT FOUNDATIONS.
   (a)   The bases of all monuments or markers must be cut so as to set
squarely on level foundations.
   (b)   All monuments and engraved stones must be placed upon foundations
built of solid masonry or concrete, which shall not be more than three feet
deep nor less than four inches thick and of a size no less than six inches
outside the base of the stone to be placed upon the base.
   (c)   No foundation shall be built less than one foot square.
(Ord. 2422, passed - -)
§ 12-215 CEMETERY HOURS.
   No person shall be permitted within the cemetery between the hours of sunset
and sunrise.
§ 12-216 TREES AND SHRUBS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant in or remove from any lot or
portion of a lot any tree or shrub without the prior consent of the governing
body. The governing body reserves the right to trim or remove any trees, shrubs
or plants growing on any lot.
§ 12-217 DOGS IN CEMETERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a dog to run loose in the
cemetery. All persons entering any cemetery with a dog must keep the same on
leash or confined within an automobile.
§ 12-218 CONDUCT IN CEMETERY.
   It is to be remembered that the cemetery grounds are sacredly devoted to the
interment of the dead and proper decorum within and near the cemetery shall be
mandatory of all persons at all times.
§ 12-219 ADVERTISEMENTS.
   No advertisement shall be permitted within the cemetery at any time.
§ 12-220 VEHICLES; ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle or any animal upon
cemetery grounds, except upon the drives provided for that purpose.
§ 12-221 OFFENSES AFFECTING GRAVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority of the relatives of
the deceased or the person in charge of the cemetery willfully to remove or
destroy any monuments, or decoration on the premises in the cemetery, or in any
way to molest or disturb any grave or the improvements placed on the burial lot
where any grave is located.
§ 12-222 BURIAL OF HUMAN REMAINS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit or allow the burial of any human remains on
any public or private property within the city; provided, however, that the
foregoing shall not apply to the due and proper burial or disposition of
remains within a properly zoned and operated cemetery in compliance with the
rules and regulations applicable thereto. The scattering of the ashes of any
cremated human remains is not permitted, except upon private property with the
permission of the owner thereof.
(Ord. 4150, passed 3-12-2012)
ARTICLE 3: LAKE EUREKA
Section
   
12-301   Lake Eureka; public use; water supply
   
12-302   Article supplemental to city ordinances
   
12-303   Police jurisdiction
   
12-304   Definitions
   
12-305   Licenses and permits required; fishing; water craft; lot site and
structures
   
12-306   Wading; swimming; operation of water craft; fishing
   
12-307   Firearms; discharge; hunters
   
12-308   Regulation of lit licenses; building and sanitation codes;
construction and remodeling
   
12-309   Miscellaneous provisions
   
12-310   Lake Eureka area sanitation regulations; water pollution
   
12-311   License applications
   
12-312   Cabin license fees
§ 12-301 LAKE EUREKA; PUBLIC USE; WATER SUPPLY.
   The city-owned lake known as “Lake Eureka” and all of the city-owned land
adjacent to that lake, located in Sections 3, 4 and 10, Township 25 South,
Range 10 East, Greenwood County, Kansas, are hereby opened to public use as a
park and for recreational purposes in areas designated for public use. All
leased property shall be considered private property and shall not be open to
public use. No public or private use of the lake shall interfere with the use
of the lake as a municipal water supply.
(Ord. 4072, passed - -)
§ 12-302 ARTICLE SUPPLEMENTAL TO CITY ORDINANCES.
   This article shall be cumulative to and supplemental to the city ordinances.
All city ordinances, to the extent applicable, shall apply to Lake Eureka.
Specifically, all buildings and construction at the lake must be in compliance
with Art.
2,
3,
4,
5 and
6 of Ch. 4 of the code of the city.
(Ord. 3906, passed - -)
§ 12-303 POLICE JURISDICTION.
   The police jurisdiction of the city is hereby extended to Lake Eureka.
(Ord. 3906, passed - -)
§ 12-304 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Eureka, Kansas, unless the context requires otherwise.
   LAKE EUREKA. The lake and adjacent property set out in §
12-301 shall be referred to as Lake Eureka in this article.
   RESIDENT/NON-RESIDENT. Only the named licensee of a lake lot site or a
resident of the city. All other applicants will be considered as non-resident
for purposes of permits issued hereunder.
   WATER CRAFT. Any boat, canoe, rowboat and any other craft or vehicle
intended to convey people on the lake, whether powered or not powered. The term
PERSONAL WATER CRAFT shall include water bikes, jet skis and similar craft.
(Ord. 3906, passed - -)
§ 12-305 LICENSES AND PERMITS REQUIRED; FISHING; WATER CRAFT; LOT SITE AND
STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fish in or have any water craft upon
Lake Eureka or to maintain or hereafter construct, remodel, replace or repair
any structure upon city-owned property adjacent to Lake Eureka without a permit
or license as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 3906, passed - -)
§ 12-306 WADING; SWIMMING; OPERATION OF WATER CRAFT; FISHING.
   (a)   Wading and swimming. It shall be unlawful for any person to wade or
swim in Lake Eureka except for the purpose of dock or shoreline repairs and
maintenance: as incidental to the sport of waterskiing; as necessary and
incidental to launching, entering or leaving a boat within a leased lot and at
a cabin site boat dock as necessary and incidental to the launching of boats
from any city dock or boat ramp; and as necessary during emergencies and for
maintenance and repair of city property; provided, however, the governing body
of the city may from time to time designate an area or areas of the lake where
swimming is permitted and when so designated with proper signs and markings,
swimming will be permitted in the designated area or areas subject to any rules
and regulations adopted by the city and made applicable to swimming at Lake
Eureka.
   (b)   Fishing permits; rates and game laws. All fishing permits issued under
this article shall be subject to all the fish and game laws of the state and
the rules and regulations of the state’s Department of Wildlife and Parks.
Before any fishing permit shall be issued under this article, the applicant
must be in possession of a valid license issued by the state.
   (c)   Fishing permits; rates; regulations.
      (1)   Except as provided herein, no person shall fish at Lake Eureka
without a separate permit issued by the city.
      (2)   A fishing permit for residents and non-residents shall be obtained
from the lake caretaker or other designated persons.
      (3)   Children under 16 years of age may fish in the lake without a
permit; provided the child is accompanied by a person who has a valid permit
and fishing license.
      (4)   All permit holders shall carry their permit upon their person when
fishing and shall display them to any officer of the city or any other law
enforcement officer upon demand.
      (5)   Any person age 65 years and older may fish in the lake without a
permit.
      (6)   All yearly fishing permits issued by the city shall expire on
December 31 of the year in which it is issued. Any one day fishing permit shall
be valid only on the days for which it is issued.
      (7)   The governing body shall set permit fees by separate resolution.
   (d)   Fishing regulations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to fish in the lake, except with pole or rod
and line and it shall be unlawful for any person to have set at any one time
more than two poles or rods and lines or to have more than two hooks on any one
line.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to sell or buy any fish caught or taken from
Lake Eureka.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to fish with limb lines, trot lines, buoy
lines or bottle lines.
      (4)   The dumping of minnows or any other kind of bait in the lake is
prohibited.
   (e)   Keeping, operating, riding in water craft at own risk. No personal
shall maintain or operate any water craft on Lake Eureka without a permit
issued by the city under this article. All persons keeping, maintaining,
operating and riding in water craft on Lake Eureka do so entirely at their own
risk.
   (f)   Water craft permit; application. Any resident or nonresident seeking
to keep, operate and maintain any water craft upon Lake Eureka shall submit an
application in writing for a permit to the caretaker or other designated
person. In the event that Kansas, by law, requires a state license or permit to
operate any water craft, no Lake Eureka permit shall be granted to any person
who does not have the necessary state license or permit. No permit shall be
issued for any water craft until the owner shall
execute and deliver to the person issuing the permit a statement, in writing
under penalty of perjury under Kansas law, that the insurance coverage required
in subsection (g) below has been obtained and is in full force and effect. Upon
request, the applicant shall furnish written confirmation or other proof of
insurance to the person issuing the permit.
   (g)   Liability insurance required. Owners of all water craft shall keep in
force at all times during the effective term of their water craft permit, a
public liability and property damage insurance policy covering the operation of
such water craft by any operator with liability limits in such amounts as the
governing body shall from time to time establish by resolution.
   (h)   Permit fees; water craft. The governing body shall by resolution
establish permit fees for all water craft that will be used on Lake Eureka.
Daily permits will not be issued for the period from two days before to two
days following Memorial Day, July 4 and Labor Day.
   (i)   Persons under 16 years not to operate water craft; exceptions. No
person under the age of 16 shall operate a powered water craft unless
accompanied by an adult.
   (j)   Water craft permit; nontransferable. Water craft permits shall not be
transferable to any water craft.
   (k)   Revocation of water craft permit; when; hearing for reinstatement. The
caretaker, his or her assistants, or any of the city law enforcement officers
may immediately revoke any permit for any water craft operated on Lake Eureka
in a hazardous, negligent, careless or unlawful manner. Revocation of such
water craft permit shall be effective for the balance of the year for which
such water craft permit was granted; provided that, the permit holder may apply
for reinstatement of the water craft permit to the governing body which shall
appoint an officer or a committee to hold the hearing on reinstating the
permit. If a permit is revoked, the permit fee is not refundable.
   (l)   Equipment required; all water craft.
      (1)   All water craft shall be equipped with sealed air chambers or other
buoyant devices capable of keeping the water craft and occupants afloat.
      (2)   All water craft occupants under the age of 12 shall wear a Coast
Guard approved personal floatation device. All occupants of personal water
craft shall wear a Coast Guard approved personal floatation device at all
times. Occupants in other types of water craft over 12 years of age shall have
Coast Guard approved personal floatation devices available within the water
craft.
      (3)   Each water craft other than a personal water craft such as a jet
ski shall be equipped with one or more oars or paddles.
      (4)   It is unlawful to use a water craft propelled by an internal
combustion engine unless the same is provided with a stock factory muffler,
underwater exhaust or other modem devices capable of
adequately muffling the sound or the exhaust of the engine. The phrase
ADEQUATELY MUFFLING shall mean that the motor’s exhaust at all time shall be so
muffled or suppressed as not to create excessive or unusual noise. The
discharge of cooling water through the exhaust of an inboard engine shall be
considered an adequate muffling device. The use of cutouts, except as provided
in K.S.A. 32-1120 is prohibited.
   (m)   Certain prohibited operations.
      (1)   No person shall operate any water craft or any water skis,
surfboard or similar device in a reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger
the life or property of any person.
      (2)   No person shall operate any water craft, water skis, surfboard or
similar device while under the influence of alcohol or any narcotic drug,
barbiturate or marijuana.
      (3)   No person shall operate any water craft, except for fishing
purposes, or pull any water skis, surfboards or similar device in any area of
the lake designated or marked as a non-water craft area by the city.
      (4)   No person shall operate any water craft loaded with passengers or
cargo beyond its safe carrying capacity, taking into consideration weather and
other operating conditions.
      (5)   No person operating any motorboat, vessel or water craft, including
jet skis, shall steer or turn such motorboat, vessel or water craft in a sharp
manner such that the motorboat, vessel or water craft, within a short distance,
turns 180 degrees or more from its course of direction prior to beginning such
turn.
   (n)   Right-of-way regulations; meeting and overtaking other water craft.
Water craft, when meeting, shall pass each other to the right. Water craft,
when approaching each other obliquely or at right angles, will yield the right-
of-way to the water craft on the tight. Sailboats, canoes, rowboats, surfboards
and other unpowered craft shall have the right-of-way at all times. One water
craft may overtake another on either side, but must grant right-of-way to the
overtaken water craft. All motorized water craft must operate in a counter-
clockwise pattern.
   (o)   Collisions, accidents or casualties.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a water craft involved in a
collision, accident or other casualty so far as he or she can do so without
serious danger to his or her own vessel, crew and passengers, to render to
other persons affected by the collision, accident or other casualty such
assistance as may be practicable and as may be necessary in order to save them
from or minimize any dangers caused by the collision, accident or other
casualty. The operator shall also give in writing his or her name, address and
the identification number of the water craft to any person injured and to the
owner of any property damaged in the collision, accident or other casualty.
      (2)   The operator or owner of any water craft involved in a collision,
accident or other casualty shall file any report required by Kansas law with
the state’s Department of Wildlife and Parks (or other state agency) of the
collision, accident or other casualty within 24 hours of the collision. The
owner or operator shall file a copy of such report with the city’s Police
Department within 24 hours of such collision, accident or other casualty.
   (p)   Water skiing hours, rules. Water skiing is permitted provided:
      (1)   Each person water skiing shall wear a Coast Guard approved personal
floatation device;
      (2)   All persons water skiing do so at their own risk;
      (3)   Water skiing, where otherwise permitted herein, is permitted only
between sunup and sunset;
      (4)   No person shall operate or manipulate any vessel, tow rope or other
device by which the direction or location of water skis, surfboard or similar
device may be affected or controlled in such a way as to cause the water skis,
surfboard or similar device, or any person thereon to collide with or strike
against any object or person;
      (5)   No person shall operate any water craft on Lake Eureka for towing a
person or persons on water skis, surfboard or similar device, unless the water
craft is equipped with a wide angle rear-view mirror properly placed to provide
a maximum vision of the person or persons being towed, or there is an observer
in or on the water craft in addition to the operator. The observer must be a
responsible person of at least 12 years of age; and
      (6)   The provisions of subsection (p)(1) above do not apply to a
performer engaged in a professional exhibition or a person or persons engaged
in an activity authorized under K.S.A. 32-1149.
   (q)   Suspension of water craft activity. The lake caretaker may suspend all
water craft activity on the lake at any time for safety reasons.
   (r)   Houseboats prohibited. Houseboats are expressly prohibited on Lake
Eureka.
(Ord. 3986, passed - -)
§ 12-307 FIREARMS; DISCHARGE; HUNTERS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or discharge any firearm
at Lake Eureka, except by law enforcement personnel in furtherance of their
duties.
   (b)   No hunting shall be permitted at Lake Eureka.
(Ord. 3985, passed - -)
§ 12-308 REGULATION OF LIT LICENSES; BUILDING AND SANITATION CODES;
CONSTRUCTION AND REMODELING.
   (a)   Lot sites; residence license. Subject to the provisions of this
article, any responsible person may obtain a license to construct and maintain
structures upon such parcel of ground surrounding Lake Eureka as has been
designated by the governing body. Such license shall be for an indefinite
period and shall be conditional upon the applicant/holder complying with all
applicable city ordinances and resolutions and payment of fees approved by the
city governing body.
   (b)   License application. Any person seeking a lot license shall make a
written application and pay a fee to the City Clerk. The application must be
approved or rejected by the City Administrator, if approved by the City
Administrator, the governing body shall consider and determine whether to make
final approval.
   (c)   Lot license fees. After the lot license application has been approved
by the City Administrator and the governing body, the City Clerk shall issue a
license upon such form as may be adopted by the governing body to the applicant
granting to the applicant a license to construct and maintain structures on the
lot conditional upon the licensee complying with all applicable city ordinances
and resolutions and payment of fees approved by the governing body. All annual
license fees shall be payable in advance on or before July 1 in each year.
   (d)   Failure to pay lot license fees; revocation of license. If any
licensee shall fail to pay any yearly lot license fee when due, the governing
body of the city shall have the right, to cancel the license upon giving the
license holder ten days’ written notice. If the license fee and late fees
assessed by the governing body are not paid within the period of time specified
in the notice, the governing body may sell and dispose of the structures on the
lot. Lot license fees and accrued late fees shall constitute a first lien
against the license and any structures on the lot and must be paid in full
before a defaulted license can be reinstated or transferred.
   (e)   Trash removal service. Commencing July 1, 2013, each lake lot licensee
will be required to obtain trash removal service from the city. Part-time
residents are required to maintain trash removal service with the city during
the months of April through September. Full-time residents are required to
maintain trash removal service throughout the term of the lease. The city will
bill each lake lot licensee a fee set by resolution on a monthly basis.
   (f)   Lot license transfers. A lot license may be transferred by a licensee
by assignment or by inheritance. However, until a transfer is approved by the
city, the licensee of records remains liable for any lot rent and other fees
and no transfer is effective until approved by the city. Any person wishing to
transfer a lot license shall obtain an application from the City Clerk. The
transferee shall pay a fee set by the governing body for the transfer and in
addition shall pay any unpaid rent and late fees. Before the transfer can be
approved, boundary lines must be established by the lake caretaker and the
septic system must meet approved code for Lake Eureka. The lot license transfer
must be approved by the City Administrator and the governing body. The city may
condition approval of the transfer upon the compliance of the transferee with
any existing regulations applicable to the license.
   (g)   Building and land use regulations.
      (1)   Each lot licensee shall keep his, her or their premises clean and
in a sanitary condition at all times and comply with all applicable rules and
regulations of the city code and the state. All structures shall be kept well
painted, neat and in good state of repair.
      (2)   No person shall conduct any business or perform any services for
profit or nonprofit upon any lot.
      (3)   No cabin, house or other building shall be used for any unlawful
purpose and, for the violation of the city code, the governing body may revoke
any license issued hereunder and require the removal of the building form the
premises upon such notice and an opportunity for a hearing as the governing
body shall establish by resolution.
      (4)   No structure shall hereafter be erected at Lake Eureka by any
license holder closer than five feet from the boundary line of the lot on which
said structure is erected.
   (h)   Manufactured housing regulations.
      (1)   A MANUFACTURED HOUSE is defined as a dwelling unit substantially
assembled in an off-site manufacturing facility of installation or assembly at
the dwelling site, beating a label certifying that it was built in compliance
with National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (245 C.F.R.
part 3280 et seq.) promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
      (2)   No manufactured house hall be hereafter erected, located,
maintained or used for dwelling purposes on any lot located at Lake Eureka
unless said house qualifies as a manufactured house as defined in subsection
(h)(1) above.
      (3)   The lawful use of any lot existing at the time of adoption of this
section may be continued although such use does not conform to the provisions
here provided however:
         (A)   The cessation of the nonconforming use for a period of 30 days
shall terminate the right of the license holder to the continuance of the
nonconforming use; and
         (B)   No manufactured house used for dwelling purposes which has been
damaged by fire, explosion or act of God, to the extent of more than 50% of its
fair market value shall be restored, except in conformity with the provisions
of this article.
   (i)   Lake Eureka area sanitation regulations; water pollution.
      (1)   No human excrement shall be deposited or discharged into Lake
Eureka or into any lake tributary and no cesspool, privy or other receptacle
for the deposit of human excrement shall be located, constructed or maintained
within the lake drainage area unless such cesspool, privy or other receptacle
be so constructed that no portion of its contents can escape or be washed into
such watercourse.
      (2)   No human excrement or compost containing human excrement, or
contents of any privy, cesspool, sewer or other receptacle for the reception or
storage of human excrement shall be deposited or discharged within the lake
drainage area or upon or into the ground at a place from which any such
excrement, compost or content or particle thereof may flow to be washed or
carried into the lake or into any tributary of the lake.
      (3)   No house slopes, sink water, wash water or cooking water, or any
other polluted water shall be discharged into the lake or into any watercourse
within the lake drainage area; and no house slops, sink waste water which has
been used for washing or cooking, or other polluted water shall be discharged
into or upon the ground in the lake drainage area except as recommended by the
state’s Department of Health and Environment and approved by the city.
      (4)   No garbage, manure or putrescible matter whatsoever shall be but
into the lake or into any tributary of the lake; and no garbage, manure or
putrescible matter whatsoever shall be put upon the ground in the lake drainage
area.
      (5)   No stable, dog pen, pigsty, henhouse, barnyard, hog yard, hitching
or standing place for houses, cattle or other animals, or other place where
animals manure is deposited or accumulated, shall be located, constructed or
maintained in the lake drainage area or the high water line of the lake or of
any tributary of the lake.
      (6)   No refuse, industrial wasted, salt water or other waste products or
polluting liquids, or other substance of a nature poisonous or injurious,
either to human beings or animals or of such nature as would impart an
objectionable test.
      (7)   No system of sewers or other works the collection, conveyance,
disposal or purification of domestic or manufacturing sewage, wastes or
drainage, or any other putrescible matters whatsoever shall be constructed or
maintained within the Lake Eureka drainage area, except in accordance with
resolutions adopted by the city or regulations as may be applied by the state’s
Department of Health and Environment and approved by the city. All
installations shall be made under the supervision of the City Administrator or
his or her designee.
      (8)   Any camp trailer or other mobile dwelling being occupied for more
than 14 consecutive days shall be hooked to a holding tank or septic system
installed in compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (j)   Building restrictions; camping restrictions. No human habitation,
cottage, tent, camp site or residence of any kind, either temporary or
permanent, shall be built, set up or constructed upon any lands within 100 feet
of the normal water line of Lake Eureka or of any watercourse in the Lake
Eureka drainage area, except upon such or any part of such lands the natural
drainage of which is not into the lake or watercourse; provided, however, the
city may construct and maintain such structures within such prohibited
territory as may be necessary in the furtherance of the protection of such
reservoir from contamination and pollution.
   (k)   Existing structures; compliance; written waiver of compliance.
      (1)   The city recognizes that some existing structures including septic
systems, do not comply with the requirements of this ordinance and the
resolutions passed hereunder.
      (2)   To the extent that, upon inspection the caretaker determines that
an existing structure presents a health or safety hazard to the safe use of
Lake Eureka, the caretaker shall give written notice to the licensee describing
the hazard and requiring that the hazard be corrected within a reasonable
period of time. If the licensee fails to correct the hazard within the time
specified, the city governing body, after further notice, may terminate or
refuse to renew the license.
      (3)   To the extent that an existing structure does not constitute a
health hazard or a threat to safe use of Lake Eureka, licensees may obtain from
the caretaker a written waiver of compliance with the applicable city
ordinances and resolutions. All such waivers must be obtained within 180 days
of the effective date of this section. Any waiver dated more than 180 days
after the effective date is null and void. Any waiver must describe the
location and condition of a structure on a lot and must state specifically that
the structure does not constitute a health or safety hazard. The licensee will
retain a copy of the waiver and the original signed copy will be filed with the
City Clerk.
      (4)   The lawful use of any lot existing at the time of adoption of this
section may be continued although such use does not conform to the provisions
hereof; provided that, an existing structure does not constitute a health
hazard or a threat to safe use of Lake Eureka. However:
         (A)   The cessation of the nonconforming use for a period of 30 days
shall terminate the right of the licensee to the continuance of the
nonconforming use; and
         (B)   No nonconforming structure used for dwelling purposes which has
been damaged by fire, explosion or act of God, to the extent of more than 50%
of its fair market value shall be restored, except in conformity with the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 3986, passed - -; Ord. 4161, passed 2-25-2013; Ord. 4273, passed 12-14-
2020)
§ 12-309 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Lake Advisory Board. The governing body of the city shall appoint an
advisory board consisting of seven members, six of whom shall be lot licensees
under this article and one who may be a householder and a resident of the city.
Each member shall be appointed for a term of three years and serve until his or
her successor shall have been appointed. In the case of a vacancy on the
Advisory Board, the governing body shall appoint a successor to fill the
vacancy for the unexpired term. The members of the Board shall annually elect
one member as Chairperson to serve for the following year.
   (b)   Lake Advisory Board duties. It shall be the duty of the Lake Advisory
Board to make recommendations pertaining to rule changes and improvements at
Lake Eureka to the governing body of the city. The Board shall also provide
such advice and assistance as may be required by the Lake Eureka Caretaker. The
Board shall meet at least two times a year after such notice to the members as
the majority shall approve.
   (c)   Pets at large. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any pet
to run at large at Lake Eureka.
   (d)   Speed limit. The speed limit for motor vehicles operated on the roads
at Lake Eureka shall be 20 mph.
   (e)   Off-road vehicles. It shall be illegal to operate powered off-road
vehicles of any kind on city property at Lake Eureka.
   (f)   Appeals to the city governing body. Appeals to the city governing body
may be taken by any person aggrieved by an officer, department, bureau or board
of the city affected by any decision granting or refusing to grant any license,
permit or certification authorized hereunder in accordance with the provisions
of this article. Such appeal shall be taken in writing and filed with the City
Clerk within 30 days of the decision appealed. The governing body shall
thereafter appoint an officer or a committee to hear the appeal and give
reasonable written notice to the person appealing of any hearing. The decision
of the officer or committee shall upon ratification by the governing body, be
final.
(Ord. 3906, passed - -; Ord. 4072, passed - -; Ord. 4232, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 12-310 LAKE EUREKA AREA SANITATION REGULATIONS; WATER POLLUTION.
   (a)   No human excrement shall be deposited or discharged into Lake Eureka
or into any lake tributary and no cesspool, privy or other receptacle for the
deposit of human excrement shall be located, constructed or maintained within
the lake drainage area, unless such cesspool, privy or other receptacle be so
constructed that no portion of its contents can escape or be washed into such
watercourse.
   (b)   No human excrement or compost containing human excrement, or contents
of any privy, cesspool, sewer or other receptacle for the reception of storage
of human excrement shall be deposited or discharged within the lake drainage
area or upon or into the ground at a place from which any such excrement,
compost or content or particle thereof, may flow to be washed or carried into
the lake or into any tributary of the lake.
   (c)   No house slops, sink water, wash water or cooking water, or any other
polluted water shall be discharged into the lake, or into any watercourse
within the lake drainage area; and no house slops, sink waste, water which has
been used for washing or cooking, or other polluted water shall be discharged
into or upon the ground in the lake drainage area, except as recommended by the
state’s Department of Health and approved by the city.
   (d)   No garbage, manure or putrescible matter whatsoever shall be put into
the lake, or into, any tributary of the lake; and no garbage, manure or
putrescible matter whatsoever shall be put upon the ground in the lake drainage
area.
   (e)   No stable, pigsty, henhouse, barnyard, hog yard, hitching or standing
place for horses, cattle or other animals, or other place where animals manure
is deposited or accumulated, shall be located, constructed or maintained in the
lake drainage area, or the high water line of the lake or of any tributary of
the lake.
   (f)   No refuse, industrial wastes, salt water or other waste products or
polluting liquids, or other substance of a nature poisonous or injurious,
either to human beings or animals or of such nature as would impart an
objectionable taste or odor to any water into which it might be discharged, and
no putrescible mater whatsoever shall be discharged directly into or at any
place from which it may flow or be washed or carried into the lake or into any
tributary of the lake.
   (g)   No system of sewers or other works for the collection, conveyance,
disposal or purification of domestic or manufacturing sewage, wastes or
drainage, or any other putrescible matters whatsoever shall be constructed or
maintained within the Lake Eureka drainage area, except in accordance with
regulations as may be applied by the state’s Department of Health and approved
by the city. All installations shall be made under the supervision of the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 3873, passed - -)
§ 12-311 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   Any person seeking to erect a cabin, house or other building upon the lake
premises shall make a written application to the Planning Board therefor,
stating the name and addresses of the applicant or applicants, the purpose for
which to be used, together with a sketch or blueprint showing the construction
plan and estimated costs thereof, and the Planning Board shall within ten days
after receipt of the application and report the same to the City Administrator
who must approve or reject the application within ten days. After approval by
the City Administrator, the governing body must make formal approval.
(Ord. 3873, passed - -)
§ 12-312 CABIN LICENSE FEES.
   After the application has been approved by the Planning Board, City
Administrator and the governing body, the City Clerk shall issue a license upon
such form as may be adopted by the governing body therefor, to the applicant,
granting unto the applicant the privilege and right to erect and maintain
according to the rules and regulations, a cabin, house or other building upon
the payment of the annual license fees following: the license fee for
permission to erect and maintain a cabin, house or other approved building
shall be a sum established from time to time by resolution of the governing
body and shall be payable in advance and on July 1 in each year. The governing
body shall have the right to limit the number of nonresident licenses granted
under this section.
(Ord. 3873, passed - -)
ARTICLE 4: LIBRARY AND LIBRARY BOARD
Section
   
12-401   Library Board; members
   
12-402   Library Board; compensation
   
12-403   Library Board; members; eligibility
   
12-404   Library Board; organization; meetings
   
12-405   Library Board; duties
   
12-406   Library Board; Treasurer; bond; duties
   
12-407   Library Board; annual report to governing body
   
12-408   Library Board; annual report to Kansas Traveling Library Commission
   
12-409   Use of the library; regulations
   
12-410   Donations to library
   
12-411   Library property; damaging
   
12-412   Library property; failure to return property; taking property without
permission
§ 12-401 LIBRARY BOARD; MEMBERS.
   The Library Board shall consist of seven members appointed in the manner set
out in the K.S.A. 12-1222. The Mayor shall be ex officio member of the Board in
addition to the seven appointed members.
§ 12-402 LIBRARY BOARD; COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
§ 12-403 LIBRARY BOARD; MEMBERS; ELIGIBILITY.
   No person holding any office with the city shall be a member of the Board.
All members of the Board shall be residents of the city.
§ 12-404 LIBRARY BOARD; ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS.
   The members of the Library Board shall, immediately after their appointment
and annually thereafter, meet and organize by the election of a Chairperson, a
Secretary and a Treasurer and such other officers as they may deem necessary.
The Board shall fix the date and place of its regular meetings and special
meetings may be called by the Chairperson or upon written request of a majority
of the members. Written notice, stating the time and place of any special
meeting and the purposes for which called, shall, unless waived, be given each
member of the Board at least two days in advance of such meeting, and no
business other than that stated in the notice shall be transacted at such
meeting.
(K.S.A. 12-1224)
§ 12-405 LIBRARY BOARD; DUTIES.
   The Board shall make and adopt rules and regulations for the administration
of the library. The Board shall have the duties and powers set out in K.S.A.
12-1225.
§ 12-406 LIBRARY BOARD; TREASURER; BOND; DUTIES.
   (a)   (1)   The Treasurer of the Library Board shall give bond, in an amount
set by the Board and approved by the governing body, for the safekeeping and
due disbursement of funds that come into the hands of the Treasurer.
      (2)   The bond shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (b)   The Treasurer shall keep an accurate record of all moneys received and
disbursed by the Treasurer and shall make a monthly report of such to the
Board.
(K.S.A. 12-1226)
§ 12-407 LIBRARY BOARD; ANNUAL REPORT TO GOVERNING BODY.
   (a)   The Board of Directors shall, on or before January 15 of each year,
make an annual report to the governing body, stating the condition of their
trust on December 31 of the year next preceding, and the various sums of money
received from the Library Fund, and from other sources, and how such moneys
have been expended, and for what purposes; the number of books and periodicals
on hand; the number added by purchase, gift or otherwise during the year; the
number lost or missing; the number of visitors attending; the number of books
loaned out and the general character and kind of such books, with such other
statistics, information and suggestions as they may deem of interest.
   (b)   Such report shall be verified by affidavit of the President and
Secretary of the Board.
§ 12-408 LIBRARY BOARD; ANNUAL REPORT TO KANSAS TRAVELING LIBRARY COMMISSION.
   The Board shall make an annual report to the state’s Traveling Library
Commission on or before January 31 of each year for the preceding calendar
year, showing receipts and disbursements from all funds under its control and
showing statistical information in the library materials acquired and on hand,
number of library users and library services available.
(K.S.A. 12-1225)
§ 12-409 USE OF THE LIBRARY; REGULATIONS.
   The library shall be free to the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject
to the rules and regulations adopted by the Board. The Board may exclude from
the use of the library any and all persons who willfully violate the rules and
regulations of the Board. The Board may extend the privileges and use of the
library to persons residing outside of the city, but within the state upon the
terms and conditions prescribed by the Board.
(K.S.A. 12-1227)
§ 12-410 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY.
   Any person desiring to make donations of money, personal property or real
estate for the benefit of such library, shall have the right to vest the title
to the money or real estate donated in the Board of Directors, to be held and
controlled by such Board, according to the terms of the deed, gift, devise or
bequest of such property; and as to such property, the Board shall be held and
considered to be the Special Trustee.
§ 12-411 LIBRARY PROPERTY; DAMAGING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, damage or destroy any book,
map, chart, magazine or any other property belonging to the city library. Any
person violating any provision of this section shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined in any amount not to exceed $100.
§ 12-412 LIBRARY PROPERTY; FAILURE TO RETURN PROPERTY; TAKING PROPERTY WITHOUT
PERMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take any book, magazine or any other
property belonging to the city library from that library, except in accordance
with rules established by the Library Board, or to fail to return property when
requested to do so by the librarian. Any person violating any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed
$100.
ARTICLE 5: JOINT RECREATION COMMISSION
Section
   
12-501   Joint Recreation Commission
   
12-502   Duties; authority
   
12-503   Members; appointment
   
12-504   Organization
   
12-505   Disbursements; claims; funds
§ 12-501 JOINT RECREATION COMMISSION.
   There shall be a Joint Recreation Commission of the city and school district
which shall consist of five members.
(K.S.A. 12-1925, 12-1926)
§ 12-502 DUTIES; AUTHORITY.
   The Commission may operate a system of playgrounds and public recreation
facilities, and may purchase and own equipment and hire such personnel as they
deem necessary and have provided for in their budget.
(K.S.A. 12-1928)
§ 12-503 MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT.
   The governing body shall appoint two members in the manner set out in the
Kansas Statutes Annotated.
§ 12-504 ORGANIZATION.
   The Commission shall organize by electing a chairperson and a secretary from
among the members. The City Treasurer or Treasurer of the School District shall
be ex officio Treasurer of the Commission.
§ 12-505 DISBURSEMENTS; CLAIMS; FUNDS.
   All disbursements made by the Recreation Commission shall be paid by
voucher. All claims paid by the Commission shall be duly verified. Amounts
received from taxes shall be set over to the Commission and used for recreation
purposes.
ARTICLE 6: EUREKA MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
Section
   
12-601   Established
   
12-602   Police powers extended to airport
   
12-603   Permit required
   
12-604   Rental fee
   
12-605   Advisory board
   
12-606   Same; qualifications
§ 12-601 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the Eureka Municipal Airport on land acquired
for the purpose of an airport and described as follows: a tract of land located
in the east half of Section 27, Township 25, Range 10, County of Greenwood,
State of Kansas, described as follows: beginning at the northeast corner of
Section 27, then west along the north line of the section a distance of
2,671.00 feet on a bearing of south 88 degrees 53 feet 00 inches west to the
northwest corner of the half section a distance of 664.00 feet on a bearing of
south 0 degrees 120 feet 13 inches east, then east a distance of 999.68 feet on
a bearing of north 88 degrees 49 feet 30 inches east, thence south a distance
of 2,650.40 feet on a bearing of south 0 degrees 10 feet and 8 inches each,
thence east a distance of 1,659.754 feet on a bearing of north 88 degrees 39
feet 5 inches east to the east line of the half section, then due north along
the east line of the half section a distance of 3,306.87 feet to the point of
beginning, containing 141.73 acres, including the right-of-way for the county
road.
(Ord. 2395, passed - -)
§ 12-602 POLICE POWERS EXTENDED TO AIRPORT.
   The city does hereby extend air its police powers and ordinances pertaining
thereto and over the Eureka Municipal Airport property and grounds to the same
degree and with the same force and effect as if the airport was situated within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 2395, passed - -)
§ 12-603 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall use the Eureka Municipal Airport as a base or terminal for
the carrying on of commercial aviation, nor shall any person engage in the sale
or delivery of oil, gasoline or any other commodity or service within the
confines of the Eureka Municipal Airport without having previously secured a
permit from the governing body of the city and paying such fees or charges as
may be prescribed by the governing body.
(Ord. 2395, passed - -)
§ 12-604 RENTAL FEE.
   An annual rental of $500 shall be charged by the Council for the leasing of
a tract of land 40 feet by 60 feet located at the Municipal Airport and more
specifically designated as lots as shown by the plat of the hangar area of the
airport now on file in the office of the City Clerk. The rental shall be for
the purposes in accordance with the terms established by the city as stated in
the lease agreement executed between the city and the renter.
(Ord. 2860, passed - -; Ord. 4178, passed 1-13-2014; Ord. 4323, passed 9-11-
2023)
§ 12-605 ADVISORY BOARD.
   There shall be and is hereby established an Airport Advisory Board
consisting of six members. The members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the Council.
(Ord. 2395, passed - -)
§ 12-606 SAME; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The members of the Airport Advisory Board shall be qualified electors of the
city and the Council shall serve as a Board of Advisors for airport operations,
maintenance and development.
(Ord. 2395, passed - -)
CHAPTER XIII: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Article
      
1.   SIDEWALKS
      
2.   STREETS
      
3.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
4.   SNOW AND ICE
ARTICLE 1: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
13-101   Permit required
   
13-102   Sidewalk grade
   
13-103   Same; specifications
   
13-104   Same; petition
   
13-105   Same; condemnation, reconstruction
   
13-106   Notice; publication
   
13-107   Right of abutting owner
   
13-108   Repairs by owner or city
   
13-109   Performance, statutory bond
   
13-110   Obstructing sidewalks
   
13-111   Same; exception
§ 13-101 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk within
the city until the plans first have been approved by the governing body and a
permit issued for such work by the City Clerk.
§ 13-102 SIDEWALK GRADE.
   Hereafter, all sidewalks constructed or reconstructed in the city shall be
constructed on the established grade. When the governing body shall order a
sidewalk constructed as hereafter provided, the city shall pay the cost of
bringing the street to grade for the sidewalk. Where no grade has been
established, the owner of abutting property may construct a sidewalk on the
natural grade. If the grade has been established, the City Clerk shall furnish
the property owner with the official grade by reference to a stated distance
above or below the street grade.
(K.S.A. 12-1801, 12-1807)
§ 13-103 SAME; SPECIFICATIONS.
   Hereafter, all sidewalks shall be of single-course construction and shall be
constructed and laid in accordance with standard plans and specifications
hereby adopted by reference and filed in the office of the City Clerk as
provided by K.S.A. 12-1802. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk except as provided
by this article.
§ 13-104 SAME; PETITION.
   When a petition signed by no fewer than ten citizens owning real estate in
the city requesting construction of a sidewalk is filed with the City Clerk,
the governing body may in its discretion, by a resolution, order such sidewalk
constructed as herein provided.
(K.S.A. 12-1803)
§ 13-105 SAME; CONDEMNATION, RECONSTRUCTION.
   When any sidewalk, in the opinion of the governing body, becomes inadequate
or unsafe for travel thereon, the governing body may adopt a resolution
condemning such sidewalk and providing for the construction of a new sidewalk
in the place of the sidewalk condemned.
(K.S.A. 12-1804)
§ 13-106 NOTICE; PUBLICATION.
   The resolution providing for the construction or reconstruction of a
sidewalk, as the case may be, shall give the owner of the abutting property not
less than 30 days nor more than 60 days after its publication one time in the
official city paper in which to construct or cause to be constructed or
reconstructed the sidewalk at his or her own expense. If the sidewalk is not
constructed by the property owner within the time specified, the governing body
shall cause the work to be done by contract.
(K.S.A. 12-1805)
§ 13-107 RIGHT OF ABUTTING OWNER.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the owner of property
abutting on a street, who desires to construct or reconstruct a sidewalk at his
or her own expense and in accordance with official plans and specifications for
the purpose and which meet such other requirements as would have to be met if
the sidewalk were constructed or reconstructed by the city, to construct or
reconstruct a sidewalk without any petition or a condemning resolution by the
governing body. If such property owner desires the sidewalk to be constructed
and reconstructed by the city and an assessment levied as provided by law in
other cases, he or she shall file a request with the governing body. The
governing body, in its discretion, may provide for the construction or
reconstruction of the sidewalk requested in the same manner as in other cases
where citizens or taxpayers petition the governing body.
(K.S.A. 12-1806)
§ 13-108 REPAIRS BY OWNER OR CITY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of the abutting property to keep the
sidewalk in repair, but the city may, after giving five days’ notice to the
owner or his or her agent, if known, of the necessity for making repairs or
without notice if the lot or piece of land is unoccupied, make all necessary
repairs at any time. The same shall be done and the cost thereof assessed
against the lot or piece of land abutting on the sidewalk so repaired as may be
provided by law.
(K.S.A. 12-1808)
§ 13-109 PERFORMANCE, STATUTORY BOND.
   In any case where the reconstruction or construction of a sidewalk is
required to be done by contract as provided in §
13-106 hereof, the governing body may require the contractor to give a bond for
the faithful performance of the contract and for the construction of the
sidewalk in accordance with the plans and specifications, ordinances of the
city or laws of the state, and for all contracts exceeding $1,000 entered into
by the city for any such purpose, a statutory lien bond required by K.S.A. 60-
1111 shall be furnished.
§ 13-110 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or construct any step or other
obstruction, whether temporary or permanent, or to store, leave or allow to be
left any implements, tools, merchandise, goods, containers, benches, display or
show cases, on any sidewalks or other public ways in the city or to obstruct
the same longer than is necessary for loading or unloading any such article or
object.
§ 13-111 SAME; EXCEPTION.
   The governing body may authorize the granting of temporary permits in
connection with a building or moving permit for limited times only to the owner
of property abutting on any sidewalk to use or encumber such sidewalk or public
way of the city during the construction of any building or improvement thereon.
No permit shall be issued for such purpose until plans for warning and
safeguarding the public during such use of sidewalks shall have been submitted
by the owner or his or her contractor and approved by the governing body.
ARTICLE 2: STREETS
Section
   
13-201   Excavation permit
   
13-202   Same; bond
   
13-203   Same; filed
   
13-204   Same; barricades
   
13-205   Same; unlawful acts
   
13-206   Cutting curbs; pavement
   
13-207   Altering drainage
   
13-208   Unfinished pavement
   
13-209   Using streets
   
13-210   Dangerous objects in
   
13-211   Petroleum products in streets
   
13-212   Discharging water on streets
   
13-213   Burning in streets
   
13-214   Throwing in streets
   
13-215   Hauling loose material
   
13-216   Prohibiting weeds, vegetation and grass clippings from being blown or
deposited onto streets, roads, avenues or highways in the city
§ 13-201 EXCAVATION PERMIT.
   No person, other than authorized city employees, shall dig or excavate any
hole, ditch, trench or tunnel in or under any street, alley, sidewalk, park or
other public property or public easement through private property without first
having secured a permit for such excavation. Application shall be made to the
City Clerk.
§ 13-202 SAME; BOND.
   (a)   No permit authorized in this article shall be issued until the
applicant has given to the city a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $5,000
conditioned that the applicant will faithfully comply with all the terms and
conditions of this article, and will indemnify and hold the city harmless
against all costs, expenses, damages and injuries by persons or by the city
sustained by reason of the carelessness or negligence of the permit holder. No
bond for this purpose shall run for longer than two years without being
renewed. The bond shall remain in full force and effect as to each excavation
for two years after the same has been made or completed.
   (b)   Any utility operating under a franchise or a contractor under contract
with the city for municipal improvement shall not be required to give bond as
provided in subsection (a) above.
   (c)   Each bond given under this section shall be approved by the City
Attorney and filed with the City Clerk.
§ 13-203 SAME; FILED.
   If the application is approved by the city, the City Clerk shall issue a
permit upon payment of a fee of $20. Each permit issued under the provisions of
this section shall cover only one specified excavation.
(Ord. 4173, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 13-204 SAME; BARRICADES.
   Any person to whom an excavation permit is issued shall enclose all
excavations that he or she make with sufficient barricades and danger signs at
all times, and shall maintain sufficient warning lights or flares at nighttime.
The holder of an excavation permit shall take all necessary precautions to
guard the public against all accidents from the beginning of the work to the
completion of the same.
§ 13-205 SAME; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those having authority from the
city or any officer thereof to throw down, interfere with or remove any
barriers, barricades or lights placed in any street to guard and warn the
traveling public of any construction work thereon or adjacent thereto.
§ 13-206 CUTTING CURBS; PAVEMENT.
   (a)   No person shall cut any curb, gutter, pavement, blacktop or sidewalk,
or excavate any street, alley or other public grounds of the city for any
purpose without first obtaining a permit authorizing the same from the City
Clerk.
   (b)   Once the work for which the excavation was made has been completed,
the city shall restore the pavement, blacktop, sidewalk or other surfacing at
the expense of the person from whom the excavation was made.
   (c)   In lieu of the city replacing pavement, it may elect to authorize
utility companies or contractors to resurface streets or sidewalks with like
materials, subject to approval of the Street Superintendent.
§ 13-207 ALTERING DRAINAGE.
   No person shall change or alter any gutter, storm sewer, drain or drainage
structure that has been constructed or is being lawfully maintained or
controlled by the city, unless such change or alteration has been authorized or
directed by the governing body.
§ 13-208 UNFINISHED PAVEMENT.
   No person shall walk upon, drive or ride over or across any pavement,
sidewalk or incomplete grading that has not been opened for traffic.
§ 13-209 USING STREETS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy any portion of any street, alley or sidewalk
for the purpose of temporarily storing building materials without first
obtaining a permit for such temporary use from the governing body.
   (b)   No person may use any portion of any sidewalk or street right-of-way
for the purpose of displaying or offering for sale wares, goods, merchandise or
other items. Nothing in this article, however, shall be construed as
prohibiting the city governing body from temporarily waiving the prohibition of
this subsection (b) in connection with community promotions or community-wide
celebrations when such waiver is considered to be in the best interest of the
city.
§ 13-210 DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw, or cause to be placed
or thrown in or on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public grounds of the
city, any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, wire or other dangerous objects that
might wound any person or animal, or cut or puncture any pneumatic tire while
passing over the same.
§ 13-211 PETROLEUM PRODUCTS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit or throw
any waste oil, fuel oil, kerosene, gasoline or other products of petroleum or
any acids into or upon any street or public grounds of the city, or willfully
to permit the same to be spilled, dripped or otherwise to come into contact
with the surface of any street, alley or sidewalk within the city.
§ 13-212 DISCHARGING WATER ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to throw or
discharge water into any ditch, street, avenue or alley in the city or to cause
any water to stand or form pools or to flow in a stream thereon. This section
shall not apply to persons cleaning or flushing such streets, avenues or alleys
under the authority of the governing body, nor to members of the Fire
Department.
§ 13-213 BURNING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or cause to be made, any fire
upon any of the paved streets, alleys or street intersections within the city.
§ 13-214 THROWING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or bat any ball, stone or other hard substance
into, on or across any street or alley or at or against any building or
vehicle.
§ 13-215 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful to haul over the streets or alleys of this city any
loose material of any kind except in a vehicle so constructed or maintained as
to prevent the splashing or spilling of any of the substances therein contained
upon the streets or alleys.
§ 13-216 PROHIBITING WEEDS, VEGETATION AND GRASS CLIPPINGS FROM BEING BLOWN OR
DEPOSITED ONTO STREETS, ROADS, AVENUES OR HIGHWAYS IN THE CITY.
   (a)   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person to cut, deposit or
sweep his or her grass or lawn in such a manner as to allow weeds, vegetation
or grass clippings to be deposited onto any street, sidewalk, roadway, avenue
or highway within the city limits.
   (b)   Definition of STREET OR SIDEWALK for the purpose of this section shall
include alleyways.
   (c)   Upon a notification from an individual employed by the city of a
potential violation or an investigation by the city whereupon the accused
person is found in violation of any provision of this section, shall upon
conviction thereof, be fined in a sum of no less than $25 and not to exceed
$100 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days upon conviction. The offender
shall be fined per day until the violation is corrected. If the city cleans the
vegetation from the street or sidewalk to prevent damage to drainage system,
the offender shall be fined $100.
   (d)   Liability for fines under this section for the purposes of the
landlord/tenant relationship shall be governed by the lease agreement upon who
is responsible for maintenance of the offending debris. When such an agreement
is absent either from a written lease agreement of the absence of a lease
agreement overall, the responsibility shall lie with whoever caused such
violation to occur.
   (e)   For the purposes of commercial landscape for hire, including but
limited to moving, debris removal, and overall maintenance of the exterior of
the dwelling, responsibility for fines assessed for violation of this chapter
shall be the responsibly of the homeowner and individual hired to work for the
dwelling. For the purpose of this section, a commercial landscape for hire
shall be defined as any individual hired for any type of compensation to
conduct work on the exterior of a dwelling.
(Ord. 4240, passed 9-24-2018)
ARTICLE 3: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
13-301   Public tree care
   
13-302   Diseased trees; determination
   
13-303   Same; notice served
   
13-304   Same; failure of owner; duty of city
   
13-305   Same; prevent spread of disease
   
13-306   Dangerous, dead or diseased trees on private property
   
13-307   Trees on public property; cost borne by city
   
13-308   Costs on tax rolls
   
13-309   Injuring trees and shrubs
   
13-310   Fire hydrants, plantings adjacent to
   
13-311   Tree Board
§ 13-301 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure safety when servicing
city utilities or to preserve the symmetry and beauty of public grounds. The
city may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof that
is in an unsafe condition or, by reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements, or
is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
§ 13-302 DISEASED TREES; DETERMINATION.
   Whenever any competent city authority or competent state or federal
authority shall file with the governing body a statement in writing based upon
a laboratory test or other supporting evidence that trees or tree materials or
shrubs located upon private property within the city are infected or infested
with or harbor any tree or plant disease or insect or larvae, the uncontrolled
presence of which may constitute a hazard to or result in the damage or
extinction of other trees or shrubs in the community, describing the same and
where located, the governing body shall direct the City Clerk to forthwith
issue notice requiring the owner or agent of the owner of the premises to treat
or to remove any such designated tree, tree material or shrub within a time
specified in the notice.
§ 13-303 SAME; NOTICE SERVED.
   Notice shall be served by a police officer by delivering a copy thereof to
the owner and the person in possession of such property, or if the same be
unoccupied or the owner a nonresident of the city, then the City Clerk shall
notify the owner by mailing a notice by certified mail to his or her last known
address.
§ 13-304 SAME; FAILURE OF OWNER; DUTY OF CITY.
   If the owner or agent shall fail to comply with the requirements of the
notice within the time specified in the notice, then the Chief of Police shall
proceed to have the designated tree, tree material or shrub, treated or removed
and report the cost thereof to the City Clerk. In lieu of city employees
performing any such work, the governing body may contract with any competent
person, company or corporation for the performance of such work.
§ 13-305 SAME; PREVENT SPREAD OF DISEASE.
   No tree, tree materials or shrubs as mentioned herein that have been cut
down, either by the property owner or by the city, shall be permitted to remain
on the premises, but shall be immediately treated, removed and burned or
immediately burned upon the premises, if safe to do so, so as to prevent the
spread of the tree disease.
§ 13-306 DANGEROUS, DEAD OR DISEASED TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of 14 feet above the surface of the street
or right-of-way. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees,
or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the
public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from the street light, interferes with visibility of any traffic control device
or sign, or obstructs any vehicles’ clear passage in that traffic lane.
   (b)   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dangerous,
dead or diseased trees on private property within the city, when such trees
constitute a hazard to life and property. The city will notify in writing the
owners of such trees by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense
within 15 days after the date of service of notice. The owners, within ten days
of the notice, may request a hearing covering the ordered removal. In the event
of failure of the owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have
the authority to remove the trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner’s
property tax notice.
   (c)   In addition to or as an alternative to the remedy in subsection (b)
above, if the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property has neither
alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor requested a hearing
within the time periods specified in subsection (b), the public officer may
file a complaint in the Municipal Court of the city against such person and,
upon conviction of any violation of the provisions of subsection (a) above,
such person may be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, be imprisoned not to
exceed 30 days, or both fined and imprisoned. Each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues after notice has been served shall constitute an
additional or separate offense.
(Ord. 4164, passed 7-22-2013; Ord. 4336, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 13-307 TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; COST BORNE BY CITY.
   The city shall have the authority to treat or to remove any tree as defined
in §
13-301 , or to remove any dead tree as mentioned herein, which is located
within the limits of any public right-of-way within the city. The adjacent
property owners shall not be responsible for the cost of treatment or removal
of any such trees within the public right-of-way and this expense shall be
borne by the city at large.
§ 13-308 COSTS ON TAX ROLLS.
   The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes to the
County Clerk, certify the unpaid costs for treatment or removal performed under
the authority of §§
13-304 to
13-306 and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll of the county
against the lot or parcel of ground. The cost of such work shall be paid from
the General Fund or other proper fund of the city, and such fund shall be
reimbursed when payments therefor are received or when such assessments are
collected and received by the city.
§ 13-309 INJURING TREES AND SHRUBS.
   No person shall willfully break, cut, take away, destroy, injure, mutilate
or attempt to willfully break, cut, take away, destroy, injure or mutilate any
tree, shrub, vine, flower or landscaping standing, growing, or being upon the
premises in the possession of another, or growing on any public ground, street,
sidewalk, promenade or park in the city.
§ 13-310 FIRE HYDRANTS, PLANTINGS ADJACENT TO.
   No person shall plant, or cause to be planted, nor allow to grow upon
property owned by him or her any shrubs, trees or planting of any kind within
ten feet of any fire hydrant in the city, in order that every fire hydrant
shall be in full view day or night to fire apparatus approaching from any
direction.
§ 13-311 TREE BOARD.
   (a)   Creation and establishment. There is hereby created and established a
City Tree Board for the city which shall consist of six members, citizens and
residents of the city, who shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of
the City Council.
   (b)   Term of office. The term of the six persons to be appointed by the
Mayor shall be three years; except that, the term of two of the members
appointed to the first Board shall be for only one year and the term of two
members of the first Board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy
shall occur during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be
appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (c)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (d)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel and develop and/or update annually a written plan for the care,
preservation, trimming, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs in public ways, streets and alleys. Such plan will be presented
annually to the City Council and upon their acceptance and approval shall
constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for the city.
      (2)   The Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or
question coming within the scope of its work.
   (e)   Operation. The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules
and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 2572, passed - -)
ARTICLE 4: SNOW AND ICE
Section
   
13-401   Snow and ice to be removed
   
13-402   Same: exception; alternate remedy
   
13-403   Same; penalty
   
13-404   Removal may be made by city
   
13-405   Costs on tax rolls
§ 13-401 SNOW AND ICE TO BE REMOVED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or the occupant of any lots
abutting upon any sidewalks to fail to cause to be removed from such sidewalks
all snow and ice within 12 hours from the time that the snow fall or ice storm
ceases. If the snow falls or ice accumulates upon the sidewalks in the
nighttime, removal of same must be made within 12 hours after sunrise on the
following day.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place snow removed from private
property upon any public street, alley or sidewalk.
§ 13-402 SAME: EXCEPTION; ALTERNATE REMEDY.
   Where there shall be ice or compacted snow on any such sidewalk of such a
character as to make it practically impossible to remove the same, the
sprinkling of ashes, sand or other noncorrosive chemicals on the accumulation
of ice or snow in such a manner as to make such sidewalk reasonably safe for
pedestrian travel shall be deemed a sufficient compliance with the provisions
of this article until the ice or snow can be removed.
§ 13-403 SAME; PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
13-401 shall, upon conviction, be fined $25.
§ 13-404 REMOVAL MAY BE MADE BY CITY.
   If any owner or occupant of any lot or lots shall refuse or neglect to clean
or remove from the sidewalk abutting the lot or lots all snow and ice within
the time specified, the city may cause such snow and ice to be removed from
sidewalks and the cost thereof shall be assessed against such abutting lot or
lots, and the City Clerk shall certify the same to the County Clerk for
collection as provided by law.
§ 13-405 COSTS ON TAX ROLLS.
   The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes to the
County Clerk, certify the unpaid costs for removal of snow or ice performed
under the authority of §
13-404 and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll of the county
against the lot or parcel of ground. The cost of such work shall be paid from
the General Fund or other proper fund of the city, and such fund shall be
reimbursed when payments therefor are received or when such assessments are
collected and received by the city.
CHAPTER XIV: TRAFFIC
   Article
      
1.   STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
      
2.   LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
3.   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
4.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
      
5.   BICYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS
      
6.   GOLF CARTS, UTILITY VEHICLES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, POCKET BIKES AND
MOTORIZED SCOOTERS
ARTICLE 1: STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
Section
   
14-101   Incorporating Standard Traffic Ordinance
   
14-102   Traffic infractions and traffic offenses
   
14-103   Penalty for scheduled fines
§ 14-101 INCORPORATING STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating
traffic within the corporate limits of the City of Eureka, Kansas, that certain
standard traffic ordinance known as the “Standard Traffic Ordinance for Kansas
Cities,” Edition of 2025, prepared and published in book form by the League of
Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas, save and except those sections as are
hereafter omitted. No fewer than three copies of said Standard Traffic
Ordinance shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No.
4342,” with those sections intended to be omitted clearly marked to show any
such omission and to which shall be attached a copy of the ordinance codified
herein and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to
the public at all reasonable hours. The Police Department, Municipal Judge and
all administrative departments of the city charged with enforcement of the
ordinance shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such number of official
copies of such Standard Traffic Ordinance similarly marked, as maybe deemed
expedient.
(Ord. 4228, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 4342, passed 8-25-2025)
§ 14-102 TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS AND TRAFFIC OFFENSES.
   (a)   An ordinance traffic infraction is a violation of any section of this
article that prescribes or requires the same behavior as that prescribed or
required by a statutory provision that is classified as a traffic infraction in
K.S.A. 8-2118.
   (b)   All traffic violations which are included within this article, and
which are not ordinance traffic infractions as defined in subsection (a) of
this section, shall be considered traffic offenses.
(Ord. 4228, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 4342, passed 8-25-2025)
§ 14-103 PENALTY FOR SCHEDULED FINES.
   The fine for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction, or any other
traffic offense for which the Municipal Judge establishes a fine in a fine
schedule, shall not be less than $7.50 nor more than $1,000. A person tried and
convicted for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or other traffic
offense for which a fine has been established in a schedule of fines shall pay
a fine fixed by the court not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 4228, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 4342, passed 8-25-2025)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
14-201   Traffic control devices and markings
   
14-202   Careless driving; penalty
   
14-203   Improper parking; stall parking; penalty
   
14-204   Through streets
   
14-205   Stop intersections
   
14-206   Yield right-of-way; sign locations
   
14-207   Angle parking
   
14-208   No-parking zones
   
14-209   Main traffic ways
   
14-210   Same; traffic way connections
   
14-211   Turning restrictions
   
14-212   No-parking zones; Main Street
   
14-213   Weight regulations
   
14-214   Jake brakes; prohibited; penalty
   
14-215   No passing
   
14-216   One-way streets
   
14-217   Truck routes
§ 14-201 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS.
   (a)   The Standard Traffic Ordinance as adopted is hereby modified by adding
thereto the following: the governing body may, by resolution, establish and fix
the location of such traffic control devices as may be deemed necessary to
guide and warn traffic under the provisions of this chapter, other traffic
ordinances and the state laws.
   (b)   The city shall place and maintain such traffic control signs, signals
and devices when and as may be required by the authority of the governing body
to make effective the provisions of this chapter and other ordinances for the
regulation of traffic.
   (c)   Any official traffic control device placed pursuant to this section
shall be marked and labeled on a map of the city for the purpose of displaying
all such traffic control devices and shall be filed with the City Clerk to be
open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours of
business.
§ 14-202 CARELESS DRIVING; PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a vehicle upon any
street or alley or driveway in a careless or heedless manner or without due
caution and circumspection or in a manner so as needlessly to endanger or to be
likely to endanger any person or property.
§ 14-203 IMPROPER PARKING; STALL PARKING; PENALTY.
   (a)   On all streets and public areas where parking spaces for vehicles are
designated by lines or markings on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be
parked within the lines or markings.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle across or upon any such line
or marking or to park any vehicle in such position that the same shall not be
entirely within the area designated by such line or marking. Any person
violating the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined in any sum not exceeding $25.
§ 14-204 THROUGH STREETS.
   In accordance with the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and when signs are
erected giving notice thereof, drivers of vehicles shall stop as the sign
directors at every intersection before entering any of the following streets or
parts of streets, which are hereby designated through streets:
   (a)   Main Street from River Street to Sixteenth Street and from River
Street to Vermont Street;
   (b)   River Street (Highway No. 54) from the west city limits to the east
city limit;
   (c)   Poplar Street from River Street to Thirteenth Street;
   (d)   Thirteenth Street from Main Street to Poplar Street and from Main
Street to State Street;
   (e)   Jefferson Street from River Street to Seventh Street and from River
Street to the south city limits;
   (f)   7th Street from Poplar Street to Main Street and from Main Street to
the east city limits;
   (g)   State Street from Seventh Street to the north city limits; and
   (h)   3rd Street from Main Street to Jefferson Street.
§ 14-205 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   In accordance with the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and when signs are
erected giving notice thereof, drivers of vehicles shall stop as the sign
directs as follows:
   (a)   All traffic entering Second Street from School Street shall stop
before entering;
   (b)   All traffic entering Third Street from School Street shall stop before
entering;
   (c)   All traffic entering Fifth Street from School Street shall stop before
entering;
   (d)   All traffic entering Ninth Street from School Street shall stop before
entering;
   (e)   All traffic entering Second Street from Elm Street shall stop before
entering;
   (f)   All traffic entering Third Street from Elm Street shall stop before
entering;
   (g)   All traffic entering Fourth Street from Elm Street shall stop before
entering;
   (h)   All traffic entering Fifth Street from Elm Street shall stop before
entering;
   (i)   All traffic entering Elm Street from Sixteenth Street shall stop
before entering;
   (j)   All traffic entering Maple Street from First Street shall stop before
entering;
   (k)   All traffic entering Third Street from Oak Street shall stop before
entering;
   (l)   All traffic entering Fourth Street from Oak Street, Walnut Street,
Sycamore Street, Pine Street and Poplar Street shall stop before entering;
   (m)   All traffic traveling east and west on Vermont Street shall stop at
High Street before proceeding; and
   (n)   All traffic going North on Elm Street shall stop at 10th street and
traffic traveling south on Elm Street to 10th street shall stop before
proceeding.
(Ord. 2607, passed - -; Ord. 2962, passed - -; Ord. 3242, passed - -; Ord.
4162, passed 3-25-2013; Ord. 4185, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 14-206 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY; SIGN LOCATIONS.
   In accordance with the Standard Traffic Ordinance and when signs are erected
giving notice thereof, drivers of vehicles shall yield the right-of-way as
follows:
   (a)   All traffic entering Elm Street from Ninth Street shall yield the
right-of-way;
   (b)   All traffic entering Second Street from Walnut Street shall yield the
right-of-way;
   (c)   All traffic entering First Street from Oak Street shall yield the
right-of-way; and
   (d)   All traffic entering Fifth Street from Mulberry Street shall yield the
right-of-way.
§ 14-207 ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle parking at the angle indicated on the curb, sidewalk or pavement or by
signs is hereby permitted on the following streets:
   (a)   Main Street between Second Street and Seventh Street;
   (b)   Second Street between Elm Street and Oak Street;
   (c)   Third Street between Oak Street and Main Street and the south side of
Third Street between Main Street and Elm Street and the north side of Third
Street from Elm Street to a point 15 feet each of Main Street;
   (d)   Fourth Street between Elm and Main Street and on the south side of
Fourth Street from Main to 250 feet west of Main Street;
   (e)   Main Street from First Street south 150 feet, west side only;
   (f)   Main Street from Ohio to River Street, east side only;
   (g)   Ohio Street from Walnut to Oak Street, south side only;
   (h)   Oak Street from Ohio to Vermont Street, west side only;
   (i)   Elm Street form Sixth to Seventh Street, west side only and except the
south 200 feet;
   (j)   Seventh Street from School to Mulberry Street, south side only;
   (k)   Sixth Street from Main Street 150 feet east, north side only;
   (l)   Seventh street from Sycamore to Pine Street, south side only;
   (m)   Mulberry Street from Second to Third Street, east side only;
   (n)   Maple Street from Fourth to Fifth Street, east side only;
   (o)   Fifth Street from Maple to Greenwood Street, south side only;
   (p)   Fourth Street from Maple to Greenwood Street, north side only;
   (q)   Sixth Street from St. Nicholas to Myrtle Street, south side only;
   (r)   Oak Street from First to Fourth Street, east side only;
   (s)   Twelfth Street between Main and Oak Street, north side only; and
   (t)   Elm Street from 100 feet south of Third Street to 100 feet north of
Third street, west side only.
§ 14-208 NO-PARKING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle at any time in any of the
following areas:
   (a)   River Street and Highway No. 54;
   (b)   On the north side of Third Street from Main Street to 25 feet east of
Main Street; and
   (c)   On the south side of Fourth Street between Oak Street and Poplar
Street.
(Ord. 3229, passed - -; Ord. 3241, passed - -)
§ 14-209 MAIN TRAFFIC WAYS.
   The following streets: First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Seventh,
Thirteenth, Jefferson (also known as County Road #13), Main, Poplar and
Vermont, all in the city be and same are hereby declared to be main traffic
ways.
(Ord. 2838, passed - -)
§ 14-210 SAME; TRAFFIC WAY CONNECTIONS.
   Those certain portions, as described, of the following streets:
   (a)   Sixth Street from Elm Street to School Street, from School Street to
Mulberry Street and from Maple Street to Jefferson Street;
   (b)   Eighth Street from Sycamore Street to Oak Street, from Oak Street to
Main Street, from Elm Street to Mulberry Street and from Poplar Street to Pine
Street;
   (c)   Ninth Street from Poplar Street to Oak Street, from Oak Street to Main
Street, and from School Street to Mulberry Street;
   (d)   Tenth Street from Main Street to School Street and from School Street
to Mulberry Street;
   (e)   Eleventh Street from Walnut Street to Main Street and from Main Street
to School Street;
   (f)   Twelfth Street from Walnut Street to Main Street and from Main Street
to School Street;
   (g)   Fourteenth Street from Oak Street to Main Street, and from Main Street
to Elm Street;
   (h)   Academy Street from Thirteenth Street to Main Street and from Main
Street to Elm Street;
   (i)   Elm Street from Ninth Street to Thirteenth Street and from Ohio Street
to the city limits;
   (j)   High Street from River Street to the city limits; and
   (k)   Illinois Street from Vermont Street to the city limits.
(Ord. 2838, passed - -)
§ 14-211 TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to turn such vehicle
across the center line of any street within the city for the purpose of parking
on the street or for the purpose of reaching the opposite side of the street;
provided, however, that the provisions hereof shall not be construed as to
prohibit authorized U-turns at intersections not restricted by other ordinances
of the city.
(Ord. 2843, passed - -)
§ 14-212 NO-PARKING ZONES; MAIN STREET.
   (a)   Whenever signs are erected giving notice thereof it shall be unlawful
to park or permit to be parked any vehicle on Main Street in the city between
the intersections of Main and River and Main and Seventh Streets between the
hours of 12:00 midnight to 5:00 a.m. on Tuesday.
   (b)   Any person violating the provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined any sum not exceeding $25.
(Ord. 3088, passed - -)
§ 14-213 WEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
any vehicle having a gross weight in excess of 10,000 pounds upon any of the
following streets in the city: Marriott Drive; Mission Road; and Village Lane;
provided, however, that the provisions of this article shall not apply to the
following vehicles:
      (1)   Vehicles being operated for the purpose of collecting garbage and/
or trash from the residences located on the named streets; and
      (2)   Vehicles being used as moving vans or delivery vehicles when the
vehicles are being operated for the purpose of delivering items to or from
those residences located on the named streets.
   (b)   The prohibitions imposed by this section shall be applicable only when
the named streets are properly signed, making it clearly visible to the users
thereof, that such traffic is prohibited.
(Ord. 3208, passed - -)
§ 14-214 JAKE BRAKES; PROHIBITED; PENALTY.
   (a)   The term JAKE BRAKE, as used herein shall mean any device commonly
known by that name or any similar device used to slow a motor vehicle by engine
compression, creating loud or excessive noises to be emitted through the
vehicle’s exhaust system.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle within
the limits of the city to use a “Jake Brake” system installed in said motor
vehicle.
   (c)   Any person found in violation of this provision shall be deemed guilty
of a non-moving traffic violation and punished by a fine of not less than $20,
nor more than $100.
(Ord. 3914, passed - -)
§ 14-215 NO PASSING.
   (a)   PASS or PASSING, used in reference to a vehicle, means to overtake and
proceed past another vehicle moving in the same direction as the passing
vehicle or to attempt that maneuver.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to pass any motor vehicle at any time in any of
the following areas:
      (1)   Entering Jefferson Street from the intersection of US 54 Highway to
the intersection of Jefferson and 7th Streets and Jefferson and 7th Streets
north to the city limits, (or entering Jefferson Street from US 54 Highway
North to the city limits);
      (2)   Entering 7th Street from Main Street to the north intersection of
Jefferson Street; and
      (3)   Entering the entire length of Main Street.
(Ord. 4187, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 14-216 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (a)   The governing body of the city hereby designates the alley between
Main Street and Oak Street and extending from 1st Street to River Street (US
Highway 54) as a one-way alley for southbound traffic.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on the
alleys, designated in subsection (a) in a direction other than that designated.
   (c)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as follows:
      (1)   Fined in a sum of not less than $1 nor more than $100 or by
imprisonment in the city jail for not less than one day nor more than 30 days,
or by both such fine and imprisonment; or
      (2)   Be prohibited from driving or operating any automobile, motorcycle
or other motor vehicle upon any street, avenue, lane or alley of the city for
such period as the police judge may order, not exceeding two years. Provided,
that the municipal judge may, in his or her discretion, for the violation of
any provision of this chapter, sentence any violator to attend not more than
six duly convened sessions of the traffic school established by the Sheriff’s
Office, in addition to the penalties otherwise prescribed.
(Ord. 4188, passed 9-22-2014)
§ 14-217 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (a)   This section shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Eureka’s
Truck Route Ordinance”.
   (b)   (1)   This section is enacted under the statutory authority of the
city and the general powers of the city. The purpose of this section is to
prohibit truck traffic upon any street of the city, except those designated by
the governing body of the city in this section, and such other streets as may
be hereinafter designated by the city, which shall be designated as a committed
truck route for all such vehicles.
      (2)   It is the further purpose of this section to protect the streets of
the city and to protect the health and safety of the citizens using such
roadways.
   (c)   This section shall apply to and be enforced in all areas of the city.
   (d)   (1)   Truck routes may be established within the city by the Mayor at
such time or times as the Mayor shall deem fit because of construction, for
security reasons or in times of emergency. Upon a determination by the Mayor
that truck routes are needed for the benefit of the city, the Mayor shall
designate certain streets as truck routes and said streets designated as truck
routes shall be properly identified and posted as truck routes within the city
and shall be so designated, identified and posted ten days prior to the
effective date of said designation and identification.
      (2)   However, in the event that an emergency exists in the opinion of
the Mayor, the Mayor may cause truck routes to be immediately instituted. In
such an event, the Mayor shall immediately cause the institution of said
emergency truck routes to be noted in the official newspaper of the city and
the Mayor shall immediately notify all local radio and television stations of
the institution of said emergency truck routes.
   (e)   (1)   The Greenwood County Sheriff’s Department is hereby empowered to
issue uniform traffic citations, court summonses, arrests or to issue written
corrective notices to drivers, owners and/or agents violating any provision of
this section and may serve or execute all warrants and other process issued by
the city in enforcing the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Violation of the provision of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor by the driver and may be punished by fine as follows, in the sole
discretion of the City Municipal Court, as follows:
         (A)   First offense: $50;
         (B)   Second offense within 12 consecutive months: $100; and
         (C)   Third or subsequent offense, within 12 consecutive months: $500.
(Ord. 4106, passed 4-28-2008)
ARTICLE 3: ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
14-301   Definitions
   
14-302   Impounding vehicles
   
14-303   Same
   
14-304   Notice of impoundment; storage of vehicle
   
14-305   Impoundment after request to leave motor vehicle
   
14-306   Release of motor vehicle from impoundment
   
14-307   Hearing
   
14-308   Charges constitute a lien
   
14-309   Satisfaction of lien; notice of public sale
   
14-310   Redemption
   
14-311   Sale proceeds
   
14-312   Statutory procedures
   
14-313   Implementation of article
   
14-314   Reimbursement for discharged liens
§ 14-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel. Where the word highway or the word street is used in this
article, it means street, avenue, boulevard, thoroughfare, alley and other
public way for vehicular travel by whatever name, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
   OWNER or OCCUPANT. A party having fee simple title in the real property, or
a party having a leasehold interest in the real property, or a party who is the
beneficiary of a private easement for the purpose of egress or ingress to or
from said real property.
§ 14-302 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   The Police Department may cause to be impounded:
   (a)   Any motor vehicle unlawfully parked on a highway in violation of any
provision of a city ordinance which prohibits the parking of vehicles at the
place where or time when the impounded motor vehicle is found;
   (b)   Any motor vehicle that has been abandoned and left on a highway or
other property open to use by the public for a period in excess of 48 hours
pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1102;
   (c)   Any motor vehicle which:
      (1)   Is subject to removal pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1102 or 8-1570;
      (2)   Is subject to seizure and forfeiture under the laws of the state;
or
      (3)   Is subject to being held for use as evidence in a criminal trial.
   (d)   Any motor vehicle, the continued presence of which, because of the
physical location or condition of the motor vehicle, poses a danger to the
public safety or to the motor vehicle; and
   (e)   (1)   Any motor vehicle which has been abandoned or parked on any real
property, other than public property or property open to use by the public, may
be moved and disposed of in accordance with the terms of this article by the
Police Department upon the request of the owner or occupant of such real
property. The real property referred to herein shall not be owned or leased by
the person who abandons or parks said vehicle or by the owner or lessee of such
vehicle. The city or any person, partnership, corporation or their agent
conducting a business enterprise for the purpose of towing vehicles which
removes such vehicle from the real property at the request of the Police
Department shall have a possessory lien on such vehicle for the cost incurred
in removing, towing and storing such vehicle.
      (2)   For purposes of this article, common areas shall be construed not
to mean public property or property open to the public.
§ 14-303 SAME.
   The Police Department may authorize storage of such impounded motor vehicles
at any location, public or private, which is zoned for the storage of motor
vehicles.
§ 14-304 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT; STORAGE OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   When owner present.
      (1)   When the Police Department intends to impound a motor vehicle
pursuant to §
14-302 and the owner of the motor vehicle is then present, the Police
Department shall before the motor vehicle is removed, provide the owner with a
notice, in the form prescribed by the Police Department that the motor vehicle
is being impounded, that towing and storage charges will be assessed against
the impounded motor vehicle, that the owner may claim and regain possession of
the impounded motor vehicle at the location to which it is being removed for
storage without prepayment of towing and storage charges and that the owner may
request a hearing as to the propriety of the impoundment and as to the amount
of and the owner’s liability for the towing and storage charges. The notice
shall also state the location where the impounded motor vehicle will be stored
and the place where the owner may make his or her request for the hearing. The
notice shall also state, in prominent language, that failure by the owner to
request a hearing within five days after receipt of the notice may act as a
waiver of his or her right to a hearing and that this may result in the placing
of a lien against the motor vehicle for the towing and storage charges without
further notice to the owner; and that the motor vehicle be sold at public
auction to the highest bidder for cash after 15 days from the date of the
mailing of the notice.
      (2)   The owner of the impounded motor vehicle shall sign the notice as
an acknowledgment that he or she has received a copy of the notice and a copy
of the notice shall be provided to the owner.
   (b)   When owner not present.
      (1)   When the Police Department impounds and removes a motor vehicle
pursuant to §
14-302 (a) and the owner of the motor vehicle is not present at the time of the
impoundment, the Police Department shall, if such motor vehicle has displayed
thereon a registration plate issued by the Division of Vehicles and has been
registered with said Division, mail a notice by certified mail to the
registered owner thereof, addressed to the address as shown on the certificate
of registration, and to the lien holder, if any; of record in the county in
which the title shows the owner resides, if registered in the state. The notice
shall be in the form prescribed by the Police Department containing the same
information as required by subsection (a) above. The Police Department shall
use reasonable diligence in determining the title owner, or if from a non-title
state, the registered owner, of the vehicle, and shall inquire by mail of the
office of the Register of Deeds of the county in which the title shows the
owner resides, if registered in the state; as to whether there are any lien
holders of record. If the owner cannot be served by certified mail at the
address on the motor vehicle registration and there is no other known address
of the owner, the owner shall be deemed to be a resident of the state whose
whereabouts are unknown and service shall be made on the Secretary of State as
provided in K.S.A. 8-401.
      (2)   If the owner does not reside in the state, as appears from the
motor vehicle registration and the owner cannot be served by certified mail at
the address on the motor vehicle registration and there is no other known
address of the owner, the owner shall be deemed a nonresident of the state and
service shall be made on the Secretary of State as provided in K.S.A. 8-401.
   (c)   Failure or refusal to sign notice. If any person required by this
section to sign a notice of impoundment willfully fails or refuses to do so, or
if such person cannot be found, the Police Department shall note this fact on
the face of the notice, which shall constitute prima facie evidence of delivery
or service of notice as required by this section.
§ 14-305 IMPOUNDMENT AFTER REQUEST TO LEAVE MOTOR VEHICLE.
   In all cases wherein the owner or operator of a motor vehicle which is on a
public street has requested that the motor vehicle be left unattended at that
location, in lieu of impoundment of the motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-302 , the Police Department may honor said request for a period of time not
exceeding 24 hours, after which time the motor vehicle shall either be removed
from the location by the owner or operator or be impounded by the Police
Department pursuant to §
14-304 . The Police Department shall be immune from liability for any damage,
loss or destruction of the motor vehicle occasioned by its being left
unattended pursuant to the request of the owner or operator thereof, in lieu of
impoundment. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority
of the Police Department to order the removal of a motor vehicle by its owner
or operator or to impound a motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-304 at any time whenever, in his or her judgment, the presence of the
unattended motor vehicle constitutes a danger to the public safety.
§ 14-306 RELEASE OF MOTOR VEHICLE FROM IMPOUNDMENT.
   (a)   Generally. Unless the vehicle is impounded pursuant to §
14-302 (b) herein, the owner of an impounded motor vehicle may secure the
release of the motor vehicle from impoundment upon requesting such release and
presenting proof of ownership satisfactory to the custodian of the place where
the motor vehicle is stored. If the custodian is satisfied that the person
making the request is the owner or his or her authorized agent, he or she shall
release the motor vehicle to the owner or his or her agent. Nothing in the
preceding sentence shall preclude the owner of the impounded motor vehicle or
his or her agent from paying any towing and storage charges that may be
assessed against the motor vehicle, but neither the Police Department, nor the
custodian of the storage space, may require payment of any towing or storage
charges as a condition precedent to such release. At the same time as the owner
or his or her agent requests release of the impounded motor vehicle, and if
such request is made with 40 days after the owner receives a copy of the notice
of impoundment, the Police Department shall provide him or her an opportunity
to make a request for a hearing on the propriety of the impoundment and on the
amount and his or her liability for the towing and storage charges occasioned
by the impoundment; provided, that if the owner or his or her agent requests
release of the impounded motor vehicle more than 40 days after the owner
receives a copy of the notice of impoundment, no hearing may be requested on
the impoundment or cm the towing and storage charges and the owner shall be
conclusively presumed to have consented to the impoundment and to the amount of
and his or her liability for the towing and storage charges.
   (b)   Security for payment of charges. If the ownership of the impounded
motor vehicle is evidenced by a title certificate issued by the Kansas
Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles, the owner or his or her agent
may secure the release of the motor vehicle from impoundment without the
payment of any towing or storage charges or the deposit of any security for the
payment thereof. If the ownership of the impounded motor vehicle is evidenced
by a foreign title instrument, or if the jurisdiction in which title is
recorded is not evidenced from the document establishing ownership, the owner
or his or her agent, before the custodian of the place where the motor vehicle
is stored authorizes release of the motor vehicle form impoundment, shall
deposit with the custodian cash in the amount of the towing and storage charges
to the date of the request. If the owner or his or her agent refuses to provide
the cash deposit, the custodian shall not authorize release of the impounded
motor vehicle, but if the request is timely made, a date shall be set for the
hearing on the impoundment and charges.
§ 14-307 HEARING.
   (a)   (1)   If the owner of an impounded motor vehicle or his or her agent
timely requests the release of the motor vehicle from impoundment and a hearing
on the impoundment and charges, as provided in §
14-306 , a date shall be set, not more than five days after the date of
request, for the hearing. The City Attorney shall provide a hearing examiner to
conduct the hearings required by this section.
      (2)   At the hearing, the owner, his or her agent or his or her attorney
shall be afforded an opportunity to present, by oral testimony or documentary
evidence, his or her objections to the impoundment of the motor vehicle and the
amount of the towing and storage charges and his or her liability for the
payment thereof, if the owner or his or her agent requested the hearing more
than five days, but not more than 40 days, after the owner received a copy of
the notice of impoundment, the owner, his or her agent or his or her attorney
shall be required at the hearing, as a condition precedent to the presentation
of any objections by the owner, to show good cause for the delay in making the
request more than five days after the owner received a copy of the notice of
impoundment; if good cause cannot be shown, the hearing officer shall dismiss
the hearing and make the finding stated in subsection (b) below; otherwise, the
hearing examiner shall proceed to hear the owner’s objections.
   (b)   At the conclusion of the hearing on the owner’s objections, the
hearing examiner shall render his or her decision if the hearing examiner:
      (1)   Finds that the impoundment was improper, he or she shall:
         (A)   Find that the owner is not liable for any towing or storage
charges occasioned by the impoundment; and/or
         (B)   Determine whether and to what extent the city shall be the
expense of the towing and storage charges.
      (2)   Finds that the impoundment was proper, he or she shall establish:
         (A)   The amount of the towing and storage charges to be assessed
against the impounded motor vehicle; and
         (B)   The extent of the liability of the owner for payment of the
towing and storage charges so established. The decision of the hearing examiner
shall be final, and a copy of the decision shall be furnished to the owner of
the impounded motor vehicle, to the custodian of the place where the motor
vehicle is stored and to the City Attorney.
   (c)   In the event that the impoundment was pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1102(b),
the owner or occupant of the real property upon which the abandoned vehicle was
located shall not be assessed the costs of towing and storage of the vehicle.
Further, nothing within this article shall be construed to modify or effect the
validity of the possessory lien of the person removing such vehicle from the
real property established by K.S.A. 8-1102(b).
§ 14-308 CHARGES CONSTITUTE A LIEN.
   The towing and storage charges occasioned by the impoundment of a motor
vehicle pursuant to §
14-302 shall be and constitute a lien upon the impounded motor vehicle, except
as provided in this section. If the hearing examiner finds, pursuant to §
14-307 , that the impoundment was improper and, if he or she determines that
the city shall bear part or all of the towing and storage charges, the lien
created by this section shall be discharged, if the hearing examiner finds
pursuant to §
14-306 that the impoundment was proper but that the towing and storage charges
should be in an amount less than the amount of the lien, the lien created by
this section shall be discharged to the extent that it exceeds the amount
established by the hearing examiner. The holder of a lien created by this
section may perfect such lien in any manner provided by law, but he or she may
not retain possession of the motor vehicle when it has been released pursuant
to §
14-306 (a). In the event that the impounded motor vehicle is released from
impoundment and the owner or his or her agent has provided security for payment
of charges as required by §
14-306 (b), the lien created by this section shall, also be a lien against the
security so provided, subject to being wholly or partially discharged as
provided in this section.
§ 14-309 SATISFACTION OF LIEN; NOTICE OF PUBLIC SALE.
   The holder of a lien against a motor vehicle created by §
14-308 , to the extent that such lien has not been discharged as provided in §
14-308 or otherwise satisfied, may enforce such lien in any manner provided by
law after 60 days from the date the motor vehicle is impounded by the police
department if the owner of the motor vehicle or his or her agent has provided
security for the payment of the lien as provided in §
14-306 (b), the lien shall first be satisfied out of the security so provided
and, if any portion of the lien remains unsatisfied and undischarged, may then
be enforced in any manner provided by law. if the motor vehicle against which
the lien is created pursuant to §
14-308 is still under impoundment 60 days from the date it is impounded by the
Police Department and the owner has not requested release of the motor vehicle
from impoundment nor paid the towing and storage charges that are the basis for
the lien, the motor vehicle shall be sold at public sale to the highest and
best bidder for cash to satisfy the lien. Notice of the sale shall be given in
accordance with K.S.A. 8-1102. Publication, required by K.S.A. 8-1102, may be
made before the termination of the 60-day period for a sale thereafter.
§ 14-310 REDEMPTION.
   If the city is to conduct the sale:
   (a)   Any holder of a recorded lien or retained title on a motor vehicle to
be sold by the city under the provisions of §
14-309 may claim and take possession thereof; upon payment of accrued charges
and estimated costs of publication of the notice of sale to the Police
Department and the deposit with the Police Department of sufficient assurance
by surety bond or otherwise, approved by the City Attorney, that the motor
vehicle will be forthcoming for public sale thereof or upon claim of the
rightful owner prior to the sale. The Police Department shall within three
days, make a report to the city treasurer and deliver the charges and costs so
paid to the City Treasurer, taking a receipt therefor and filing it, together
with a duplicate copy of the report to the City Treasurer, with the records in
his or her office. The funds shall be held in a trust account until final
disposition of the motor vehicle. Not less than five days before the date for
sale of the motor vehicle, the Police Department shall notify the lien holder
or retained titleholder of the time and place for the sale, and the lien holder
or retained titleholder shall deliver such motor vehicle to the Police
Department at or before 12:00 noon of the day before the sale. At the sale, the
amount paid shall be credited on the bid of the lien holder or retained
titleholder. If the lien holder or retained titleholder is the successful
bidder for the motor vehicle, the Police Department shall report this fact to
the City Treasurer and then the funds previously paid by the lien holder or
retained titleholder shall be relieved of the trust previously impressed and
become the same as other funds received by the city for storage and costs of
impounded motor vehicles. If the motor vehicle is sold for a higher bid to any
person other than the lien holder or retained titleholder, the Police
Department shall report this fact to the City Treasurer and the lien holder or
retained titleholder shall be refunded the amount previously paid by him or her
out of the trust account.
   (b)   If the rightful owner of the motor vehicle claims the same before the
sale by payment of the accrued charges, the Police Department shall immediately
notify the lien holder or retained titleholder in possession of the motor
vehicle and he or she shall return the same to the Police Department within 12
hours. The Police Department shall report this redemption by the rightful owner
to the City Treasurer and the lien holder or retained titleholder shall be
refunded the amount previously paid by him or her out of the trust account.
§ 14-311 SALE PROCEEDS.
   The proceeds of a public sale held pursuant to §
14-308 whether such sale was conducted by the city or by any other person,
after payment of the towing and storage charges and costs and expenses incident
to the sale, shall be deposited with the City Treasurer, if the owner of the
motor vehicle is absent from the sale, for credit to the trust account. The
funds deposited in the trust account pursuant to this section shall remain in
the account subject to the order of the person legally entitled thereto, but if
no claim is made for these funds within a period of one year after the sale,
the funds shall become the property of the city, be released from the trust
account and be paid into the General Fund as miscellaneous revenues.
§ 14-312 STATUTORY PROCEDURES.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to augment, diminish, supersede
or otherwise interfere with any statutory procedure established by the
legislature for the collection of unpaid towing and storage charges. The
procedures in this article are supplementary and cumulative to any statutory
procedures.
§ 14-313 IMPLEMENTATION OF ARTICLE.
   The Police Department and City Treasurer are authorized to make rules for
the implementation and administration of this article.
§ 14-314 REIMBURSEMENT FOR DISCHARGED LIENS.
   If a lien created by §
14-308 and held by a private wrecker or towing firm is discharged by §
14-308 pursuant to a determination by a hearing examiner that an impoundment
was improper and that the city shall bear part or ail of the towing and storage
charges, the city shall pay to the firm the amount determined by the hearing
examiner. No payment shall be made until it is authorized by the City Attorney.
ARTICLE 4: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
14-401   Hazardous material defined
   
14-402   Same; exceptions
   
14-403   Transportation of hazardous materials
   
14-404   Hazardous materials routes
   
14-405   Parking of vehicles or trailers carrying hazardous materials
   
14-406   Removal of illegally parked trailers
§ 14-401 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DEFINED.
   As used in this article, the term HAZARDOUS MATERIAL shall mean any material
or combination of materials that, because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical, biological or infectious characteristics, poses a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or safety or the
environment if released into the workplace or environment or when improperly
treated, stored, transported or disposed of or otherwise managed.
§ 14-402 SAME; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any container that shall
have a capacity of 150 gallons or less that shall be used for the purpose of
supplying fuel for the vehicle on which it is mounted. These provisions shall
also not apply to vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks containing anhydrous
ammonia or other material primarily used by farmers for fertilizer purposes
when such vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks are parked or housed upon
property designated for the placement of such vehicle, trailer, container or
tank by any farmers cooperative, elevator company or farm supply store located
within the city limits.
§ 14-403 TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Except as provided in §
14-404 , it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to transport any hazardous material upon any street, avenue, highway, road,
alley or any other public right-of-way in the city.
§ 14-404 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ROUTES.
   The provisions of §
14-403 shall apply to all streets, avenues, highways, roadways, alleys or other
public rights-of-way within the city, except those specified within this
section where transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed.
Transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed upon the streets,
avenues, highways or roadways as determined by the city.
§ 14-405 PARKING OF VEHICLES OR TRAILERS CARRYING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) below, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to park any vehicle,
trailer or semi-trailer carrying any hazardous material within any city zoning
districts as defined in
Ch. XVI of this code.
   (b)   Subsection (a) above shall not apply to vehicles, trailers or semi-
trailers parked for continuous periods of time not to exceed one hour where
such vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers are parked along those routes
specified in §
14-404 of this code.
   (c)   Subsection (a) above shall not apply to any vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer carrying any hazardous material where such vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer is not parked within 500 feet of any structure used for human
habitation.
§ 14-406 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED TRAILERS.
   If any vehicle, trailer or a semi-trailer is found parked in violation of
the provisions of this article, the Fire Chief or Assistant Chief or any law
enforcement officer may require the owner, operator or lessee of the trailer to
move it within two hours. If such removal is not accomplished on the order of
any such officer, it may be accomplished by any such officer, by any reasonable
means, if the continued presence of the trailer or semi-trailer at its parked
location constitutes, adds to or prevents correction of a situation threatening
imminent injury or damage to persons or property.
ARTICLE 5: BICYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS
Section
   
14-501   Riding upon sidewalks
   
14-502   Riding upon public parking
   
14-503   Riding; roadways
   
14-504   Penalties
§ 14-501 RIDING UPON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride any bicycle, skateboard, coaster, roller skates or
similar devices upon any public sidewalk within that portion of the city zoned
general business district.
(Ord. 3559, passed - -)
§ 14-502 RIDING UPON PUBLIC PARKING.
   No person shall ride any skateboard, roller skates, coaster or similar
device upon any public parking lot owned and operated by a governmental unit or
upon any property designated as a public park.
(Ord. 3559, passed - -)
§ 14-503 RIDING; ROADWAYS.
   No person shall ride any skateboard, roller skates, coaster or similar
device upon any roadway within the city, except while crossing a street at a
crosswalk and except on streets set aside as play streets as that term is
defined in the Standard Traffic Ordinance adopted by the city.
(Ord. 3559, passed - -)
§ 14-504 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating this article shall be deemed guilty of a code violation
and shall be fined not to exceed $25.
(Ord. 3559, passed - -)
ARTICLE 6: GOLF CARTS, UTILITY VEHICLES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, POCKET BIKES
AND MOTORIZED SCOOTERS
Section
   
14-601   Operation of golf carts
   
14-602   Operation of utility vehicles, utility terrain vehicles, and micro
utility trucks
   
14-603   Prohibition of operation of all-terrain vehicles, pocket bikes, and
motorized scooters
   
14-604   Violations; traffic infraction; penalties
§ 14-601 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (a)   Except as provided herein, golf carts may not be operated upon public
streets, roads, and alleys within the corporate limits of the city.
   (b)   GOLF CART shall be defined as set forth at K.S.A. 8-126(jj) and
amendments thereto.
   (c)   Subject to the terms and conditions contained in this section, golf
carts may be operated on the streets, roads, and alleys within the corporate
limits; except they may not be operated on US 54, otherwise known as River
Street. However, golf carts may cross the above-stated street.
   (d)   Golf carts shall be operated on the streets, roads and alleys during
the hours between sunrise and sunset unless said golf cart is equipped with
working headlights. Golf carts equipped with working headlights are permitted
to be operated at any hour.
   (e)   Prior to operation of golf carts on the streets, roads and alleys of
the city, all golf carts must obtain proper registration from the city and pay
the applicable registration fee of $25 per calendar year, or any part thereof.
Said fee is not prorated. Prior to issuance of such registration, the Sheriff’s
Department shall inspect the golf cart to assure that it is equipped with
sufficient brakes, tail and brake lights, rearview mirror, and a display of
“slow moving vehicle” affixed to the back of the golf cart as required by
Kansas law. Proof of insurance, as required in subsection (g) below, and proof
of payment of personal property taxes to the county shall be furnished at the
time of application to the city for registration. Should the golf cart pass
inspection, a registration sticker will be issued and shall be affixed to the
golf cart.
   (f)   The operator of the golf cart must have in his possession during
operation a valid Kansas driver’s license.
   (g)   Every operator of a golf cart shall provide proof of liability
insurance in accordance with the Standard Traffic Ordinance for Kansas Cities
then in effect, and amendments thereto, and the Kansas Automobile Injury
Reparations Act, K.S.A. 40-3101 et seq., and amendments thereto.
   (h)   No golf cart shall carry more than two occupants per bench seat.
Further, the operator shall not carry any person nor shall any person ride in a
position that will interfere with the operation of the golf cart.
   (i)   A golf cart shall not be operated nor parked upon any sidewalk within
the city.
   (j)   Every person operating a golf cart on the streets, roads and alleys of
the city shall be subject to all laws, rules and regulations governing the
operation of motor vehicles within the city, and all restrictions on the
operation of golf carts as set forth in this section. Should any conflict exist
between the laws regulating motor vehicles and the specific requirements of
golf carts as set forth herein, the terms of this section shall prevail.
(Ord. 4167, passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 4205, passed 1-25-2016; Ord. 4302, 8-22-
2022)
§ 14-602 OPERATION OF UTILITY VEHICLES, UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES AND MICRO
UTILITY TRUCKS.
   (a)   Except as provided herein, work-site utility vehicles, utility terrain
vehicles, and micro utility trucks may not be operated upon public streets,
roads, and alleys within the corporate limits of the city.
   (b)   WORK-SITE UTILITY VEHICLE, UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE and MICRO UTILITY
TRUCK shall be defined as set forth at K.S.A. 8-126(hh) and (ii) and amendments
thereto.
   (c)   The rules and restrictions for operation of work-site utility
vehicles, utility terrain vehicles, and micro utility trucks shall be the same
as those governing the operation of golf carts as set forth at § 14-701. This
class of vehicle is exempt from the requirement of needing a slow moving
vehicle emblem displayed if the vehicle can travel faster than 30 miles per
hour.
   (d)   No more than four persons, including the driver, may be transported in
such vehicle during operation on the streets, roads, and alleys of the city.
(Ord. 4167, passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 4302, passed 8-22-2022)
§ 14-603 PROHIBITION OF OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, POCKET BIKES AND
MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized non-highway vehicle 48 inches or less
in width, having a dry weight of 1,000 pounds or less, traveling on three or
more low-pressure tires, and having a seat to be straddled by the operator. As
used in this subsection, “low-pressure tire” means any pneumatic tire six
inches or more in width, designed for use on wheels with rim diameter of 12
inches or less, and utilizing an operating pressure of ten pounds per square
inch or less as recommended by the vehicle manufacturer.
      MOTORIZED SCOOTER. A vehicle consisting of a footboard between two small
end wheels, controlled by an upright steering handle attached to the front
wheel, and propelled by an electric or gasoline motor.
      POCKET BIKE. Every device having two tandem wheels, or three wheels,
which may be propelled by a gasoline engine and which the headlights are lower
than 24 inches, its tailpipe is lower than 15 inches, and no vehicle
identification number is located on the vehicle nor can ownership of the
vehicle be registered.
   (b)   The operation of all-terrain vehicles, pocket bikes and motorized
scooters on the streets, roads and alleys within the corporate limits of the
city is prohibited.
(Ord. 4167, passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 4302, passed 8-22-2022)
§ 14-604 VIOLATIONS; TRAFFIC INFRACTION; PENALTIES.
   A violation of this article shall be deemed a traffic infraction. Upon an
entry or plea of guilty or no contest, or upon being found guilty of a
violation hereof, the penalty imposed shall be in accordance with the penalty
section of the Standard Traffic Ordinance then in effect for the city.
(Ord. 4167, passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 4302, passed 8-22-2022)
CHAPTER XV: UTILITIES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   WATER
      
3.   SEWERS
      
4.   SOLID WASTE
      
5.   WATER CONSERVATION
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
15-101   Definition
   
15-102   Delinquent accounts
   
15-103   Notice; hearing
   
15-104   Same; finding
   
15-105   Utility deposit
   
15-106   Delinquent accounts; refusal of service; termination of service; lien
against property
   
15-107   Landlord liability; liability of property owner; lien
   
15-108   Petty Cash Fund
   
15-109   Same; deposits
   
15-110   Same; vouchers
§ 15-101 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY SERVICES. Includes water, electrical, sewer, solid waste (refuse)
and other utility services provided by the city.
§ 15-102 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, water, electric, sewer, solid waste (refuse) or
other utility service shall be terminated for nonpayment of service fees or
charges in accordance with §§
15-103 and
15-104.
§ 15-103 NOTICE; HEARING.
   (a)   If a utility bill has not been paid on or before the due date as
provided in this chapter, a delinquency and termination notice shall be issued
by the City Clerk within five days after the delinquency occurs and mailed to
the customer at his or her last known address. A copy also shall be mailed to
the occupant of the premises if the occupant and the customer are not the same
person.
   (b)   The notice shall state:
      (1)   The amount due, plus delinquency charge;
      (2)   Notice that service will be terminated if the amount due is not
paid within ten days from the date of the notice unless the date on the notice
to pay the charges due shall be on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in
which event such notice will give the consumer until the close of the next
business day in which to pay the charges;
      (3)   Notice that the customer has the right to a hearing before the
designated hearing officer; and
      (4)   Notice that the request for a hearing must be in writing and filed
with the City Clerk no later than three days prior to the date for termination
of service.
   (c)   Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the City Clerk shall advise the
customer of the date, time and place of the hearing which shall be held within
three working days following receipt of the request.
(Ord. 3353, passed - -)
§ 15-104 SAME; FINDING.
   Following the hearing, if the Hearing Officer shall find that service should
not be terminated, then notice of such finding shall be presented to the City
Clerk. If the Officer finds that service should be terminated, an order shall
be issued terminating service five days after the date of the order. The
customer shall be notified either in person or by mailing a letter to his or
her last known address by certified mail, return receipt requested, however, if
the order is made at the hearing in the presence of the customer, then no
further notice need be given. The Hearing Officer has a right, for good cause,
to grant an extension, not to exceed ten days, for the termination of such
service.
§ 15-105 UTILITY DEPOSIT.
   (a)   At the time of making application for utility service, the property
owner or customer shall make a cash deposit in the amount set by the governing
body to secure payment of accrued bills or bills due on discontinuance of
service. Receipt thereof shall be issued to each such depositor.
   (b)   Cash deposits for the indicated utility services shall be in the
following amounts:
      (1)   Water service: $65; and
      (2)   Sewer service: $10.
   (c)   The deposit so made shall be kept by the City Clerk in a separate
account and deposited in a fund designated as the “Meter Deposit Fund”.
Interest shall be payable at the rate determined by the state’s Corporation
Commission yearly and credited to the customer’s account January 1 of each
calendar year.
   (d)   Upon the discontinuance of any service at the request of the
depositor, the deposit shall be refunded upon surrender of the original receipt
therefor together with the accrued interest thereon less any amount due and
owing the city for services furnished prior thereto or it may be credited
towards the payment of the final bill rendered to the customer.
   (e)   Any security deposit not refunded within three years after
discontinuance of service shall be deposited, in the utility fund of the city
upon compliance with the provisions of K.S.A. 12-822, as amended.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -)
§ 15-106 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; REFUSAL OF SERVICE; TERMINATION OF SERVICE; LIEN
AGAINST PROPERTY.
   (a)   In the event that any person, except the United States or the state,
shall fail to pay the fees or charges for such utility services(s), utility
service shall be terminated as provided in §§
15-102 to
15-104. The governing body may refuse the delivery of utility service(s), as
permitted by law, until such time as the fees and charges are paid in full.
   (b)   In the event that any person, except the United States or the state,
residing, occupying, using or operating on property to which utility service(s)
furnished by the city is not paid, the unpaid fees or charges shall constitute
a lien upon the property to which the utilities are furnished. The amount of
the unpaid fees or charges shall be certified by the governing body to the
County Clerk of the county in which the property is located, to be placed upon
the tax roll for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in the
same manner as other taxes are collected by law.
   (c)   The lien, described in subsection (b) above, shall not attach to
property for unpaid utility fees or charges when the utility service(s) have
been contracted for by a tenant and not by the landlord or owner of the
property to which the utility service is provided.
   (d)   If at the time of application for utility service the applicant has an
outstanding balance or unpaid fees or charges for utility services provided by
the city, the application shall not be accepted until all fees or charges are
paid in full.
§ 15-107 LANDLORD LIABILITY; LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER; LIEN.
   (a)   Owners of premises served by utility service under this article shall
be liable for payment of the cost of any utility service account delinquency
arising from service provided to such premises, regardless of whether the
utility service was furnished upon the application and request of the owner or
the lessee of the premises. This provision shall also apply when the premises
are leased by or through an agent or other representative of the owner.
   (b)   (1)   Lessors of leased premises served by utility service furnished
by the city shall be ultimately liable for payment of the cost of any utility
service furnished by the city to such leased premises, whether the service is
furnished upon the application and request of the lessor, sublessor or the
lessee of such premises.
      (2)   If utility service is furnished by the city to leased premises,
upon the application and request of the lessee or sublessee, then all billings
for such service furnished shall be made to the lessee or sublessee. However,
if the cost of such service is not paid, as and when they become payable, the
lessor, sublessor and the owner of the premises served shall be liable for the
payment of such cost, plus all interest and penalties as provided by the laws
of the city.
      (3)   If utility service is furnished to leased premises on the
application and request of the lessor or sublessor of the premises, then all
billings for utilities furnished to such leased premises shall be made directly
to the lessor or sublessor, and the lessor or sublessor shall be fully liable
for the cost of service furnished.
      (4)   Such charges shall constitute a lien upon the real estate served,
and shall be certified by the City Clerk to the County Clerk, to be placed on
the tax roll for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in
like manner as other taxes collectible by law.
(Ord. 3935, passed - -; Ord. 3936, passed - -)
§ 15-108 PETTY CASH FUND.
   A Petty Cash Fund in the amount of $1,000 is established for the use of the
City Utilities Department, for the purpose of paying postage, freight,
temporary labor and other emergency expenses, including refund of deposits made
to secure payment of accounts.
§ 15-109 SAME; DEPOSITS.
   The Petty Cash Fund shall be deposited in the regular depository bank of the
city and paid out on the order of the City Clerk by check which shall state
clearly the purpose for which issued.
§ 15-110 SAME; VOUCHERS.
   Whenever the Petty Cash Fund becomes low or depleted, the City Clerk shall
prepare vouchers covering expenses as have been paid from the Petty Cash Fund
and shall submit such vouchers together with the paid checks to the governing
body for review and allowance of the amounts from the regular funds of the
utilities. Warrants issued therefor shall be payable to the Petty Cash Fund and
shall be deposited therein to restore said Petty Cash Fund to its original
amount.
ARTICLE 2: WATER
Section
   
15-201   Water Superintendent
   
15-202   Regulations
   
15-203   Service not guaranteed
   
15-204   Service connections required
   
15-205   Application for service
   
15-206   City to make connections
   
15-207   Connection fees
   
15-208   Curb cocks
   
15-209   Check valves
   
15-210   Unauthorized service
   
15-211   Meters
   
15-212   Same; testing
   
15-213   Tampering with meter
   
15-214   Water leak reimbursement policy
   
15-215   Disconnection, reconnection charge
   
15-216   Utility deposit
   
15-217   Interrupt service
   
15-218   Prohibited acts
   
15-219   Wasting water
   
15-220   Right of access
   
15-221   Rates
   
15-222   Payment of bills
   
15-223   Delinquent accounts; notice; hearing; finding; liability
   
15-224   Use during fire
   
15-225   Cross-connections
§ 15-201 WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The general management, care, control and supervision of the city water
system shall be in the Water Superintendent, who shall be appointed by the
governing body.
§ 15-202 REGULATIONS.
   The furnishing of water to customers by the city through its waterworks
system shall be governed by the regulations set out in this article.
§ 15-203 SERVICE NOT GUARANTEED.
   The city does not guarantee the delivery of water through any of its mains
and connecting services at any time except only when its mains, pumping
machinery and power service connection are in good working order, and the
supply of water is sufficient for the usual demand of its consumers.
§ 15-204 SERVICE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (a)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the city
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located near public water mains, is hereby required at his
or her own expense to make connection to such public water main.
   (b)   Before any connection is made to the city’s water system, an
application must be made in writing to the City Clerk by the owner of the
premises, or his or her authorized representative, for a permit to make such
connection.
§ 15-205 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a connection with the
municipal water system shall apply in writing to the City Clerk, on a form
furnished by the city for that purpose, for a permit to make the connection.
   (b)   The application shall:
      (1)   Contain an exact description including street address of the
property to be served;
      (2)   State the size of tap required;
      (3)   State the size and kind of service pipe to be used;
      (4)   State the full name of the owner of the premises to be served;
      (5)   State the purpose for which the water is to be used;
      (6)   State any other pertinent information required by the City Clerk;
and
      (7)   Be signed by the owner or occupant of the premises to be served, or
his or her authorized agent.
   (c)   Each application for a connection permit shall be accompanied by
payment of fees and/or costs specified in §
15-207 .
(Ord. 2323, passed - -)
§ 15-206 CITY TO MAKE CONNECTIONS.
   All taps shall be given, street excavations made, corporation cocks
inserted, pipes installed from main to curb, and the curb cock installed in a
meter box to which the service pipe is to be connected only by city employees.
§ 15-207 CONNECTION FEES.
   The person applying for water service shall pay the actual cost of the meter
and other materials or the following water service connection fee, whichever is
greater:
   (a)   Three-quarter-inch meter and service line: $1,500, plus tax;
   (b)   One-inch meter and service line: $1,800, plus tax;
   (c)   Two-inch meter and service line: $2,500, plus tax; and
   (d)   For any meter or water service connection not covered by subsections
(a) through (c) above, the consumer shall reimburse the city for the cost of
labor and material expended in the installation of the water service connection
including, but not limited to, the following: one meter; one corporation cock
and tap; one water service line as required by the size of the meter; one 15-
inch diameter meter tile box; one 15-inch diameter cast iron meter box lid; one
curb stop and box or meter shut-off valve, plus tax.
(Ord. 4044, passed - -)
§ 15-208 CURB COCKS.
   (a)   There shall be a curb cock in every service line attached to the city
main, the same to be placed within the meter box.
   (b)   Curb cocks shall be supplied with strong and suitable “T” handles.
§ 15-209 CHECK VALVES.
   Check valves are required on all connections to steam boilers or on any
other connection deemed necessary by the Water Superintendent. Safety and
relief valves shall be placed on all boilers or other steam apparatus connected
with the water system where the steam pressure may be raised in excess of 40
pounds per square inch.
§ 15-210 UNAUTHORIZED SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, other than duly
authorized city officials or employees, to turn water on or off at the water
meter or curb cock shut off, with a key or in any other manner, without first
obtaining written permission from the Mayor or the governing body.
§ 15-211 METERS.
   (a)   All water furnished to customers shall be metered.
   (b)   Meters shall be located between the sidewalk or property line and
curbing when the main is in the street and on private property within three
feet of the alley line when the main is in the alley. In the business district,
the meters may be installed in the basement at a location specified by the
city.
   (c)   The city’s responsibility stops at the property line.
§ 15-212 SAME; TESTING.
   (a)   Meters shall be tested before being set and at any other time
thereafter when they appear to be measuring incorrectly.
   (b)   If a test is requested by the customer and the meter is found to be
accurate within 2%, the meter will be deemed correct and a charge of $10 will
be made to the customer.
§ 15-213 TAMPERING WITH METER.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to break the seal of any meter, to
alter the register or mechanism of any meter, or to make any outlet or
connection in any manner so that water supplied by the city may be used or
wasted without being metered.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person except an authorized employee of
the Water Department to turn any curb cock on or off.
§ 15-214 WATER LEAK REIMBURSEMENT POLICY.
   (a)   In the event of a water leak between the water meter and the point of
usage, upon customer providing proof of repair, the city will credit the
customer’s account for one-half of the difference in the water usage for the
same month in the preceding year and the water usage for the month in question.
   (b)   No credit will be given for excess water usage because of carelessness
or neglect.
(Ord. 4085, passed 4-23-2007)
§ 15-215 DISCONNECTION, RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   (a)   The governing body shall establish, by ordinance, a water service
disconnection and reconnection charge of $10.
   (b)   Whenever the city receives a request from a customer for termination
of water service the disconnection charge shall be added to the customer’s
final bill. Any service disconnected for nonpayment of a delinquent bill shall
be reconnected only upon payment of the delinquent bill, interest penalty
thereon, and a reconnection charge of $50 during business hours and $100 after
business hours.
(Ord. 4141, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 15-216 UTILITY DEPOSIT.
   At the time of making application for water service, the property owner or
customer shall make a cash deposit in the amount and manner specified in §
15-105 to secure payment of accrued bills or bills due on discontinuance of
service.
§ 15-217 INTERRUPT SERVICE.
   The city reserves the right to interrupt water service for the purpose of
making repairs or extensions to water lines or equipment.
§ 15-218 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be a violation of this article for any unauthorized person to:
   (a)   Perform any work upon the pipes or appurtenances of the city’s
waterworks system beyond a private property line unless such person is employed
by the city;
   (b)   Make any connections with any extension of the supply pipes of any
consumer without written permission to do so having been first obtained from
the governing body; and
   (c)   Remove, handle or otherwise molest or disturb any meter, meter lid,
cutoff or any other appurtenances to the water system of the city.
§ 15-219 WASTING WATER.
   (a)   (1)   Water users shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and shall
keep sprinklers, hydrants, faucets and all apparatus, including the service
line leading from the property to the meter, in good condition at their
expense.
      (2)   Wasting water may include but is not limited to:
         (A)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain;
         (B)   Failing to repair an irrigation system’s malfunction; or
         (C)   Failing to repair a controllable water leak due to defective
plumbing.
   (b)   It shall be a violation of this article and unlawful for any owner,
occupant or manager of real property served by the city water utility to waste
water or to permit the willful waste of water to occur.
   (c)   In the event of a violation of this section, the Superintendent of
Water, or such other person as may be designated by the city, shall give
written notice of the violation and opportunity for hearing in accordance with
§ 15-608 .
   (d)   The penalties for violating this section shall be the same as those
set forth in § 15-608 .
§ 15-220 RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   Authorized employees of the city may enter upon any premises at reasonable
hours for the purpose of reading the meter or servicing or inspecting meters or
water lines.
§ 15-221 RATES.
   (a)   The following are hereby established as the rates for the purchase of
water from the city:
      (1)   For water furnished within the corporate limits of the city or
furnished to any rural water district having a contract for the purchase of
water from the city:
         (A)   Zero to 2,000 gallons per month, minimum: $11.75;
         (B)   Next 23,000 gallons per month per 1,000: $7.45; and
         (C)   All over 25,000 gallons per month per 1,000: $6.55.
      (2)   For water furnished to consumers outside the city:
         (A)   Zero to 2,000 gallons per month, minimum: $16.00;
         (B)   Next 23,000 gallons per month per 1,000: $8.00; and
         (C)   All over 25,000 gallons per month per 1,000: $7.40.
   (b)   New employee. In the event the owner or occupant of a property for
which the city provides water certifies to the City Administrator’s
satisfaction the owner’s or occupier’s creation of a new job, and the
employment of a new employee, equivalent to one full-time employee, in addition
to existing jobs and employees, the rate for water use at the meter billed to
the owner or occupant will be reduced 10% during the lifetime of said
additional job not to exceed two years.
   (c)   Five new employees. In the event the owner or occupant of a property,
for which the city provides water, certifies to the City Administrator’s
satisfaction, the owner’s or occupier’s creation of five new jobs and the
employment of five new employees, equivalent to five full-time jobs and
employees, in addition to existing jobs and employees, the rate for water use
at one meter billed to the owner or occupant will be reduced 20% during the
lifetime of said five additional jobs, not to exceed two years.
(Ord. 4076, passed - -; Ord. 4213, passed 7-25-2016; Ord. 4247, passed 1-28-
2019; Ord. 4339, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 15-222 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   All water bills for the previous month’s water service shall be paid on or
before the twentieth day of the month following the service. For any billing
not paid when, due a late charge of 10% will be added to the bill.
(Ord. 3353, passed - -)
§ 15-223 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; NOTICE; HEARING; FINDING; LIABILITY.
   Water service shall be terminated for nonpayment of service fees or charges
as provided in §§
15-102 through
15-104.
(Ord. 3353, passed - -)
§ 15-224 USE DURING FIRE.
   No person owning or occupying premises connected to the municipal water
system shall use or allow to be used during a fire any water from the water
system except for the purpose of extinguishing the fire. Upon the sounding of a
fire alarm, it shall be the duty of every such person to see that all water
services are tightly closed and that no water is used except in extraordinary
cases of emergency during the fire.
§ 15-225 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (a)   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is:
         (A)   To protect the public potable water supply of the city from
pollution or contamination due to cross-connection;
         (B)   To prohibit and eliminate all cross-connections within the
public potable water supply system; and
         (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing effective cross-
connection control program and thus protect the public health.
      (2)   Responsibility. The Water Superintendent shall be responsible for
effectively conducting the cross-connection control program of the city public
potable water supply. If, in the judgment of the Water Superintendent, an
approved backflow prevention device is required the Water Superintendent or his
or her agent will give notice in writing to the customer to install the proper
device. The customer shall immediately install the proper device at the
customer’s expense. Failure to comply shall be grounds for discontinuing water
service to the customer until the device is properly installed.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AGENCY. The department of the municipal government or water purveyor
invested with the responsibility for enforcement of this section.
      AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance at least twice the diameter
of the supply line and no less than one inch, through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
      APPROVED DEVICE. Devices tested and accepted by a recognized testing
laboratory approved by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment and the
Water Superintendent.
      BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other substances into the distribution
system of a potable supply of water from any source other than its intended
source. Back-siphonage is one type of BACKFLOW.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or means to prevent backflow.
      BACK-SIPHONAGE. The flowing back of contaminated or polluted substances
from a plumbing fixture or any vessel or course into the potable water supply
system due to negative pressure in the system.
      CONTAMINANT. Any substance that upon entering the potable water supply
would render it a danger to the health or life of the consumer.
      CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other which contains water or any substance of unknown or questionable quality
whereby there may be flow form one system to the other.
      DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. A device consisting of two internally loaded
soft seated check valves with positive shut-off valves on both upstream and
downstream ends and properly located test ports.
      DUAL CHECK VALVE. A device consisting of two internally loaded soft
seated check valves. This device does not contain test ports and is acceptable
for use only at the meter of residential customers.
      FREE WATER SURFACE. A water surface at atmospheric pressure.
      FLOOD LEVEL RIM. The edge of the receptacle from which water overflows.
      FROST PROOF CLOSET. A hopper with no water in the bowl and with the trap
and water supply control valve located below frost line.
      KDHE. The Kansas Department of Health and Environment.
      PLUMBING. The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances.
      POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely
affect the water.
      REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly of two
independently acting soft seated approved check valves together with a
hydraulically operating mechanically independent differential pressure relief
valve located between the check valves and at the same time below the first
check valve. The unit shall contain properly located test cocks and resilient-
seated shut-off valves at each end of the assembly. To be approved, the
assemblies must be accessible for inspection and testing and be installed in an
above ground location where no part of the assembly will be submerged.
      TESTER. A trained technician certified in the testing and repair of
backflow preventers.
      VACUUM. Any absolute pressure less than that exerted by the atmosphere.
      VACUUM BREAKER. A device that permits entrance of air into the water
supply distribution line to prevent back-siphonage.
      WATER, POTABLE. Water free from impurities in amounts sufficient to cause
disease or harmful physiological effects. Its quality shall conform to Kansas
Department of health and Environment requirements for public water supplies.
      WATER, NON-POTABLE. Water that is not safe for human consumption or that
is of questionable potability.
   (c)   (1)   General. A public potable water supply system shall be designed,
installed and maintained in such a manner as to prevent contamination from non-
potable sources through cross-connections or any piping connection to the
system.
      (2)   Cross-connections prohibited. Cross-connections are prohibited
except when and where as approved by the Water Superintendent suitable backflow
preventers are properly installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
      (3)   Interconnections. Interconnection between two or more public water
supplies shall be permitted only, with the approval of the Kansas Department of
Health and Environment.
(K.S.A. 65-163(a))
      (4)   Individual water supplies. Connections between a private water
supply and the public potable water are prohibited.
(K.S.A. 65-163(a))
      (5)   Connections to boilers. Potable water connections to boiler fee
water systems in which boiler water conditioning chemicals are or can be
introduced shall be made through an air gap or through a reduced pressure zone
principle backflow preventer located in the potable water line before the point
where such chemicals may be introduced.
      (6)   Prohibited connections. Connection to the public potable water
supply system for the following is prohibited unless properly protected by the
appropriate backflow prevention devices.
         (A)   Bidets;
         (B)   Operating, dissecting, embalming and mortuary tables or similar
equipment in such installations the hose used for water supply shall terminate
at least 12 inches away from every point of the table or attachments;
         (C)   Pumps for non-potable substances. Priming only though an air
gap;
         (D)   Building drains, sewers or vent systems;
         (E)   Commercial buildings or industrial plants manufacturing or
otherwise using polluting or contaminating substances;
         (F)   Any fixture of similar hazard;
         (G)   Refrigeration unit condensers and cooling jackets: except when
potable water provided for a refrigeration condenser or cooling jacket is
entirely outside the piping or tank containing a toxic refrigerant, the inlet
connection shall be provided with an approved backflow preventer. That
exchangers used to heat water for potable use shall be of the double wall type;
         (H)   Protective devices required: the type of protective device
required under this article shall be determined by the degree of hazard which
exists as follows.
      (1)   Premises having auxiliary water supply shall protect the public
system by either an approved air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention assembly.
      (2)   Premises having water or substances which would be nonhazardous to
the health and well being of the consumers shall protect the public system with
no less than an approved double check valve assembly.
      (3)   Premises where material dangerous to health is handled in a manner
which creates an actual or potential hazard shall protect the public system by
an approved air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly.
      (4)   Premises where cross-connections are uncontrolled shall protect the
public water supply by installing an approved air gap or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device at the service connection.
      (5)   Premises where because of security requirements or other
prohibitions it is impossible to complete an implant cross-connection
inspection, the public system shall be protected by an approved air gap or an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly.
         (I)   Premises which may fall into one or more of the above mentioned
categories may be, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Beverage bottling plants;
      (2)   Buildings - hotels, apartments, public or private buildings or
other structures having actual or potential cross-connections;
      (3)   Car wash facilities;
      (4)   Chemical manufacturing, handling or processing plants;
      (5)   Chemically contaminated water;
      (6)   Dairies and cold storage facilities;
      (7)   Film or photography processing laboratories;
      (8)   Fire systems;
      (9)   Hospitals, medical centers, morgues, mortuaries, autopsy
facilities, clinics or nursing and convalescent homes;
      (10)   Irrigation systems;
      (11)   Laundries;
      (12)   Metal cleaning, processing or fabricating plants;
      (13)   Oil and gas production, storage or transmission facilities;
      (14)   Packing or food processing plants;
      (15)   Paper and paper products plants;
      (16)   Power plants;
      (17)   Radioactive materials plants or handling facilities;
      (18)   Restricted or classified facilities;
      (19)   Rubber plants;
      (20)   Sand, gravel or asphalt plants;
      (21)   Schools or colleges;
      (22)   Sewage and storm drainage facilities and reclaimed water systems;
      (23)   Solar heating systems;
      (24)   Temporary service - fire hydrants, air valves, blow-offs and other
outlets; and
      (25)   Water front marinas.
   (d)   Approved devices shall be installed at all fixtures and equipment
where backflow or back-siphonage may occur and where a minimum air gap between
the potable water outlet and the fixture or equipment flood-level rim cannot be
maintained. Backflow and back-siphonage devices of all types shall be in an
accessible location. Installation in pits or any other location not properly
drained shall be prohibited, except that dual check valves may be installed in
the meter box.
      (1)   Connections not subject to back pressure. Where a water connection
is not subject to back pressure, a vacuum breaker shall be installed on the
discharge side of the last valve on the line serving the fixture or equipment.
A list of some conditions requiring protective devices of this kind are given
in the following table title
Cross-Connections Where Protective Devises Are Required
and
Critical Level (C-L) Settings for Vacuum Breakers
Fixtures or Equipment Method of Installation
Cross-Connections Where Protective Devises Are Required
and
Critical Level (C-L) Settings for Vacuum Breakers
Fixtures
or         Method of Installation
Equipment
Aspirators
and        C-L at least 6 inches above flood level of receptacle served
ejectors
Commercial
dish       C-L at least 6 inches above flood level of machine. Installed on both hot
washing    and cold water supply lines
machine
Commercial C-L at least 6 inches above flood level of machine. Installed on both hot
laundry    and cold water supply lines
machines
Dental     On models without built in vacuum breakers, C-L at least 6 inches above
units      flood level rim of bowl
Flush      Equipment with approved ball cock, installed according to manufacturer’s
tanks      instructions
Garbage
can        C-L at least 6 inches above flood level of machine. Installed on, both hot
cleaning   and cold water supply lines.
machines
Hose bibs  C-L at least 6 inches above flood level of receptacle served
Hose       C-L at least 6 inches above highest point on hose line
outlets
Lawn       C-L at least 6 inches above highest sprinkler head or discharge outlet
sprinklers above flood level rim
Tanks and  C-L at least 6 inches above flood level rim or line
vats
Through    C-L at least 30 inches above perforated flush pipe
urinals
 
      (2)   Connections subject to back pressure. Where a potable water
connection is made to a line, fixture, tank, vat, pump or other equipment with
a hazard of backflow or back-siphonage where the water connection is subject to
back pressure and an air gap cannot be installed; the Water Superintendent may
require the use of an approved reduced pressure principle backflow preventer. A
partial list of such connections is shown in the following table.
 
Partial List of Cross-Connections Subject to Back Pressure
Chemical lines                 Pumps
Dock water outlets             Steam lines
Individual water supplies      Swimming pools
Industrial process water lines Pressure tanks
Tanks and vats - bottom inlets Hose bibs
 
      (3)   Barometric loop. Water connections where an actual or potential
back-siphonage hazard exists may in lieu of devices specified above be provided
with a barometric loop. Barometric loops shall precede the point of connection.
      (4)   Dual check valve. Dual check valves may be installed at the meter.
These valves shall be inspected and repaired not less frequent than every third
year. These valves shall be installed only in situations where the Water
Superintendent is assured that only non-contaminating substances are subject to
backflow into the potable system.
      (5)   Vacuum breakers. Atmospheric vacuum breakers shall be installed
with the critical level at least six inches above the flood rim of the fixture
they serve and on the discharge side of the last control valve to the fixture.
No shut off valve or faucet shall be installed beyond the atmospheric vacuum
breaker. Pressure vacuum breakers shall be installed with the critical level at
least 12 inches above the flood rim, but may have control valves down stream
from the vacuum breaker. For closed equipment or vessels such as pressure
sterilizers, the top of the vessel shall be installed on the discharge side of
the pressure vacuum breaker.
   (e)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of building and premise owners to
maintain all backflow preventers and vacuum breaks within the building or on
the premises in good working order and to make sure no piping or other
arrangements have been installed for the purpose of bypassing the backflow
devices. Testing and repair of these devices should be made by qualified
technicians. (Qualified technicians are those technicians who have completed a
Kansas Department of Health and Environment approved training curse and have
passed a written examination such as the American Backflow Prevention
Association device testers examination.) The Water Superintendent shall certify
the device testers after ascertaining the technician meets the above
qualifications. The Water Superintendent will also assure the proper
installation of all backflow preventers and wills et appropriate testing and
overhaul schedules for such devices.
      (2)   Testing intervals shall not exceed one year and overhaul intervals
shall not exceed five years.
      (3)   All certified test/repair technicians shall be re-certified at not
less than three year intervals. Persons certified as tester/repair technicians
at the time of the adoption of Ord. 3590 shall continue to be certified for a
period of not more than three years as determined by the Water Superintendent.
   (f)   The Water Superintendent shall notify the owner, or authorized agent
of the owner, of a building or premises, in which there is found a violation of
this article, of such violation. The Water Superintendent shall set a
reasonable time for the owner to have the violation corrected. If the owner
fails to correct the violation within the specified time, the city shall cease
delivery of water to the building or premises until the violation shall be
satisfactorily corrected.
(Ord. 3590, passed - -)
ARTICLE 3: SEWERS
Section
   
15-301   Definitions
   
15-302   Disposal in sewers
   
15-303   Natural outlet
   
15-304   Privy unlawful
   
15-305   Sewer connection required
   
15-306   Same
   
15-307   Permit
   
15-308   Same; inspection
   
15-309   Same; discharge
   
15-310   Direct connection
   
15-311   Maintenance
   
15-312   Same; additional requirements
   
15-313   Connection
   
15-314   Permit; connections
   
15-315   Same
   
15-316   Costs
   
15-317   Sewer for each building
   
15-318   Old building sewers
   
15-319   Sewer; specifications
   
15-320   Same
   
15-321   Same
   
15-322   Same
   
15-323   Same
   
15-324   Sewer excavations; damages
   
15-325   Sewer discharges
   
15-326   Same
   
15-327   Prohibited discharges
   
15-328   Same
   
15-329   Same
   
15-330   Mud, grease traps
   
15-331   Preliminary treatment
   
15-332   Manholes
   
15-333   Measurements; tests; analyses
   
15-334   Special agreements
   
15-335   Damage to sewers
   
15-336   Premises; authority
   
15-337   Rules and regulations
   
15-338   Same
   
15-339   Violations
   
15-340   Same
   
15-341   Same
   
15-342   Sewer service charge
§ 15-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.28 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, arid is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; and MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Water and Sewer Department of the city
or the authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-302 DISPOSAL IN SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-303 NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this article.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-304 PRIVY UNLAWFUL.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-305 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, building or properties used for human employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any
street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby
required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this article, within 90 days after the date
of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet
of the property line.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-306 SAME.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
15-305 , the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-307 PERMIT.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the City Clerk or the Sewer
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement with duplicate
plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the City
Clerk or the Sewer Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $30 shall be
paid to the city at the time the application is filed. A permit and inspection
fee of $50 shall be paid to the city at the time application is filed for
applicants outside corporate city limits.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -; Ord. 4061, passed - -)
§ 15-308 SAME; INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the City Clerk or
the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours
of the receipt of notice by the City Clerk or the Superintendent.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-309 SAME; DISCHARGE.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Department of
Health and Environment. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area
of the lot is less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-310 DIRECT CONNECTION.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
15-409 , a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-311 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-312 SAME; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer of
Greenwood County, Kansas.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-313 CONNECTION.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean back-run gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-314 PERMIT; CONNECTIONS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the City Clerk or the Superintendent.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-315 SAME.
   (a)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (b)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented with duplicated plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the City Clerk or the Superintendent. A
permit and inspection fee of $10 for a residential or commercial building sewer
permit and $20 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the
city at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-316 COSTS.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-317 SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-318 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this article.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-319 SEWER; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, joint, testing
and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the Building and Plumbing
Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of
code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of
Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-320 SAME.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow in the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be left by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-321 SAME.
   No person shall make connection of roof down spouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-322 SAME.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All
such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the City Clerk or
the Superintendent before installation.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-323 SAME.
   (a)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City
Clerk or the Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer.
   (b)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or a designated representative.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-324 SEWER EXCAVATIONS; DAMAGES.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-325 SEWER DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including interior and
exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-326 SAME.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the City Clerk or the Superintendent. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
City Clerk or the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural
outlet.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-327 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquids, solid or gas;
   (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interacted with other wastes,
to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited to
cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to public
sewer;
   (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and/or
   (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails and paper dishes, cups, mild containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-328 SAME.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance, in forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
   (a)   Any liquids or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
   (b)   Any water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
   (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of 3/4 horsepower (0.76
hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent;
   (d)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
   (e)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
   (f)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances. In such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
   (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
   (h)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
   (i)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but limited to sodium chloride or sodium sulfate);
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions);
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen, demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewer treatment
works; and
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined herein.
   (j)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
   (k)   (1)   Any waters or wastes having a five-day BOD greater than 300
parts per million by weight or containing more than 300 parts per million by
weight or suspended solids or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of
the average sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review of the
Superintendent.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (A)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
         (B)   Reduce the suspended solids to 300 parts per million by weight;
or
         (C)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
      (3)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until the approvals are obtained in writing.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-329 SAME.
   (a)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or area proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
15-328 of this article, and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a
public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of § 15-434 of this article.
   (b)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-330 MUD, GREASE TRAPS.
   Grease/oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-331 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   Where preliminary treatment for flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-332 MANHOLES.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property services by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-333 MEASUREMENTS; TESTS; ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all out falls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab samples or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all out falls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-334 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-335 DAMAGE TO SEWERS.
   (a)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the sewage works.
   (b)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-336 PREMISES; AUTHORITY.
   (a)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article.
   (b)   The Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities of waste treatment.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-337 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
15-336 , the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
15-332 .
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-338 SAME.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection observation, measurement, sampling,
repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within the
easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be done
in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to
the private property involved.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-339 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this article, except §
15-335 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-340 SAME.
   (a)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
15-339 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each violation.
   (b)   Each 24-hour period in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-341 SAME.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by
reason of such violation.
(Ord. 3141, passed - -)
§ 15-342 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of sewage in the city
sewer system without having first paid a fee as provided for herein to the City
Clerk and procuring a permit for the Clerk authorizing such disposal.
   (b)   Each contributor shall pay a charge rate for operation and
maintenance, including replacement, of $1.50 per 1,000 gallons of water
metered. The minimum charge per month shall be $22.
   (c)   For sewer service provided to consumers outside of the city limits,
each contributor shall pay a charge rate for operation and maintenance,
including replacement, of $1.65 per 1,000 gallons of water metered. If city
water is furnished, the minimum charge per month shall be $29.70.
   (d)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article or
disposing of sewage contrary to the conditions stated upon the permit provided
for herein shall, upon conviction, be fined an amount not to exceed $100. Each
occurrence shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 4056, passed - -; Ord. 4074, passed - -; Ord. 4248, passed 2-25-2019;
Ord. 4340, passed 5-12-2025)
ARTICLE 4: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
15-401   Definitions
   
15-402   Collection
   
15-403   Contracts
   
15-404   Duty of owner or occupant
   
15-405   Containers
   
15-406   Bulk containers
   
15-407   Enter private premises
   
15-408   Ownership of solid waste
   
15-409   Wrapping garbage
   
15-410   Heavy, bulky waste
   
15-411   Hazardous materials
   
15-412   Prohibited practices
   
15-413   Objectionable waste
   
15-414   Unauthorized disposal
   
15-415   Private collectors; license required
   
15-416   Same; application
   
15-417   Same; fee
   
15-418   Same; number to be displayed
   
15-419   Closed vehicles
   
15-420   Rules and regulations
   
15-421   Violations; penalty
   
15-422   Charges
   
15-423   Billing
   
15-424   Same; delinquent account
§ 15-401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. All refuse emanating from establishments engaged in
business including, but not limited to stores, markets, office buildings,
restaurants, shopping centers, theaters, hospitals, governments and nursing
homes.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any enclosure, building or portion thereof occupied by one or
more persons for and as living quarters.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible waste resulting from the handling, processing, storage,
packaging, preparation, sale, cooking and serving of meat, produce and other
foods and shall include unclean containers.
   MULTI-FAMILY UNIT. Any structure containing more than four individual
dwelling units.
   REFUSE. All garbage and/or rubbish or trash.
   RESIDENTIAL. Any structure containing four or less individual dwelling
units, rooming houses having no more than four persons in addition to the
family of the owner or operator and mobile homes.
   RUBBISH or TRASH. All non-putrescible materials such as paper, tin cans,
bottles, glass, crockery, rags, ashes, lawn and tree trimmings, tree branches,
limbs, tree trunks and stumps, boxes and barrels, wood and excelsior, street
sweepings and mineral refuse. RUBBISH AND TRASH shall not include earth and
waste from industrial processes or manufacturing operations.
   SINGLE DWELLING UNIT. An enclosure, building or portion thereof occupied by
one family as living quarters.
   SOLID WASTE. All non-liquid garbage, rubbish or trash.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-402 COLLECTION.
   All solid waste accumulated within the city shall be collected, conveyed and
disposed of by the city or by contractors specifically authorized to collect
and dispose of solid waste.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-403 CONTRACTS.
   The city shall have the right to enter into a contract with any responsible
person for collection and disposal of solid waste.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-404 DUTY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   (a)   The owner or occupant of every dwelling unit or commercial enterprise
shall provide at his or her own expense a suitable container for the storage of
solid waste as provided in this article.
   (b)   No owner or occupant shall permit to accumulate quantities of refuse
or other waste materials within or close to any structure within the city
unless the same is stored in approved containers and in such a manner as not to
create a health or fire hazard.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-405 CONTAINERS.
   Residential containers shall not have a capacity of more than 35 gallons,
unless otherwise approved by the City Administrator. They shall be of
galvanized iron or other non-rusting material of substantial construction. Each
container shall be non-absorbent, having a tight-fitting lid and shall be leak-
proof and fly-tight. All containers shall have handles of suitable construction
to permit lifting. Plastic bags manufactured for garbage and refuse disposal
may be substituted for residential containers. Plastic bags, when used, shall
be securely closed. All garbage shall be drained of all liquids before being
placed in bags or containers.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-406 BULK CONTAINERS.
   On premises where excessive amounts of refuse accumulates or where cans or
bags are impractical, bulk containers for the storage of refuse may be used.
Containers shall have a capacity and shall be equipped with appurtenances for
attaching mechanical lifting devices which are compatible with the collection
equipment being used. Containers shall be constructed of durable rush and
corrosion-resistant material which is easy to clean. All containers shall be
equipped with tight-fitting lids or doors to prevent entrance of insects or
rodents. Doors and lids shall be constructed and maintained so they can be
easily opened. Containers shall be water-tight, leak-proof and weather-proof
construction.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-407 ENTER PRIVATE PREMISES.
   Solid waste collectors, employed by the city or operating under contract
with the city, are hereby authorized to enter in and upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom as required by this article.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-408 OWNERSHIP OF SOLID WASTE.
   (a)   Ownership of solid waste, when placed in containers by the occupants
or owners of the premises upon which refuse accumulates, shall be vested in the
city and thereafter shall be subject to the exclusive control of the city, its
employees or contractors.
   (b)   No person shall meddle with refuse containers or in any way pilfer or
scatter contents thereof in any alley or street within the city.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-409 WRAPPING GARBAGE.
   All garbage shall be drained of all excess liquid, and wrapped in paper or
other disposable container before being placed in solid waste containers.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-410 HEAVY, BULKY WASTE.
   Heavy accumulations such as brush, tree limbs, broken concrete, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees and other bulky, heavy materials shall be
disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-411 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any hazardous garbage, refuse or waste. Hazardous material shall
include:
   (a)   Explosive materials;
   (b)   Rags or other waste soaked in volatile and flammable materials;
   (c)   Chemicals;
   (d)   Poisons;
   (e)   Radio-active materials;
   (f)   Highly combustible materials;
   (g)   Soiled dressings, clothing, bedding and/or other wastes, contaminated
by infection or contagious disease; and
   (h)   Any other materials which may present a special hazard to collection
or disposal personnel, equipment or to the public.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-412 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (a)   Deposit solid waste in any container other than that owned or leased
by him or her or under his or her control without written consent of the owner
and/or with the intent of avoiding payment of the refuse service charge;
   (b)   Interfere in any manner with employees of the city or its contractors
in the collection of solid waste;
   (c)   Burn solid waste, except in an approved incinerator and unless a
variance has been granted and a written permit obtained from the city or the
appropriate air pollution control agency; and/or
   (d)   Bury refuse, at any place within the city, except that lawn and garden
trimmings may be composted.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-413 OBJECTIONABLE WASTE.
   Manure from cow lots, stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts and other animal
or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or filling stations shall be removed
and disposed of at the expense of the person controlling the same and in a
manner consistent with this article.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-414 UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL.
   No person shall haul or cause to be hauled any garbage, refuse or other
waste material of any kind to any place, site or area within or without the
limits of the city unless such site is a sanitary landfill, transfer point or
disposal facility approved by the State Department of Health and Environment.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-415 PRIVATE COLLECTORS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect or transport any solid
waste within the city, except an employee of the city specifically authorized
for that purpose or an employee of a contractor who has contracted with the
city pursuant to §
15-403 .
   (b)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent a person from hauling or
disposing of lawn and/or tree waste or solid waste which is accepted at the
Greenwood County Landfill, provided it is done in such a manner as not to
endanger the public health or safety or not to become an annoyance to the
inhabitants of the city and not to litter the streets and alleys of the city.
   (c)   LAWN AND/OR FREE WASTE, as utilized herein, is defined as grass, trees
and/or shrubs and their roots, branches, limbs or leaves.
(Ord. 3981, passed - -)
§ 15-416 SAME; APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to collect or transport solid waste within the city
shall make application for a permit to the City Clerk. The application shall
set forth the name and address of the applicant, the make and type of vehicle
to be operated for collecting and transporting solid waste. The application
shall be accompanied by a certificate of inspection and approval of said
vehicle by the Director of Public Works issued not more than 15 days prior to
the date of application.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-417 SAME; FEE.
   No permit shall be issued unless the applicant shall pay to the City Clerk
the sum of $25 per annum for each vehicle used in the collection and
transportation of solid waste. The permit shall be effective only for the
calendar year and shall expire on December 31 of the calendar year in which the
permit is issued.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-418 SAME; NUMBER TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (a)   The City Clerk shall issue a license receipt together with a number,
which shall be affixed to each vehicle.
   (b)   The number shall be placed upon such vehicle in a manner approved by
the Director of Public Works. The number shall be used only on the vehicle for
which it is issued.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-419 CLOSED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Any vehicles used by any person authorized for the collection and
transportation of solid waste shall be maintained in good mechanical condition.
   (b)   The vehicle shall be equipped with ah enclosed body to prevent the
contents leaking or escaping therefrom.
   (c)   Only lawn and/or free waste as defined in §
15-415 and solid waste which is accepted by the Greenwood County Landfill may
be transported in open-bodied vehicles, provided the materials are securely
tied in place and contained so as to prevent scattering along the streets and
alleys.
(Ord. 3981, passed - -)
§ 15-420 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The collection and transportation of trash and waste materials shall be at
all times under the general supervision of the Director of Public Works, who
shall have the authority by and with the consent of the Council to make
additional rules and regulations not inconsistent with the terms and provisions
of this article requiring that the collection and transportation of trash and
waste materials shall be conducted in such manner as not to endanger the public
health, or to become an annoyance to the inhabitants of the city and providing
for a proper fee to be charged to the customer.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-421 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall conduct or operate within the city limits any vehicle
for the purpose of collecting and/or transporting solid waste in violation of
the terms and provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a violation
of this article and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined an amount not
exceeding $100 for each violation.
(Ord. 3981, passed - -)
§ 15-422 CHARGES.
   (a)   The following rates shall be applicable to collection and removal of
solid waste from residential accounts:
      (1)   $16.55 per month per residential account with a 95-gallon poly-cart
being provided by the contractor.
      (2)   $14.58 per month per senior citizen account with a 65-gallon poly-
cart being provided by the contractor.
      (3)   $20.67 per month for lake resident with a 95-gallon poly-cart being
provided by the contractor.
      (4)   $9.14 per month for a second 95-gallon poly-cart being provided by
the contractor.
   (b)   The following rates shall be applicable to the collection and removal
of solid waste from commercial accounts:
      (1)   For a two-cubic-yard dumpster provided by contractor:
         (A)   $55.01 for one weekly pickup;
         (B)   $74.71 for two weekly pickups; and
         (C)   $100.96 for three weekly pickups.
      (2)   For a three-cubic-yard dumpster provided by contractor:
         (A)   $78.65 for one weekly pickup;
         (B)   $97.05 for two weekly pickups; and
         (C)   $120.68 for three weekly pickups.
      (3)   For a four-cubic-yard dumpster provided by contractor:
         (A)   $106.23 for one weekly pickup;
         (B)   $127.22 for two weekly pickups; and
         (C)   $149.55 for three weekly pickups.
      (4)   For a six-cubic-yard dumpster provided by contractor:
         (A)   $159.60 for one weekly pickup;
         (B)   $180.45 for two weekly pickups; and
         (C)   $204.59 for three weekly pickups.
   (c)   The city may establish and collect a service charge not to exceed
$2.50 per customer to defray the cost and maintenance of the collection and
removal of solid waste within the city.
(Ord. 3937, passed - -; Ord. 4235, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 4261, passed 12-9-
2019; Ord. 4327, passed 12-11-2023; Ord. 4347, passed 12-8-2025)
§ 15-423 BILLING.
   Solid waste charges shall be billed monthly and shall be included on water
or utility bills. No payment shall be accepted on utility bills, except for the
full amount billed for all services. Delinquent solid waste bills shall carry
the due dates, grace periods and penalties as water bills.
(Ord. 3753, passed - -)
§ 15-424 SAME; DELINQUENT ACCOUNT.
   In the event the owner or occupant of any property shall fail to pay the
solid waste bills within 60 days following the date upon which it becomes due,
the City Clerk shall annually certify such unpaid bills to the County Clerk as
a lien upon the property. The lien shall be collected subject to the same
regulations and penalties as other property taxes are collected.
(K.S.A. 65-3410) (Ord. 3753, passed - -)
ARTICLE 5: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
15-501   Purpose
   
15-502   Definitions
   
15-503   Declaration of water watch
   
15-504   Declaration of water warning
   
15-505   Declaration of water emergency
   
15-506   Conservation measures
   
15-507   Mandatory conservation measures
   
15-508   Emergency water rates
   
15-509   Regulations
   
15-510   Violations, disconnections and penalties
   
15-511   Emergency termination
§ 15-501 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to provide for a progressive water supply
conservation program, including the declaration of a water supply watch,
warning or emergency and the implementation of voluntary and mandatory water
conservation measures throughout the city in the event such a watch, warning or
emergency is declared by the governing body of the city.
(Ord. 4165, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 15-502 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASSES OF USES OF WATER.
      (1)   Established as follows:
         (A)   Class 1. Water used for outdoor watering; either public or
private, for gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses,
playing fields, swimming pools or other recreational areas; or the washing of
motor vehicles, boats, trailers or the exterior of any building or structure;
         (B)   Class 2. Water used for any commercial, agricultural or
industrial purposes, except water actually necessary to maintain the health and
personal hygiene of bona fide employees of such businesses or interests while
such employees are engaged in the performance of their duties at their place of
employment;
         (C)   Class 3. Domestic usage, other than that which would be included
in either Class 1 or 2; and
         (D)   Class 4. Water necessary only to sustain human life and the
lives of domestic livestock pets and maintain standards of hygiene and
sanitation.
      (2)   In the event that the governing body of the city or the city’s
designated official determines that the city’s water supply may be in subject
to a shortage in supply or the governing body of the city determines there is
need for conservation of city’s water resources for any reason, the city may
begin the progressive three-stage water conservation program by declaring a
water watch as described in §
15-503 or, in times of need and/or duress, the governing body of the city may
choose to declare any section of the program described in §§
15-503 ,
15-504 and
15-505 in effect at any time.
   CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the city’s
water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in
the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   WASTE OF WATER. As used in this article, includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a, street, roadway or other surface
intended for vehicle driving purposes and/or any gutter, ditch or other surface
drain; or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   WATER. Water available to the city for treatment by virtue of the city’s
water rights, water supply, water supply contracts or any treated water
introduced by the city into its water distribution system, including water
offered for sale at any coin-operated site.
(Ord. 4165, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 15-503 DECLARATION OF WATER WATCH.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that conditions indicate that
the probability of a drought or some other condition causing a major water
supply shortage is rising, it shall be empowered to declare, by resolution,
that a water watch exists and that it shall take steps to inform the public and
ask for voluntary reductions in water use. Such a watch shall be deemed to
continue until it is declared by resolution of the governing body to have
ended. The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water watch shall
be effective upon their publication in the official city newspaper.
(Ord. 4165, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 15-504 DECLARATION OF WATER WARNING.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that drought conditions or
some other condition causing a major water supply shortage are present and
supplies are starting to decline, it shall be empowered to declare by
resolution that a water warning exists and that it will recommend restrictions
on nonessential uses during the period of warning. Such a warning shall be
deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the governing body to
have ended. The resolutions declaring the beginning and ending of the water
warning shall be effective upon their publication in the official city
newspaper. Pursuant to the approval of the Chief Engineer, Division of Water
Resources, Kansas Department of Agriculture, the recommended restrictions on
nonessential uses may be extended to private wells within the city limits.
(Ord. 4165, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 15-505 DECLARATION OF WATER EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that an emergency exists by
reason of a shortage of water supply needed for essential uses, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water supply emergency exists and
that it will impose mandatory restrictions on water use during the period of
the emergency. Such an emergency shall be deemed to continue until it is
declared by resolution of the governing body to have ended. The resolutions
declaring the existence and end of a water supply emergency shall be effective
upon their publication in the official city newspaper. Pursuant to the approval
of the Chief Engineer, Division of Water Resources, Kansas Department of
Agriculture, the mandatory restrictions on water use may be extended to private
wells within the city limits.
(Ord. 4165, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 15-506 CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water warning as provided in §
15-504 , the City Administrator is authorized to call on all water consumers to
employ any or all of the following water conservation measures to limit or
eliminate nonessential water uses including, but not limited to the following
uses:
   (a)   Outdoor watering: public or private on lawns, shrubs, trees, gardens
or plants. An odd/even outdoor watering system will be imposed on city
residents. Addresses ending with odd numbers will water on odd numbered
calendar days. Addresses ending with even numbers will water on even numbered
calendar days;
   (b)   Outdoor water use will be restricted to before 10:00 a.m. and after 9:
00 p.m. on any day;
   (c)   Golf courses will restrict watering to tees and greens, but are
permitted to keep their normal schedule;
   (d)   Refilling of private swimming pools will be allowed only one day a
week after sunset;
   (e)   Waste of water will be prohibited. This shall include permitting water
to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface drain, and also failure to
repair a controllable leak of water due to defective plumbing;
   (f)   Outdoor watering will be restricted to the use of a hand-held hose,
bucket or water timer controlled soaker hose only for residential properties;
and
   (g)   Excess water use charges for usage of water over the amount used in
the winter will be considered.
(Ord. 4165, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 15-507 MANDATORY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-505 , the City Administrator is also authorized to implement certain
mandatory water conservation measures, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   (a)   Restriction of new connections to the city’s water distribution
system, except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to
agreements entered into by the city prior to the effective date of the
declaration of the emergency;
   (b)   Waste of water will be prohibited. This shall include permitting water
to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface drain, and also failure to
repair a controllable leak of water due to defective plumbing;
   (c)   Outdoor watering of public or private grounds is prohibited, except
the watering of trees, shrubs and plants maintained by a commercial grower on
their commercial premises. Specifically, a greenhouse or nursery operation;
   (d)   Filling or refilling of residential swimming pools or fountains is
prohibited;
   (e)   Washing of motor homes, boats, trailers or machinery on residential or
public property or the washing of the exterior of any building or structure is
prohibited. Commercial car washing will be allowed in the city;
   (f)   Restrictions on the sale of bulk water;
   (g)   Industrial users of water are required to reduce their consumption to
75% of such user’s average monthly consumption;
   (h)   Commercial business operating a car wash facility may be restricted or
prohibited to remain open; and
   (i)   Emergency water rates will be considered.
(Ord. 4165, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 15-508 EMERGENCY WATER RATES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-505 , the governing body of the city shall have the power to adopt emergency
water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies. Such emergency
rates may provide for, but are not limited to:
   (a)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of use (increasing block
rates);
   (b)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit rate);
or
   (c)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess
demand surcharge).
(Ord. 4165, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 15-509 REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply emergency as provided for in
§
15-505 , the Mayor (or City Administrator or Water Superintendent or other
authorized city official) is empowered to promulgate such regulations as may be
necessary to carry out the provisions of this article, any water supply
emergency resolution or emergency water rate ordinance. Such regulations shall
be subject to the approval of the governing body at its next regular or special
meeting.
(Ord. 4165, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 15-510 VIOLATIONS, DISCONNECTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   (1)   If the Mayor, City Manager, Water Superintendent or other
authorized city official or officials charged with implementation and
enforcement of this article or a water supply emergency resolution learn of any
violation of any water use restrictions imposed pursuant to §§
15-506 ,
15-507 or
15-509 of this article, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed to
the property where the violation occurred and the customer of record and/or any
other person known to the city to be responsible for the violation and/or the
correction of said violation shall be provided with either actual or mailed
notice. Said notice shall describe the violation(s) and order that the noted
violation(s) be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within such specified
time as the city determines is reasonable for such correction, cure or
abatement under the circumstances. In the event the order is not cured within
the time period given in the notice, the city may terminate water service to
the customer subject to the following procedures:
         (A)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation(s) and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the city governing body or
a city official designated as a hearing officer by the city governing body; and
         (B)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, the customer shall be given a full opportunity to be heard by the
city governing body or the city official designated as a hearing officer by the
city governing body before termination is ordered.
      (2)   The city governing body or the city official designated as a
hearing officer by the city governing body shall make findings of fact and
order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (b)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to subsection (a). In the event of subsequent violations,
the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second reconnection and $300 for any
subsequent additional reconnections within a one-year period.
   (c)   Violations of this article shall be a municipal offense and may be
prosecuted in Municipal Court. Any person so charged and found guilty in
Municipal Court of violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of
a municipal offense. Each calendar day in which a violation is observed shall
constitute a separate offense. The penalty for an initial violation shall be a
mandatory fine of $100. In addition, such customer may be required by the Court
to serve a definite term of confinement in the city or county jail which shall
be fixed by the Court and which shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a
second or subsequent conviction shall be a mandatory fine of $200. In addition,
such customer shall serve a definite term of confinement in the city or county
jail which shall be fixed by the Court and which shall not exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 4165, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 15-511 EMERGENCY TERMINATION.
   Nothing in this article shall limit the ability of any properly authorized
city official from terminating the supply of water to any or all customers upon
the determination of such city official that emergency termination of water
service is required to protect the health and safety of the public or for any
other emergency as required or authorized by ordinance or as deemed necessity
of the city by such city official or the governing body of the city.
(Ord. 4165, passed 7-22-2013)
CHAPTER XVI: ZONING AND PLANNING
   Article
      
1.   CITY PLANNING COMMISSION/BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
      
2.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
3.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
4.   FLOOD PLAIN ZONING
ARTICLE 1: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION/BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
Section
   
16-101   Commission re-establishment
   
16-102   Membership, terms, interest and compensation
   
16-103   Meetings, officers and records
   
16-104   Powers and duties
   
16-105   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
16-106   Budget
§ 16-101 COMMISSION RE-ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby re-established the City Planning Commission, which is
composed of seven members of which five members shall be residents of the city
and two members shall reside outside the city, but within the designated
planning area of the city that is within at least three miles of the corporate
limits of the city. The Planning Commission was originally created by Ord.
_______, which was passed and approved on __________________ _____, _________.
§ 16-102 MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, INTEREST AND COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the consent of the governing body at the first regular meeting of the governing
body in May of each year and take office at the next regular meeting of the
Commission. All members shall be appointed for staggered terms of three years
each. The appointments shall be so made that the terms of office of the members
residing outside of the corporate limits of the city do not expire within the
same year. By the re-establishment of the Commission, all current members
continue to serve their present terms of office. In case of death, incapacity,
resignation or disqualification of any member, appointment to such a vacancy on
the Commission shall be made of the unexpired term of the member leaving the
membership. Should any member have a conflict of interest, either directly or
indirectly, in any matter coming before the Commission, he or she shall be
disqualified to discuss or vote on the matter. The governing body may adopt
rules and regulations providing for removal of members of the Commission.
Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for expenses actually incurred in the performance of their duties as
deemed desirable by the governing body.
§ 16-103 MEETINGS, OFFICERS AND RECORDS.
   The members of the Planning Commission shall meet at such time and place as
may be fixed in the Commission’s bylaws. The Commission shall elect one member
as Chairperson and one member as Vice-Chairperson who shall serve one year and
until their successors have been elected. A Secretary shall also be elected who
may or may not be a member of the Commission. Special meetings may be called at
any time by the Chairperson or in the Chairperson’s absence by the Vice-
Chairperson. The Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of business
and hearing procedures. All actions by the Commission shall be taken by a
majority vote of the entire membership of the Commission; except that, a
majority of the members present and voting at the hearing shall be required to
recommend approval or denial of an amendment to the zoning regulations, a
rezoning amendment or a special use permit. A proper record of all the
proceedings of the Commission shall be kept. The Commission, from time to time,
may establish subcommittees, advisory committees or technical committees to
advise or assist in the activities of the Commission.
§ 16-104 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The governing body and Planning Commission shall have all the rights, powers
and duties as authorized in K.S.A. 12-741 et seq., and amendments thereto,
which are hereby incorporated by reference as part of this section and shall be
given full force and effect as if the same had been fully set forth. The
Commission is hereby authorized to make or cause to be made, adopted and
maintained a Comprehensive Plan for the city and any unincorporated territory
lying outside of the city but within the county in which the city is located,
which in the opinion of the Commission forms the total community of which the
city is a part. The Commission shall also cause to be prepared, adopted and
maintained zoning and subdivision regulations on all land within the
jurisdiction designated by the governing body. The Comprehensive Plan and
zoning and subdivision regulations are subject to final approval of the
governing body by ordinance. Periodically, the governing body may request the
Commission to undertake other assignments related to planning and land use
regulations.
§ 16-105 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Planning Commission is hereby designated to also serve as the city’s
Board of Zoning Appeals with all the powers and duties as provided for in
K.S.A. 12-759. The Board shall adopt rules in the form of bylaws for its
operation which shall include hearing procedures. Such bylaws shall be subject
to the approval of the governing body. Public records shall be kept of all
official actions of the Board which shall be maintained separately from those
of the Commission. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
evidence presented, findings of fact, decisions and the vote upon each question
or appeal. A majority of the members of the Board present and voting at the
hearing shall be required to decide any appeal. Subject to subsequent approval
of the governing body, the Board shall establish a scale of reasonable fees to
be paid in advance by the appealing party. The present membership of the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall be disbanded effective ________________ _____, 200____.
§ 16-106 BUDGET.
   The governing body shall approve a budget for the Planning Commission and
make such allowances to the Commission as it deems proper, including funds for
the employment of such employees or consultants as the governing body may
authorize and provide, and shall add the same to the general budget. Prior to
the time that moneys are available under the budget, the governing body may
appropriate moneys for such purposes from the General Fund. The governing body
may enter into such contracts as it deems necessary and may receive and expend
funds and moneys from the state or federal government or from any other
resource for such purposes.
ARTICLE 2: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-201   Zoning regulations incorporated
§ 16-201 ZONING REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   There are hereby incorporated by reference as if set out fully herein, the
zoning regulations adopted by the governing body of the city, as prepared by
the city and consisting of Ord. 2068, 2171, 2313, 2358, 2474, 2633, 3248, 3557
and 3909 and entitled, “Zoning Regulations of the City of Eureka, Kansas”. No
fewer than three copies of the zoning regulations, marked “Official Copy as
Incorporated by the Code of the City of Eureka” and to which there shall be a
published copy of this section attached, shall be filed with the City Clerk to
be open for inspection and available to the public at all reasonable business
hours.
(Ord. 2068, passed - -; Ord. 2171, passed - -; Ord. 2313, passed - -; Ord.
2358, passed - -; Ord. 2474, passed - -; Ord. 2633, passed - -; Ord. 3248,
passed - -; Ord. 3559, passed - -; Ord. 3909, passed - -)
ARTICLE 3: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-301   Regulations incorporated
§ 16-301 REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   There are hereby incorporated by reference, as if set out fully herein,
certain regulations governing the subdivision of land located within the city
and certain surrounding area as described therein, as adopted by the governing
body of the city. No fewer than three copies of the subdivision regulations
marked “Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of Eureka”, and
to which there shall be a published copy of this section attached, shall be
filed with the City Clerk to be open for inspection and available to the public
at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 3908, passed - -; Ord. 4055, passed - -; Ord. 4103, passed 2-25-2008)
ARTICLE 4: FLOOD PLAIN ZONING
Section
   
16-401   Statement of purpose
   
16-402   Definitions
   
16-403   Appointment
   
16-404   Enforcement
   
16-405   Flood insurance rate map
   
16-406   Permits required
   
16-407   Applications
   
16-408   Same; standards
   16-407   Same; subdivisions
   16-408   New water and sewer, etc.
   
16-409   Alteration or relocation of watercourse
   
16-410   Variance procedures
   
16-411   Nonconforming use
   
16-412   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
16-413   Interpretation
   
16-414   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
16-415   Severability
   
16-416   Appeal
§ 16-401 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize flood losses by applying the provisions of this
article to:
   (a)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (b)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
   (c)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard; and
   (d)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-402 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the flood plain management regulations adopted by a community.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (A)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (B)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). All unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this article.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis arid is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For flood plain
management purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME does
not include park trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For flood plain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a flood plain management regulation
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land within a community, subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. This land is identified as Zone A
on the official map.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
being 16 USC §§ 3501 et seq., includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designated as a historic
structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain
management regulation.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s flood plain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in these regulations is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-403 APPOINTMENT.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be appointed to these additional
responsibilities by resolution of the governing body and his or her appointment
shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service. During temporary
absence or disability of the Code Enforcement Officer, the governing body of
the city shall designate an acting enforcement official.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-404 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Code Enforcement Officer hereby has these added responsibilities and is
authorized and directed to enforce all of the provisions of this article and
all other ordinances of the city now in force or hereafter adopted, related to
zoning, subdivision or building codes.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-405 FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP.
   The governing body of the city hereby designates the current Flood Hazard
Boundary Map/Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), for the city and amendments, as
the official map to be used in determining those areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-406 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge or improve any building or
structure or make other developments, as defined in the definitions section of
this article, in the city, or cause the same to be done without first obtaining
a separate development permit for each building of structure.
   (a)   Within Zone(s) A on the official map, separate flood plain development
permits are required for all new construction, substantial improvements and
other developments, including the placement of manufactured homes.
   (b)   To obtain a flood plain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application therefore in writing on a form furnished for that purpose.
Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the work to be. covered by the flood plain
development permit for which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by lot,
block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
      (6)   Within designated flood plain areas, be accompanied by elevations
(in relation to a mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) or
in the case of flood proofed nonresidential structures, the elevation to which
it shall be flood proofed. Documentation or certification of such elevations
will be maintained by the Code Enforcement Officer; and
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Code Enforcement Officer (i.e., require a statement from the applicant that
they are aware that elevating or flood proofing structures above the minimum
levels will result in premium reduction, especially in the case of
nonresidential flood proofing when a minus one foot penalty is assessed at the
time of rating the structure for the policy premium).
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-407 APPLICATIONS.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall review all development permit
applications to determine if the site of the proposed development is reasonably
safe from flooding and that all necessary permits have been received as
required by federal or state law.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-408 SAME; STANDARDS.
   The Code Enforcement Officer, in reviewing all applications for new
construction, substantial improvements, prefabricated buildings, placement of
manufactured homes and other developments (as defined in §
16-413 of this article) will:
   (a)   Obtain, review and reasonably utilize, if available, any regulatory
flood elevation data and flood way data available from federal/state or other
sources, until such other data is provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a Flood Insurance Study and require within areas designated
as Zone A on the official map that the following performance standards be met.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction.
         (A)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above one foot above the level of the
base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, to be flood proofed so that below such a level the structure is
water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this subsection are satisfied.
         (B)   Such certification shall be provided to the local enforcement
official.
      (3)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements.
Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (A)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (B)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (C)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters.
   (b)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to flood
damage;
   (c)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage;
   (d)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (e)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding;
   (f)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with state laws, local building codes and FEMA guidelines. In the
event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following
specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (g)   Assure that all manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to art existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; and
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above one foot above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
in accordance with the provisions of subsection (f) above.
   (h)   Assure that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within Zones A1-
30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
subsection (g) be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of subsection (f).
   (I)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within the
identified flood plain on the community’s FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive day;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this article: a recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices and has
no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-407 SAME; SUBDIVISIONS.
   The governing body of the city shall review all subdivision applications and
other proposed new developments, including manufactured home parks or
subdivisions and shall make findings of fact and assure that:
   (a)   All such proposed developments are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (b)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions), greater than five
acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals regulatory
flood elevation data in areas designated Zone A;
   (c)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
   (d)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-408 NEW WATER AND SEWER, ETC.
   New and replacement water and sewer systems shall be constructed to
eliminate or minimize infiltration by, or discharge into flood waters.
Moreover, on-site waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid impairment
or contamination during flooding.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-409 ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF WATERCOURSE.
   The governing body of the city will ensure that the flood carrying capacity
within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained. The
city will notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Office prior to any alteration or relocation of watercourse, and
submit copies of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Moreover, the city will work with appropriate state and federal agencies in
every way possible in complying with the National Flood insurance Program in
accordance with the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-410 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (a)   The City Planning Commission/Board of Zoning Appeals as established by
the city shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the
requirements of this article.
   (b)   The City Planning Commission/Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and
decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in any requirement,
decision or determination made by the Code Enforcement Officer in the
enforcement or administration of this article.
   (c)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Planning Commission/
Board of Zoning Appeals or any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the
district court of the county as provided by statute.
   (d)   In passing upon such applications, the City Planning Commission/Board
of Zoning Appeals shall consider all technical evaluation, ail relevant
factors, standards specified in other sections of this article, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront locations, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for that area;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for that area;
      (9)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water system and streets and
bridges.
   (e)   (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing subsections (e)(2) through (e)(6) below
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
      (3)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated flood way if
any increase in flood level during the base flood discharge would result.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (A)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (B)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (C)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (6)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given a
written notice that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the
increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-411 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (a)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this article, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this article may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this article. The Utility
Department shall notify the Code Enforcement Officer in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof which are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (b)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this article. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or State inventory of Historic Places.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-412 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this article to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this article
imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this article shall prevail. All
other ordinances inconsistent with this article are hereby repealed to the
extent to the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-413 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this article
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal, of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-414 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This article does not imply that areas outside
flood plain district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts
will be free from flooding or flood damage. This article shall not create
liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that may result from reliance on this article or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-415 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this article is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this article shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
§ 16-416 APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the Code
Enforcement Officer, the applicant may apply for such permit or variance
directly to the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CHARTER ORDINANCES
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: CHARTER ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79-1952, authorizing and limiting tax levies
1    - -    in any one year on each dollar of assessed tangible valuation and
            prescribing an aggregate for all city-wide tax levies (Repealed by Charter
            Ord. 4)
     12-30- Exempting the city from § 38 of Ch. 274 of the 1968 Session Laws of Kansas,
2    1968   which section amended K.S.A. 14-1204, relating to the election of the Mayor
            and Commissioners, their terms of office and presiding officer
3    3-11-  Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 14-1308, relating to
     1969   meetings of the board of commissioners of a city of the second class
4    8-9-   Repealing Charter Ord. 1
     1976
     4-23-  Exempting the city from the provisions of the 1978 Supplements to K.S.A. 75-
5    1979   1117, 75-1120, 75-1121 and 75-1122, so as to not require said city to
            maintain fixed asset records and accountings
6    - -    Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 25-2108a, relating to the
            holding of primary elections within said city (Repealed by Charter Ord. 9)
            Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 79-1952, regarding the mill
7    - -    levy limitation for library purposes and airport purposes (Repealed by
            Charter Ord. 15)
8    9-22-  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79-5011, authorizing the levying of taxes to
     1980   create a special fund for the purpose of paying utility service costs
9    5-29-  Repealing Charter Ord. 6
     1990
10   8-27-  Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 12-4112, relating to the
     1990   assessment of costs in the Municipal Court
            Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 14-103, relating to the
            division of the city into wards and election and terms of Council members;
11   9-10-  K.S.A. 14-201, relating to elective and appointed officers, their terms and
     1996   compensation; and K.S.A. 14-204, relating to the election of and residency
            required for Council members and vacancies in offices of Mayor or Council
            members
12   5-25-  Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 14-205, relating to the
     1997   qualifications of officers of the city; amending § 1-302 of the city code
13   5-10-  Amending Charter Ord. 11, relating to appointed officers and their terms of
     1999   office
14   5-24-  Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 14-205, relating to the
     1999   residency requirements of the City Attorney
15   7-24-  Repealing Charter Ord. 7
     2000
     5-28-  Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1692, 12-1697 and 12-
16   2002   1698, relating to the levy of a transient guest tax for tourism and
            conventions
17   9-9-   Amending Charter Ord. 16
     2002
18   2-14-  Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1758, 12-1760 and 12-
     2005   1767, relating to public building commissions
19   6-12-  Amending Charter Ord. 10
     2006
     10-22- Exempting the city from, and making inapplicable, the provisions of K.S.A.
20   2007   12-4113, 12-4202, 12-4203, 12-3204 and 12-4207, relating to the code of
            procedure for municipal courts
     6-9-   Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 14-440, relating to a
21   2014   second class city’s authority to enter into a contract exceeding the
            Engineer’s estimate
22   1-11-  Repealing Ord. 19; exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 12-4112,
     2016   relating to the assessment of costs in the Municipal Court
     11-28- Repealing Charter Ord. 11; exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A.
23   2016   14-103, 14-201 and 14-204, relating to the election of officers, terms of
            office, transitions to November elections and nomination petitions
25   2-10-  Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 25-2120, and establishing
     2020   dates for taking public office for the governing body
26   5-24-  Amending Charter Ord. 16, regarding the transient guest tax
     2021
27   1-24-  Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 14-205 relating to
     2022   residency requirements of the Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief
     7-25-  Exempting the city from the provisions of K.S.A. 12-4112; providing
28   2022   substitute and additional provisions of the same subject relating to the
            assessment of costs in the Municipal Court; and repealing Charter Ord. 22
           
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3252     8-26-1985   Granting a natural gas franchise to Greeley Gas Company
3632     10-12-1992  Granting an electric franchise to Western Resources, Inc.
4007     3-8-2004    Granting a cable service franchise to Mediacom Southeast,
                     L.L.C.
4033     6-13-2005   Granting a telecommunications local exchange service to
                     Southwestern Bell Telephone, L.P.
4034     6-13-2005   Granting a gas distribution franchise to Atmost Energy
                     Corporation
4105     4-14-2008   Granting a telecommunications local exchange service
                     provider franchise to Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
4198     7-13-2015   Granting a telecommunications franchise to Kansas Fiber
                     Network, a Kansas limited liability company (KSFIBERNET)
4328     1-22-2024   Granting a contract telecommunications franchise to
                     IdeaTek Telcom, LLC
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kansas Statutes Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KANSAS STATUTES ANNOTATED
K.S.A. Section Code Section
K.S.A. Section                Code Section
Ch. 2, Art. 13                8-407
2-1314                        8-407
8-126 to 8-149                8-2A05;
                              8-303
8-126(hh) and (ii)            14-602
8-126(jj)                     14-601
8-401                         14-304
                              8-311;
8-1102                        14-302;
                              14-309
8-1102(b)                     14-307
8-1570                        14-302
8-1599                        3-104
8-2118                        9-113;
                              14-102
9-1402                        1-703
9-2107                        1-703
10-803                        1-310
Ch. 12, Art. 41               9-108
12-103                        1-202
12-120 to 12-121              1-113
12-741 et seq.                16-104
12-759                        16-105
12-822                        15-105
                              4-611;
                              8-210;
12-1,115                      8-2A13;
                              8-313;
                              8-404
12-1222                       12-401
12-1224                       12-404
12-1225                       12-404;
                              12-408
12-1226                       12-404
12-1227                       12-408
12-1608                       1-310
12-1617                       5-104;
                              5-207
                              8-205;
12-1617e                      8-2A09;
                              8-307
12-1617f                      8-404
12-1675                       1-703
12-1675a                      1-703
12-1675a(g)                   1-703
12-1677a                      1-703
12-1677b                      1-703
12-1740 et seq.               3-104
12-1750                       4-601
12-1750 to 12-1756            4-614
12-1750 et seq.               8-907;
                              8-908
12-1751                       4-601
12-1752                       4-605
12-1755                       4-611
12-1756                       4-611;
                              8-909
12-1801                       13-102
12-1802                       13-102
12-1803                       13-102
12-1804                       13-102
12-1805                       13-102
12-1806                       13-102
12-1807                       13-102
12-1808                       13-102
12-1925                       12-501
12-1926                       12-501
12-1928                       12-501
12-3002                       1-108
12-3007                       1-110
12-3008                       1-110
                              4-202;
12-3009 through 12-3012       4-302;
                              4-402
12-3014                       1-106
12-3015                       1-106
12-4101 et seq.               9-102;
                              9-105
12-4107                       9-105
12-4108                       9-108
12-4112                       9-112
12-4411                       9-112
14-111                        1-202
14-204                        1-206
17-12a401                     1-703
17-1914                       4-502
17-1915                       4-502
17-1916                       4-508
17-1917                       4-508
17-1918                       4-508
21-5701(f)                    11-206
21-5701(j)                    11-205
21-5706                       11-205
21-5709                       11-206
22-2512                       10-203
25-2101 et seq.               6-101
25-2111                       6-101
25-2120                       6-101
Ch. 27                        3-104
32-1047                       10-203
32-1149                       12-306
Ch. 40, Art. 17               7-503
40-2404                       8-911
40-3101 et seq.               14-601
40-3901 et seq.               4-611;
                              8-901
41-308d                       3-305
41-310                        3-302
41-710                        3-306
41-712                        3-304
41-713                        3-305
41-719                        3-104;
                              Ch. 3, Art. 7
41-2601 et seq.               3-216
                              3-403;
41-2614                       3-503;
                              3-603
41-2701                       3-201
41-2704                       3-304
41-2708                       3-208
47-230                        2-106
50-6,121 et seq.              4-211
50-6,122                      4-211
50-6,129(a)(1) through (a)(8) 4-211
54-104                        1-501
54-106                        1-501;
                              6-101
60-1111                       13-102
60-2101                       8-2A13
65-163(a)                     15-225
65-3410                       15-424
65-4015(d)(16) and (h)        11-205
65-4101                       11-205
65-4105                       11-205
65-4107(g)                    11-205
65-4109(g)                    11-205
75-4301a-et-seq.              1-315
75-4308                       1-501
78-111                        1-504
79-3321                       9-113
32-1120                       12-306
                              
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Code Section
Charter Ordinances
Charter Ord. 1  - -         TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 2  12-30-1968  TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 3  3-11-1969   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 4  8-9-1976    TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 5  4-23-1979   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 6  - -         TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 7  - -         TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 8  9-22-1980   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 9  5-29-1990   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 10 8-27-1990   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 11 9-10-1996   1-301;
                            TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 12 5-25-1997   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 13 5-10-1999   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 14 5-24-1999   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 15 7-24-2000   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 16 5-28-2002   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 17 9-9-2002    TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 18 2-14-2005   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 19 6-12-2006   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 20 10-22-2007  9-112;
                            TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 21 6-9-2014    TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 22 1-11-2016   9-112;
                            TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 23 11-28-2016  6-104;
                            TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 25 2-10-2020   6-103;
                            TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 26 5-24-2021   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 27 1-24-2022   TSO Table I
Charter Ord. 28 7-25-2022   TSO Table I
Ordinances
-               7-25-2016   4-213
2068            - -         16-201
2171            - -         16-201
2313            - -         16-201
2323            - -         15-205
2358            - -         16-201
2359            - -         4-101
                            12-601—
2395            - -         12-603;
                            12-605;
                            12-606
2418            - -         4-231
2421            - -         7-211
2422            - -         12-214
2474            - -         16-201
2543            - -         9-106
2557            - -         7-316—
                            7-321
2572            - -         13-311
2590            - -         7-401—
                            7-403
2607            - -         14-205
2633            - -         16-201
2838            - -         14-209;
                            14-210
2843            - -         14-211
2860            - -         12-604
2908            - -         7-214;
                            7-216
2939            - -         5-110—
                            5-113
2962            - -         14-205
2967            - -         12-112
3030            - -         4-801—
                            4-823
3041            - -         3-403
3088            - -         14-212
3103            - -         15-105
3141            - -         15-301—
                            15-341
3208            - -         14-213
3229            - -         14-208
3241            - -         14-208
3242            - -         14-205
3248            - -         16-201
3252            8-26-1985   TSO Table II
                            2-103—
                            2-108;
                            2-201;
3258            - -         2-202;
                            2-204;
                            2-214—
                            2-217
3297            - -         11-202;
                            11-203
                            15-103;
3353            - -         15-222;
                            15-223
3431            - -         8-701—
                            8-715
3551            - -         4-602—
                            4-614
                            14-501—
3559            - -         14-504;
                            16-201
3590            - -         15-225
3632            10-12-1992  TSO Table II
3723            - -         8-801;
                            8-802
                            15-401—
                            15-414;
                            15-416—
3753            - -         15-418;
                            15-420;
                            15-423;
                            15-424
3805            - -         16-401—
                            16-416
3871            - -         3-102
3872            - -         2-202
3873            - -         12-310—
                            12-312
                            12-302—
3906            - -         12-305;
                            12-309
3908            - -         16-301
3909            - -         16-201
3910            - -         2-203
3914            - -         14-214
3920            - -         7-215
3922            - -         1-301
3935            - -         15-107
3936            - -         15-107
3937            - -         15-422
3949            10-23-2000  8-901—
                            8-911
3956            - -         3-104
3967            - -         11-204
3973            - -         5-301—
                            5-304
                            4-204;
                            4-206;
                            4-207;
3976            - -         4-209—
                            4-215;
                            4-219;
                            4-222;
                            4-227
                            15-415;
3981            - -         15-419;
                            15-421
3985            - -         12-307
3986            - -         12-306;
                            12-308
3994            - -         12-208
3996            - -         1-118
4000            - -         1-316
4007            3-8-2004    TSO Table II
4018            - -         8-601—
                            8-608
4019            - -         8-301—
                            8-313
4020            - -         8-201—
                            8-210
4027            - -         8-401—
                            8-407
4033            6-13-2005   TSO Table II
4034            6-13-2005   TSO Table II
4038            - -         2-102
4039            - -         3-213;
                            3-304
4042            - -         4-224
4043            - -         4-505
4044            - -         15-207
4045            - -         3-502
4047            - -         4-417
4048            - -         2-109
4049            - -         2-209
4050            - -         7-305
4053            - -         4-213
4054            - -         12-208
4055            - -         16-301
4056            - -         15-342
4061            - -         15-307
4062            - -         7-112
4064            - -         2-102
4068            5-29-2007   2-220;
                            2-221
4072            - -         12-301;
                            12-309
4073            - -         2-213
4074            - -         15-342
4076            - -         15-221
4082            1-8-2007    2-102
4085            4-23-2007   15-214
4095            1-28-2008   9-113
4096            1-28-2008   9-114
4103            2-25-2008   16-301
4105            4-14-2008   TSO Table II
4106            4-28-2008   14-217
4120            2-9-2009    2-203
4141            4-25-2011   2-204
4142            5-9-2011    15-215
4146            10-11-2011  3-801—
                            3-804
4150            3-12-2012   12-222
4151            4-9-2012    12-208
4152            - -         2-201
4161            2-25-2013   12-308
4162            3-25-2013   14-205
4164            7-22-2013   13-306
4165            7-22-2013   15-501—
                            15-511
4167            10-14-2013  14-601—
                            14-604
4168            11-12-2013  2-401—
                            4-403
4170            11-25-2013  12-203
4172            12-9-2013   12-208
4173            12-9-2013   13-203
4174            12-9-2013   5-206;
                            5-207
4178            1-13-2014   12-604
4185            7-14-2014   14-205
4187            9-8-2014    14-215
4188            9-22-2014   14-216
4198            7-13-2015   TSO Table II
4202            9-14-2015   2-102
4205            1-25-2016   14-601
4213            7-25-2016   15-221
4217            8-22-2016   4-213
4226            6-26-2017   11-206
4227            6-26-2017   11-205
4228            8-14-2017   14-101—
                            14-103
4229            8-28-2017   11-101
4230            9-12-2017   2-213
4232            10-10-2017  12-309
4235            12-11-2017  15-422
4236            12-27-2017  1-209
4239            9-10-2018   12-113
4240            9-24-2018   13-216
4241            9-24-2018   2-202
4247            1-28-2019   15-221
4248            2-25-2019   15-342
4250            3-11-2019   3-201— 
                            3-218
4251            4-22-2019   3-304
4252            4-22-2019   7-204
4254            8-12-2019   11-101
4261            12-9-2019   15-422
4266            6-8-2020    7-303 ;  
                            7-304
4268            9-14-2020   12-208;
                            12-209
4273            12-14-2020  12-308
4286            7-12-2021   3-304
4295            5-9-2022    7-305
4302            8-22-2022   14-601—
                            14-604
4315            4-24-2023   9-103
4321            9-11-2023   7-112
4322            9-11-2023   5-206;
                            5-207
4323            9-11-2023   12-604
4324            9-11-2023   12-208;
                            12-209
4325            9-11-2023   1-612;
                            1-613
                            8-302;
4326            11-13-2023  8-303.1—
                            8-303.5
4327            12-11-2023  15-422
4328            1-22-2024   TSO Table II
4336            2-10-2025   13-306
4339            5-12-2025   15-221
4340            5-12-2025   15-342
4341            8-25-2025   1-612;
                            1-613
4342            8-25-2025   14-101—
                            14-103
4343            8-25-2025   11-101
4347            12-8-2025   15-422
                           
 
 
