CITY OF FORT SCOTT, KANSAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 3798, passed 4-7-2026
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.001   Code adoption
   
10.002   Definitions
   
10.003   Title of office
   
10.004   Interpretation of language
   
10.005   Grammatical interpretation
   
10.006   Acts by agents
   
10.007   Prohibited acts include causing and permitting
   
10.008   Computation of time
   
10.009   Construction
   
10.010   Repeal not to revive any ordinance
   
10.011   Severability
 
   
10.999   General penalty
§ 10.001 CODE ADOPTION.
   (A)   The city adopts a codification of the general ordinances of the City
of Fort Scott, Kansas, entitled “The Fort Scott Municipal Code, Revised and
Republished in 2025”.
   (B)   Such codification was authorized and approved by the ordinance
codified in this chapter and it was made in conformity with K.S.A. 12-3014 and
12-3015, and amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1.01.010) (Ord. 3156, passed - -1998)
§ 10.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CITY and TOWN. The City of Fort Scott, Kansas.
   COMMISSION.
      (1)   The City Commission of the City of Fort Scott, Kansas.
      (2)   ALL ITS MEMBERS or ALL COMMISSIONERS means the total number of
commissioners holding office.
   COUNTY. The County of Bourbon, Kansas.
   LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
State of Kansas, the ordinances of the City of Fort Scott and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated
thereunder.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUST and SHALL. The act referred to are each mandatory.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law,
an affirmation may be substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words
SWEAR and SWORN are equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or a part
of such building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debt.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kansas.
   STREET. Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs or other public ways in the city which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so
designated in any law of the state.
   TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, include any person
who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
   WRITTEN. Includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multigraphed or
otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.010) (Ord. 2680, passed - -; Ord. 2698, passed - -1978)
§ 10.003 TITLE OF OFFICE.
   Use of the title of any officer, employee, department, board or commission
means that officer, employees, department, board or commission of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.020) (Ord. 2680, passed - -; Ord. 2698, passed - -1978)
§ 10.004 INTERPRETATION OF LANGUAGE.
   All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and
approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others
as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be
construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.030) (Ord. 2680, passed - -; Ord. 2698, passed - -1978)
§ 10.005 GRAMMATICAL INTERPRETATION.
   The following grammatical rules shall apply in the ordinances of the city,
unless it is apparent from the context that a different construction is
intended.
   (A)   Gender. Each gender includes the masculine, feminine and neuter
genders.
   (B)   Singular and plural. The singular number includes the plural and the
plural includes the singular.
   (C)   Tenses. Words used in the present tense include the past and the
future tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.040) (Ord. 2680, passed - -; Ord. 2698, passed - -1978)
§ 10.006 ACTS BY AGENTS.
   When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being such that it may be
done as well by an agent as by the principal, such requirements shall be
construed to include all such acts performed by an authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.050) (Ord. 2680, passed - -; Ord. 2698, passed - -1978)
§ 10.007 PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING AND PERMITTING.
   Whenever in the ordinances of the city any act or omission is made unlawful,
it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or
concealing the fact of such act or omission.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.060) (Ord. 2680, passed - -; Ord. 2698, passed - -1978)
§ 10.008 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to
be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last
day, unless the last day is Sunday or a holiday, in which case it shall be
excluded.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.070) (Ord. 2680, passed - -; Ord. 2698, passed - -1978)
§ 10.009 CONSTRUCTION.
   The provisions of the ordinances of the city and all proceedings under them
are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote justice.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.080) (Ord. 2680, passed - -; Ord. 2698, passed - -1978)
§ 10.010 REPEAL NOT TO REVIVE ANY ORDINANCE.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the repealing clause of an
ordinance or revive any ordinance which has been repealed thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.090) (Ord. 2680, passed - -; Ord. 2698, passed - -1978)
§ 10.011 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
§ 10.999 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with
any of the mandatory requirements of any ordinance of the city is guilty of a
misdemeanor, except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed by any
ordinance of the city. Any person convicted of a misdemeanor under the
ordinances of the city shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $2,500 or by
imprisonment not to exceed one year or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Each such person is guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of the
ordinances of the city is committed, continued or permitted by such person, and
he or she is punishable accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1.16.010) (Ord. 2690, passed - -1978)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.001   Election precincts
   
11.002   Right of entry for inspection
§ 11.001 ELECTION PRECINCTS.
   The city is divided into ten election precincts, as follows.
   (A)   All of the first ward, as now known and bounded, shall be one election
precinct and shall constitute the “First Ward Election Precinct”.
   (B)   All that part of the second ward, as now known and bounded, lying east
of the center of the alley between Crawford and Judson Streets shall constitute
the “East Election Precinct of the Second Ward”, and all that part of the ward,
as now known and bounded, lying west of the center of said alley shall
constitute the “West Election Precinct of the Second Ward”.
   (C)   All that part of the third ward, as now known and bounded lying east
of a line drawn north and south through the center of Broadway from the south
line of the ward to the center of Elm Street, thence east down the center of
Elm Street to a point due south of the center of Coates Street, thence north
along the center of Coates Street to the north boundary of the city shall
constitute the “East Election Precinct of the Third Ward”.
   (D)   All that part of the fourth ward, as now known and bounded, beginning
at the intersection of the center of Sixth Street with the St. Louis and San
Francisco Railroad right-of-way, thence south and east along the center of the
railroad right-of-way to a point due east of the center of Fifteenth Street,
thence west along the center of Fifteenth Street to the center of National
Avenue, thence north along the center of National Avenue to the center of
Twelfth Street, thence west along the center of Twelfth Street to a point due
south of the center of the alley located in Block 18 of Newkirk and Jaynes
Addition, thence due north to the center of Sixth Street, thence east to point
of beginning shall constitute the “East Election Precinct of the Fourth Ward”.
   (E)   All that part of the fourth ward, as now known and bounded, beginning
at a point in the middle of Sixth Street due north of the center of the alley
in Block 193, thence west along the center of Sixth Street to the west city
limits, thence south, west and east along the city limits to a point due west
of the center of Eleventh Street, thence east down the center of Eleventh
Street to the center of Horton Street, thence north down the center of Horton
Street to the center of Morris Street, thence east along the center of Morris
Street to the center of Crawford Street, thence north along the center of
Crawford Street to a point due west of the center of Tenth Street, thence east
along the center of Tenth Street to a point due south of the center of the
alley lying in Block 8, Newkirk and Jaynes Addition, thence north to a point of
beginning shall constitute the “West Election Precinct of the Fourth Ward”.
   (F)   All that part of the fourth ward, as now known and bounded, lying
south and west of a line beginning at a point where the center of the St. Louis
and San Francisco Railroad right-of-way intersects the south limits of the
city, thence north along the center of said railroad right-of-way to a point
due east of the center of Fifteenth Street, thence west along the center of
Fifteenth Street to the center of National Avenue, thence north along the
center of National Avenue to the center of Twelfth Street, thence west along
the center of Twelfth Street to a point due south of the center of the alley in
Block 18, Newkirk and Jaynes Addition, thence north to the center of Tenth
Street, thence west along the center of Tenth Street to the center of Crawford
Street, thence south along the center of Crawford Street to the center of
Morris Street, thence west along the center of Morris Street to the center of
Horton Street, thence south along the center of Horton Street to a point due
east of the center of Eleventh Street, thence west along the center of Eleventh
Street to the west city limits shall constitute the “South Election Precinct of
the Fourth Ward”.
   (G)   All that part of the fifth ward, as now known and bounded, lying north
of a line drawn east and west along the center of Sixth Street to its
intersection with the center line of Andrick Street, thence south along the
center of Andrick Street to the center of Charles Street, thence east to the
city limits shall constitute the “North Election Precinct of the Fifth Ward”,
and all of the remainder of said ward, as now known and bounded, shall
constitute the “South Election Precinct of the Fifth Ward”.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.010) (Ord. 2264, passed - -1960)
§ 11.002 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   Conditions for entry. Whenever any officer or employee of the city is
authorized to enter any building or premises for the purpose of making an
inspection to enforce any ordinance, he or she may enter such building or
premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same; provided that, he or she
shall effect entry in the manner provided in division (B) below, except in
emergency situations, or when consent of the person having charge or control of
such building or premises has been otherwise obtained.
(Prior Code, § 1.12.010)
   (B)   Procedures for occupied and unoccupied premises. If the building or
premises to be inspected is occupied, the authorized officer or employee shall
first present proper credentials and demand entry; and, if such building or
premises is unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the building or
premises and demand entry. If consent to such entry is not given, the
authorized officer or employee shall have recourse to every remedy provided by
law to secure entry.
(Prior Code, § 1.12.020)
   (C)   Controlling ordinance; failure to consent to entry.
      (1)   This section shall be controlling over any other ordinance or part
of an ordinance on the same subject, whether heretofore or hereafter adopted,
unless such ordinance or part of an ordinance provides differently by an
express reference to this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other ordinance of the city, whether heretofore
or hereafter adopted, it shall not be a violation of ordinance to refuse or
fail to consent to an entry for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 1.12.030)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY MANAGER AND CITY COMMISSION
      
31.   CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   REVENUE, FINANCE AND FUNDS
      
34.   EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE
      
35.   CHARTER ORDINANCES
CHAPTER 30: CITY MANAGER AND CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Vacancy in office; how filled
City Manager
   
30.015   Bond required; amount; conditions
City Commission
   
30.030   Membership
   
30.031   Governing body; transition to November elections
   
30.032   Number of members; elections
   
30.033   Terms of office; candidate filing
   
30.034   Non-partisan elections
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 30.001 VACANCY IN OFFICE; HOW FILLED.
   (A)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor or Commissioner, the
remaining members of the Board of Commissioners shall, within ten days or the
next regularly scheduled Commission meeting, after the occurrence of a vacancy,
elect some suitable person, by majority vote, who shall reside inside the
territorial limits of the city and shall be a qualified elector therein to fill
the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term of such office. During the
calendar year 2023, there will be allowed a one-time exception to the ten-day
rule and will allow vacancy to be filled by a ballot at the next general
election being held in the county at which time the person to fill the
unexpired term will be placed on the ballot and elected by the people. If the
remaining members cannot agree upon a suitable person, then they shall call
upon the City Attorney who shall cast the decisive vote for such appointment.
   (B)   If the Mayor or a City Commissioner shall move outside the territorial
limits of the city, such move shall ipso facto be deemed to create a vacancy in
such person’s office.
(Prior Code, § 2.60.010) (Ord. 3290, passed - -2005; Ord. 3746, passed 5-16-
2023)
**** CITY MANAGER ****
§ 30.015 BOND REQUIRED; AMOUNT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The City Manager shall, before entering upon the duties of his or her
office, give a good and sufficient surety bond, to be executed by a bonding
company authorized to do business in the state, payable to and for the use and
benefit of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.010)
   (B)   The City Manager’s bond shall be for the sum of $5,000 and shall be
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the City Manager’s duties, that he
will save the city harmless from all loss caused by his or her neglect of duty
or misfeasance in office, or for the willful expenditure of any moneys of the
city, in violation of law. The bond, before being accepted, shall be approved
by the Judge of the County District Court. The cost of the surety bond shall be
borne by the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.020)
(Ord. 2568, passed - -1975)
**** CITY COMMISSION ****
§ 30.030 MEMBERSHIP.
   The City Commission shall be composed of five members elected from the city
at large. Each Commissioner shall reside in the territorial limits of the city
and shall be a qualified elector under the Constitution of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.010) (Ord. 3289, passed - -2005)
§ 30.031 GOVERNING BODY; TRANSITION TO NOVEMBER ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Those governing body positions with terms that would have expired in
April 2017 shall expire on the second Monday in January 2018, when the officers
elected in the November 2017 general election take office.
   (B)   Those governing body positions with terms that would have expired in
April 2019 shall expire on the second Monday in January 2020, when the officers
elected in the November 2019 general election take office.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.020) (Ord. 3469, passed 1-5-2016)
§ 30.032 NUMBER OF MEMBERS; ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body shall consist of five officers to be elected to the
terms set forth herein. The officers shall reside within the city limits.
   (B)   General elections shall take place on the Tuesday succeeding the first
Monday in November 2017 and succeeding elections will be held every two years
for all officers’ positions whose terms expire on the second Monday in January
of the following year.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.030) (Ord. 3469, passed 1-5-2016)
§ 30.033 TERMS OF OFFICE; CANDIDATE FILING.
   (A)   The candidates receiving the largest and second largest number of
votes respectively in the November 2017 general election shall be elected for
four-year terms and the candidate receiving the third largest number of votes
respectively shall be elected for a two-year term. At succeeding regular city
elections, there shall be elected two Commissioners for four-year terms and one
Commissioner for a two-year term. The candidates receiving the largest and
second largest number of votes respectively shall be elected for the four-year
terms and the candidate receiving the third largest number of votes shall be
elected for the two-year term.
   (B)   Any resident of the city desiring to be a candidate for the position
of Commissioner shall file with the county’s Election Officer, before the
filing deadline established in K.S.A. 25-205 and amendments thereto, a
declaration of candidacy on a form furnished by the county’s Election Officer
as specified by the state’s Secretary of State. The nomination petition must be
signed by no less than 25 of the qualified electors of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.040) (Ord. 3469, passed 1-5-2016)
§ 30.034 NON-PARTISAN ELECTIONS.
   All elections for the city shall be non-partisan.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.050) (Ord. 3474, passed 4-19-2016)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Salaries of elective officers; withholding authorized
   
31.002   Officers’ and employee’s insurance
   
31.003   Social Security
   
31.004   Personnel rules and regulations
   
31.005   Drug and alcohol policy
Code of Ethics
   
31.020   Purpose
   
31.021   Commissioners’ conduct with one another
   
31.022   Commissioners’ conduct with the public
   
31.023   Commissioners’ conduct with other board and commissions
   
31.024   Commissioners’ conduct with City Manager, subordinate staff members
   
31.025   City staff member conduct with the Commission
   
31.026   Violation; enforcement
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 31.001 SALARIES OF ELECTIVE OFFICERS; WITHHOLDING AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Elective officers. The elective officers of the city shall receive,
each month, as compensation for their services, the amounts set out in this
section, said compensation to be paid on a monthly basis:
 
Mayor        $1
Commissioner $1
Commissioner $1
Commissioner $1
Commissioner $1
 
(Prior Code, § 2.24.010)
   (B)   Withholding authorized. The Board of Commissioners of the city is
authorized to withhold from the salaries of its officers and employees such
sums as such officers or employees may authorize.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.020)
(Ord. 2336, passed - -1965; Ord. 2561, passed - -1975; Ord. 2685, passed - -
1978)
§ 31.002 OFFICERS’ AND EMPLOYEE’S INSURANCE.
   The Board of Commissioners of the city may provide group health, accident,
medical, hospitalization or life insurance, or any combination of two or more
of some forms of group insurance authorized to be issued in the state, for the
benefit of all or any portion of its officers and employees, and may pay up to,
but not to exceed, 30% of the cost of such group insurance out of its
appropriate funds from which salaries and compensation of its officers and
employees are paid.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.010) (Ord. 2335, passed - -1965)
§ 31.003 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Plan; provisions. The city hereby extends the benefits of Title 11 of
the Federal Social Security Act in conformity with the applicable provisions of
such act, to the employees of the city, according to the provisions of House
Bill 500, Session Laws of Kansas, 1951, in accordance with and under the terms
of the following plan: “Plan of the City of Fort Scott, Kansas for Extending
the Benefits of Title 11 of the Federal Social Security Act to the Employees of
Said Subdivision”.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.010)
   (B)   Approval; compliance with requirements. The City Manager and the City
Clerk are authorized and directed to prepare, execute and attest the Social
Security plan for and in behalf of the city and to submit such plan to the
state agency for approval and, upon approval of the plan by the state agency,
the officers and employees of the city shall comply with and perform all of the
requirements of the plan.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.020)
(Ord. 2115, passed - -1951)
§ 31.004 PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The updated employee handbook for the city is adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 3783, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 31.005 DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY.
   The city adopts the following document, three copies of which are on file in
the office of the City Clerk marked and designated as “Drug and Alcohol Policy
of the City of Fort Scott, 1996”, and published by the city. Said document is
adopted as a condition of employment with the city. All terms and provisions of
said document are made a part of this section as if fully repeated at length
herein.
(Prior Code, § 2.52.010) (Ord. 3132, passed - -1996)
**** CODE OF ETHICS ****
§ 31.020 PURPOSE.
   Excellence in performance by City Commission members, employees and
appointed board and commission members of the city is the best way to achieve
our common goal of ensuring a high quality of life in the city. To be most
effective, the efforts of all must be integrated. One special obligation of the
City Commissioners is to set an example by promoting cooperation through strong
leadership. The public expects the best communication, planning and decision-
making possible from its representatives and employees. City Commissioners must
strive for high standards of behavior and performance to the benefit of all
city residents. Adherence to the following set of principles will ensure
effective guidance and operation of the City Commission and will accentuate a
positive, open and productive environment for all.
(Ord. 3780, passed 1-21-2025)
§ 31.021 COMMISSIONER’S CONDUCT WITH ONE ANOTHER.
   (A)   General role of Commissioners. All members of the Commission have
equal status and a single vote. No one Commissioner has more power than any
other and all should be treated with equal respect.
   (B)   General responsibilities of Commissioners. Each Commissioner is
accountable to the City Commission as a whole and, ultimately, to the citizens,
for his or her actions. Each Commissioner will strive to keep an open and
receptive mind toward the views and opinions of others. Should concerns about
another Commissioner arise, the concern will be shared privately with the other
individual on a one-to-one basis before raising a public issue, unless
otherwise allowed or directed by law. Ideas on how the City Commission can work
more effectively should be presented to the Commission as a whole.
   (C)   Specific responsibilities of Commissioners. At minimum, all
Commissioners should:
      (1)   Demonstrate honesty and integrity in every action and statement;
      (2)   Review Commission and city procedure manuals including, but not
limited to, this Code of Ethics, the Code of Procedure and applicable state
laws regarding elected officials, should occur at least annually;
      (3)   Represent the city at ceremonial functions and engagements;
      (4)   Respect the proper roles of elected officials and city staff
members to ensure open and effective government; and
      (5)   Provide contact information to the City Manager for use in case of
an emergency and keep the administration generally aware of any extended
absence from the city.
   (D)   Specific responsibilities of Commissioners during meetings.
      (1)   Use formal titles. Commissioners should refer to one another
formally during Board meetings as Mayor, Commissioner or Commissioner [last
name];
      (2)   Practice civility and decorum in discussions and debate.
Disagreement is expected, but all should work in a cordial manner (disagree
without being unnecessarily disagreeable);
      (3)   Be respectful of diverse opinions, as difficult questions, tough
challenges to a particular point of view and criticism of ideas and/or
information are legitimate elements of a free democracy in action;
      (4)   Honor the role of the Chair (the Mayor, President of the Commission
or designee) in maintaining order and decorum;
      (5)   Respect the Chair’s efforts to focus discussion on current agenda
items and maintain order. Objections to the Chair’s actions should be voiced
politely and with reason, following the city’s Code of Procedure;
      (6)   Prepare in advance of Commission meetings so as to be familiar with
issues on the agenda; submit questions on agenda items a reasonable amount of
time ahead of the meeting to enable better responses by city staff members and/
or allow withdrawal of matters that need additional work before passage;
      (7)   Stay focused on the agenda and items at hand, act efficiently
during public meetings;
      (8)   Do not politicize procedural issues (e.g., approval of minutes,
consent agenda items and the like) for strategic purposes; and
      (9)   Be courteous and respectful to staff. The meeting, as a public
forum, should not be used to embarrass or demean staff or to attack their
professionalism or qualifications.
   (E)   Meeting agendas.
      (1)   City Commission meeting agendas will be open and publicized.
Because the agenda is used to advise the public, staff and Commission of the
items that will be discussed and acted upon at the meeting, the agenda must go
out on time, usually the Wednesday before a regular meeting. Surprises at
meetings from the City Commissioners or staff can be unwelcome and
counterproductive. Information upon which decisions are to be made must be
communicated to all City Commissioners equally and prior to decision-making
meetings to enable free discussion and timely consideration of matters. To
facilitate these goals the City Clerk will set, from time to time, a deadline
necessary to ensure that the distribution of the complete agenda is made on
time.
      (2)   Items received after the deadline may not be included on the agenda
until the next regular meeting. Emergency matters may be proposed for inclusion
after the deadline at the discretion of the Chair.
   (F)   Procedures of Commission meetings. Commissioners will be familiar with
and follow the city’s Code of Procedure in the conduct of meetings.
(Ord. 3780, passed 1-21-2025)
§ 31.022 COMMISSIONERS’ CONDUCT WITH THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   Effective communication requires a high level of trust. The City
Commission believes in open communication and the public’s right to know. In
addition, the provisions of the state’s Open Meetings Act (KOMA) apply. Open
channels of communication must be maintained among all members of the
Commission. It is understood that information permitted by statute to be
discussed in closed, executive recess must remain confidential. Sharing of such
information with unauthorized persons at any time is unacceptable.
   (B)   If a public statement by the Commission on any city matter is
appropriate or necessary, the Commission, as a whole, will agree upon a
specific statement to be made by an official designee. While City Commission
members, city staff members and appointed board members may have their personal
opinions, those personal opinions remain as such and shall not be expressed as
City policy. Opinions and views expressed by City Commissioners to the public
outside of public meetings, whether oral or through various forms of physical
or electronic media shall be expressed as personal opinion only and not city
policy, unless prior consent is given by a majority of the City Commission.
(Ord. 3780, passed 1-21-2025)
§ 31.023 COMMISSIONERS’ CONDUCT WITH OTHER BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   Attendance in official versus personal capacity. The city establishes,
from time to time, other boards and commissions as a means of gathering
community input. Citizens who serve on boards and commissions become more
involved in government and serve as advisors to the city. They are a valuable
resource to the city’s leadership and should be treated with appreciation and
respect. City Commissioners serve as liaisons to boards and commissions
according to appointments made and, in this role, are expected to represent the
full City Commission in providing guidance to the board or commission. In other
instances, Commissioners may attend board or commission meetings as
individuals.
      (1)   Commissioners attending these meetings as official liaisons should:
         (a)   Attend all regularly scheduled meetings of the respective Board
or Commission or arrange for an alternate;
         (b)   Maintain an active liaison relationship; and
         (c)   If participating in a voting capacity as an official appointee
or board liaison, Commissioners should freely offer opinion on matters relative
to the board or the subjects at hand, while also adhering to the principles of
decorum and conduct and respecting the opinion of the other board members.
      (2)   City Commissioners attending such meetings in their individual
capacity should adhere to the following protocols:
         (a)   Any public comments by a City Commissioner in his, her or their
personal capacity should be clearly identified as a personal view and not as
the city’s official position or as a binding action of the City Commission as a
whole;
         (b)   Limit contact with the board or commission members to only
questions for clarification of the board’s, commission’s or City Commission’s
position;
         (c)   Avoid conduct, which shall be deemed inappropriate with a board
or commission member, including, but not limited to, lobbying on behalf of an
individual, business or developer, or advocating a particular policy
perspective; and
         (d)   Be mindful that boards and commissions are advisory to, but not
binding upon, the City Commission that they serve; the City Commission is
ultimately responsible for setting city policy. Boards and commissions should
be free from undue influence of City Commissioners or staff.
   (B)   Pursuit of concerns regarding board or commission members. City
Commissioners should pursue concerns regarding an individual board or
commission member with discretion. If the City Commissioner is comfortable
talking with that individual privately, the Commissioner should do so. If the
issue cannot be resolved in such a manner, the City Commissioner should consult
with the City Manager and/or city staff liaison and to the board or commission,
so the matter can be placed on an agenda for discussion.
   (C)   Procedures to be followed by board and commission members; penalties
for failure to comply. Members of boards and commissions must follow policies
and procedures established by or under the authority of the City Commission.
However, City Commissioners do not have the power or right to threaten board
and/or commission members in any way if they disagree about an issue. A board
or commission appointment should not be used as a political “reward”.
   (D)   Respect for diverse opinions. A primary role of the city’s boards and
commissions is to represent many points of view in the community, and to
provide the City Commission with advice based on a full spectrum of
perspectives. City Commissioners may have a closer working relationship with
some individuals serving on boards and commissions than others, but must be
fair to and respectful of all citizens serving on boards and commissions.
   (E)   Separation of political support from public forums. Board and
commission members may offer political support to a board or commission member
or City Commissioner, but not while conducting official duties in a public
forum. Similarly, City Commissioners may support board and commission members
who are running for office, but not in their official capacity as a
Commissioner.
(Ord. 3780, passed 1-21-2025)
§ 31.024 COMMISSIONERS’ CONDUCT WITH THE CITY MANAGER, SUBORDINATE STAFF
MEMBERS.
   (A)   General principles of cooperation and respect. Elected officials set
policy. City staff members analyze problems and issues, make recommendations
and implement and/or administer the Commission’s policies. Governance of a city
relies on the cooperative efforts of both elected officials and city staff
members. Every effort should be made to cooperate with and show mutual respect
for the contributions made by individual city staff members for the good of the
community.
   (B)   General rule against Board interference with city staff and employees.
      (1)   The city operates under the Commission-Manager form of government
set out in K.S.A. 12-1039. The City Commission sets the policy of the city and
serves as the governing body. The statutes vest the administration and affairs
of the city in the City Manager along with the power to appoint and remove all
heads of departments and all subordinate officers and employees of the city.
(See K.S.A. 12-1040.)
      (2)   As a result, no member of the City Commission shall directly
interfere with the conduct of any department or the duties of employees
subordinate to the City Manager, except at the express direction of the full
City Commission or with the approval of the City Manager. Commissioners will
issue no directive to nor communicate with any city staff person without
permission from the City Manager, to whom the City staff reports. This
prohibition excludes the City Attorney with whom all Commissioners are able to
communicate with given the unique advisory role of the City Attorney.
   (C)   Communication with city staff members regarding concerns. Every City
Commissioner can, and has the responsibility to, communicate to the City
Manager and/or city staff matters that he or she believes deserves the
attention and application of the city’s financial and/or human resources. This
responsibility does not entitle any City Commissioner to monopolize the city’s
resources, usurp the judgment of the City Manager, or interfere with a city
staff member carrying out his or her duties.
   (D)   Specific principles of cooperation and respect.
      (1)   Treat all city staff members professionally.
      (2)   Channel communications through appropriate senior city staff
members, as follows.
         (a)   Questions for city staff members should be directed to the City
Manager.
         (b)   Commissioners should not set up meetings with staff members
directly, but should work through the City Manager.
         (c)   When in doubt about what staff contact is appropriate,
Commissioners should ask the City Manager for direction. However, nothing in
these protocols is intended to hinder the access required by Commission-
appointed liaisons to fulfill their unique responsibilities.
         (d)   The City Attorney’s position is unique, however, in that the
Commissioners and staff are encouraged to communicate with the City Attorney on
various matters in an advisory capacity. The prohibitions on direct
communication with staff do not apply to the City Attorney. The Commissioners
may independently contact by electronic communication the city’s bond counsel;
the City Attorney; City Finance Director; City Clerk; and City Engineer so long
as the City Manager is carbon copied on all those communications.
      (3)   Never publicly criticize individual city employees or officers.
However, it must be noted that criticism differs from questioning the facts or
opinions of city staff members.
      (4)   Direct critical comments about city staff member performance to the
City Manager by private correspondence or conversation.
      (5)   Avoid involvement in administrative functions. Avoid any staff
interactions that may be construed as trying to shape staff recommendations.
Commissioners shall further refrain from coercing staff into making
recommendations to the Commission as a whole.
      (6)   Be cautious about communicating the city’s official position on
policy issues. Before sending correspondence related to a legislative or policy
position, check with the City Manager to verify that it is accurate, and that a
position has not already been determined.
      (7)   Do not attend staff meetings or job sites unless requested by staff
or with Commission or City Manager approval. Even if the Commissioner does not
say anything, their presence may imply support, show partiality, intimidate
city staff members or hamper the staff member’s ability to do his or her job
objectively.
      (8)   Do not solicit political support from city staff members.
      (9)   Depend upon city staff members to respond to citizen concerns and
complaints. It is the role of City Commissioners to pass on their constituents’
concerns and complaints. It is not appropriate to pressure city staff members
to solve a problem in a particular way. Refer citizen complaints to the City
Manager, who will, in turn, be responsible for assigning city staff and then
informing the City Commission of the complaint’s resolution.
      (10)   Respect a “one-hour” rule for staff work. Requests for staff
support should be made to the City Manager. Any request that would require more
than one hour of city staff member time should be carefully considered so that
staff resources are allocated in accordance with overall City Commission
priorities and within the available budget. Once notified that a request for
information or staff support would require more than one hour, the Commissioner
or Manager may request that the matter be placed on an upcoming Commission
meeting agenda.
(Ord. 3780, passed 1-21-2025)
§ 31.025 CITY STAFF MEMBER CONDUCT WITH THE COMMISSION.
   Specific principles of cooperation and respect:
   (A)   Demonstrate professionalism and non-partisanship in all interactions
with the community and in public meetings;
   (B)   Demonstrate respect for Commissioners at all times;
   (C)   Treat all Commissioners equally;
   (D)   Respect the role of City Commissioners as policymakers for the city.
City staff members are expected to provide the best professional
recommendations to the Commission on issues before it. City staff members
should use their independent and professional judgment in crafting policy
recommendations. The Commissioners must be able to depend upon city staff
members to make independent recommendations and, if necessary, to provide
information about requested alternatives to staff recommendations. City staff
members should also provide information on the advantages and disadvantages of
each staff recommendation and alternative;
   (E)   If a City Commissioner directs a city staff member to “take care of a
matter” for them or provide information to them that has not received approval
of the City Manager, that staff member is to contact the City Manager
immediately. The City Manager will then consult the full Commission for
appropriate action; and
   (F)   Upon the receipt of a staff support request in accordance with the
“one hour” rule, city staff members must follow through in the fullest and most
efficient manner possible.
(Ord. 3780, passed 1-21-2025)
§ 31.026 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Manager, as the administrative head of the city in the
Commission-Manager form of government is responsible for enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter as it regards all non-elected and/or appointed
administrative and professional employees or agents of the city. The City
Manager may delegate authority to investigate and enforce the provisions of
this chapter while retaining ultimate authority. Such delegation may be to the
Director of Human Resources or City Attorney generally, or to department heads
or directors as it regards personnel under their supervision. Violation of the
provisions of this chapter by persons other than an elected official may result
in disciplinary action under the personnel policies and procedures in place
from time to time up to and including termination of employment and/or
forfeiture of position. Contractors or agents violating the procurement
provisions in place from time to time may be suspended from future purchasing
agreements with the city for a period not to exceed three years.
   (B)   The Commission, as the elected governing body, governs itself under
these rules and may take any disciplinary action allowed by law up to and
including censure for any violation of the provision of this subchapter it
finds credible.
(Ord. 3780, passed 1-21-2025)
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.001   Commission on Human Relations
   
32.002   Planning Commission
   
32.003   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
32.004   Old Fort Governing Board
   
32.005   Parks Board
   
32.006   Downtown Development Board
   
32.007   Business Improvement District and Advisory Board
   
32.008   LaRoche Baseball Complex Advisory Board
   
32.009   Convention and Visitors Bureau
   
32.010   Bourbon County Food Alliance
   
32.011   Street Advisory Board
   
32.012   Land Bank Board of Trustees
 
   
32.999   Penalty
§ 32.001 COMMISSION ON HUMAN RELATIONS.
   (A)   Created. There shall be and there is created and constituted an
advisory commission of the city, to be known by the name and style of “Fort
Scott Commission on Human Relations”.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.010)
   (B)   Purposes. The Commission on Human Relations shall act in an advisory
capacity, and its purposes shall be as follows:
      (1)   To further amicable relations among the various groups of the
population of the city;
      (2)   To help preserve and further the good name of the city for fair
play and promote even better relations among its people;
      (3)   To open the way for each citizen, regardless of race, creed, color
or national origin, to develop according to his or her abilities without
limitations; and
      (4)   To aid the city and its people in benefitting from the fullest
realization of its human resources.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.020)
   (C)   Members; appointment; terms; vacancy filling; compensation. The
members of the commission on human relations shall be appointed by the City
Manager with the approval of the Board of Commissioners, and shall consist of
nine members who shall be drawn from diverse segments of the public and
selected for their wisdom, ability and broad perspective. Three members shall
be appointed for one-year terms, three members for two-year terms and three
members for three-year terms. All subsequent terms upon expiration of the
original appointments shall be for a three-year term and until their successors
have been appointed and qualified for office. Any vacancy in the membership of
the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of a member, as in the case
of an original appointment, for the unexpired term of a member whose office
shall be vacant. All members shall serve without compensation, but the
Commission may be allowed necessary expenses, as may be authorized.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.030)
   (D)   Officers; appointment and election. Officers of the Commission on
human relations shall be a Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson and a Secretary. The
City Manager shall appoint the first Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. The
Secretary shall be elected at the first meeting of the Commission. The
officers, after the first year, shall be elected at the annual election of
officers.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.040)
   (E)   Officers’ duties generally; committees. The Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission shall have and perform the duties
commonly associated with their respective titles and as may be determined by
the Commission. The Commission shall be further authorized to appoint and fix
the membership of such number of standing and temporary committees as it may
find expedient for the performance of its duties.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.050)
   (F)   Meetings. The Commission on Human Relations shall meet at least once
each month at such time and place as shall be fixed by the Commission by its
standing rules. Special meetings shall be called by the Chairperson or, in his
or her absence, by the Vice-Chairperson, or by the written request of a
majority of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.060)
   (G)   Methods and procedures. The Commission in the attainment of its
objectives shall observe the following methods and procedures:
      (1)   Advise the City Manager and other officers of the city on problems
affecting human and intergroup relations;
      (2)   Make studies, surveys and investigations to provide data as needed
in its work;
      (3)   Recommend such measures as it deems necessary to carry out its
objectives;
      (4)   Consult with and obtain cooperation and coordinated effort on the
part of all agencies which function in the field of human relations in the
city;
      (5)   Utilize the resources of individuals and groups toward the
improvement of intergroup relations;
      (6)   Enlist all potential community forces to extend and make more
secure human opportunities and group practices; and
      (7)   Encourage community support for educational programs and, where
appropriate, legislation designed to reduce tension and eliminate
discriminatory practices arising from group prejudice.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.070)
   (H)   Direction and control. The activities, powers and procedures of the
Commission shall at all times be under the direction and control of the
governing body of the city. The Commission can be terminated at any time by
ordinance duly passed by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.080)
(Ord. 2407, passed - -1968)
§ 32.002 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby established in the city a “Fort Scott
Planning Commission” under the authority of K.S.A. 12-744 et seq., for the
purpose of recommending and advising the governing body of the city on matters
pertaining to the planning, zoning and subdivision administration of all legal
territory and property inside the city limits.
   (B)   Name. The name of the Commission shall be the “City of Fort Scott,
Kansas, Planning Commission”.
   (C)   Planning area. The planning area shall be defined as all legal
territory and property within the legal boundaries of the city.
   (D)   Appointment, members, terms, vacancy filling, compensation.
      (1)   Members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed by the
governing body.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members.
         (a)   Four members shall be residents of the city and reside within
the legal boundaries of the city.
         (b)   Two members shall reside outside the legal boundaries of the
city, but within a three-mile radius of the city’s legal boundaries.
         (c)   One member may reside outside of the legal boundaries of the
city, but within a three-mile radius of the city’s legal boundaries.
      (3)   Members of the Planning Commission shall serve a term of three
years.
         (a)   The expiration of terms shall be staggered so that three members
terms of office shall expire during the same year, and the other four members
terms of office shall expire the following year and continue in this fashion
thereafter.
         (b)   Appointments or terms served by a member of the Planning
Commission made prior to the effective date of this section shall not result in
forfeiture of office due to conflict in residency and members shall continue to
serve for the unexpired term.
      (4)   Vacancies shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term
only.
      (5)   Board members shall serve without compensation.
   (E)   Removal from office. A member of the Planning Commission, once
appointed, shall not be removed during their term of office, except for
reasonable cause, and only after a hearing is held before the governing body of
the city in which a majority vote is made.
   (F)   Election of Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. Within 30 days after
passage hereof and on an annual basis, the Board shall meet and organize its
membership, electing two of its members as Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson for
year of their term. The City Clerk and/or a designated representative as
appointed by the City Manager shall serve as the Secretary for the Board. Each
officer shall serve until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified.
   (G)   Bylaws, record-keeping. The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws,
including rules for the transaction of business, which rules and bylaws shall
be approved by the governing body of the city. The Planning Commission shall
keep a record of its functions and activities, which shall be a public record.
   (H)   Quorum. Four members of the Planning Commission shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting. No action by the
Planning Commission shall be taken, except by a majority vote of the members
present and voting.
   (I)   Meetings. The Planning Commission shall meet bi-monthly at such time
and place as may be fixed by resolution. Special meetings may be called at any
time by the Chairperson or, in his or her absence, by the Vice-Chairperson. All
meetings shall be open to the public.
   (J)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have the functions,
duties and powers as provided by K.S.A. 12-744 et seq.
   (K)   Budget and expenditures. In the exercise of its functions, duties and
powers, the Planning Commission shall prepare an annual budget; shall have
authority to make expenditures upon vouchers executed by proper officers of the
Planning Commission from funds appropriated by the governing body of the city,
such funds to be held by the City Treasurer, who is designated as fiscal agent
of the Planning Commission; shall have authority to receive, accept and expend
funds, grants and services from the United States Government or its agencies
and instrumentalities in state and local governments, and from private persons
or organizations.
(Ord. 3762, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 32.003 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Number of members. The city hereby and herewith changes its current
three-member Board of Zoning Appeals to a Board of Zoning Appeals containing
five members.
(Prior Code, § 2.22.010)
   (B)   Residency requirement; term of membership. Four Board members shall be
residents of the city, and one Board member shall be a resident of the area
outside the city limits, to be appointed by the City Commission. None of the
members shall hold any other public office in the city, except one member may
be a member of the Planning Commission. The members shall serve four years with
the expiration staggered so that three members terms of office shall expire
during the same year and the other two members term of office shall expire the
following year and continuing in this fashion thereafter. Vacancies shall be
filled by appointment for the unexpired term only. Board members shall serve
without pay.
(Prior Code, § 2.22.020)
   (C)   Adoption of regulations; meetings. The Board shall annually elect one
member as Chairperson and shall appoint a Secretary. The Board may adopt any
other regulations it deems necessary for it to carry out its function. Meetings
of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other
times as the Board may determine. The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing evidence presented, findings of fact by the Board,
decision of the Board and a vote upon each question.
(Prior Code, § 2.22.030)
(Ord. 2730, passed - -1979; Ord. 3498, passed 3-28-2017)
§ 32.004 OLD FORT GOVERNING BOARD.
   (A)   Created; function. The city hereby creates and officially designates a
committee called the “Old Fort Governing Board”. The function of the Old Fort
Governing Board will be to advise the City Manager and the Board of
Commissioners on all matters referred to it by the City Manager or the Board of
Commissioners with reference to the Fort Scott Historical Site.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.010)
   (B)   Members; appointment; term. The Old Fort Governing Board shall be
composed of 15 members. The members are to be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners. The terms of office for Old Fort Governing Board members will be
two years. One-half of the members will initially be appointed after the
adoption of the ordinance codified in this section, for a one-year term, and
the other one-half will be appointed, after the adoption of the ordinance
codified in this chapter, for a two-year term. This will allow for continuity
on the Board at all times.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.020)
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Old Fort Governing Board shall have the
following specific responsibilities and duties:
      (1)   To solicit and assist in coordination of volunteer activities at
the historic site; and
      (2)   To advise the Board of Commissioners and the City Manager on all
matters referred to the board by the Board of Commissioners and the City
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.030)
   (D)   Meetings. The Old Fort Governing Board shall meet at least once a
month, at a date and time to be determined by the Governing Board or more
often, if necessary.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.040)
   (E)   Quorum. A quorum of more than 50% of the members on the Governing
Board will be necessary for the conduct of any business before the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.050)
   (F)   Members; attendance requirement; removal when. For a member to
maintain good standing on the Board, he or she must attend more than 50% of all
meetings held by the Board during any given calendar year. If a member fails to
meet this attendance requirement, he or she may be removed from the Board
forthwith by a majority vote of the Governing Board members at any regular
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.060)
(Ord. 2670, passed - -1977)
§ 32.005 PARKS BOARD.
   (A)   Creation. By this creation of the ordinance codified herein, there is
created a “Fort Scott Parks Board of the City of Fort Scott, Kansas”.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.010)
   (B)   Function. The function of this Board will be to serve as a planning
and advisory group to the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.020)
   (C)   Membership; terms. The Board shall consist of seven members, who shall
be appointed by the City Commission. Three members of the Board shall serve for
a two-year term and four members of the Board shall serve for a three-year
term. The City Manager will appoint a staff member to serve as a liaison
between the Advisory Board and City Commission and will attend all Advisory
Board meetings. All members shall be residents of the city. Members of the
Board shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.030)
   (D)   Election of Chairperson. The Board shall elect a Chairperson and a
Vice-Chairperson from among its members.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.040)
   (E)   Purpose. The city’s Parks Board shall recommend and make suggestions
to the City Manager and governing body regarding all the parks located within
the city limits. In addition, the Board shall make recommendations and reports
to the governing body on all matters within a reasonable time after such
request is made by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.050)
(Ord. 3603, passed 3-15-2022; Ord. 3565, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 32.006 DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT BOARD.
   (A)   Created. The city hereby creates a Downtown Redevelopment Board.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.010)
   (B)   Membership; term. The Board shall be composed of seven members to be
appointed by the City Commission. The first four members appointed shall serve
a one-year term and the next three members appointed shall serve a two-year
term. After the original appointments, all members shall serve two-year terms.
Vacancies shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term only.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.020)
   (C)   Ex officio members. The City Manager, the city’s National Historic
Site Superintendent, the Chairperson of the Downtown Retail Merchants Committee
and the Executive Director of the Fort Scott Area Chamber of Commerce shall
serve as ex officio Board members with no voting privileges.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.030)
   (D)   Procedure. The Board shall annually elect one member as Chairperson or
Co-Chairperson and shall appoint a Secretary. The Board may adopt any other
regulations it deems necessary for it to carry out its functions, including,
but not limited to, formation of committees. Meetings of the Board shall be
held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may
determine. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing evidence
presented, findings of fact of the Board, decisions of the Board and a vote
upon each question.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.040)
   (E)   Purpose. The primary purpose of the Board will be to serve as a
planning and advisory group to the City Commissioners on all matters relating
to the development of Downtown Fort Scott, for the purposes of the Board, will
cover an area which is bordered on the north by the National Historic Site, on
the west by Judson Street on the south by Third Street and on the east by the
U.S. 69 bypass.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.050)
   (F)   Quorum. Four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business at any meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.060)
(Ord. 2774, passed - -1980; Ord. 2865, passed - -1983)
§ 32.007 BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT AND ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Boundaries and name of district.
      (1)   A Business Improvement District, as provided for in the Business
Improvement District Act in the state, is created for the Downtown Business
District of Fort Scott and described as follows: Judson Street on the west;
Third Street on the south; Highway 69 on the east; and National Historic Site
and Elm Street on the north, as set out in Exhibit A, attached to the ordinance
codified herein, which is on file in the office of the City Clerk.
      (2)   The name of the district shall be the Downtown Business Improvement
District.
(Prior Code, § 2.46.010)
   (B)   Services to be provided. The Downtown Business Improvement District
shall be created to provide to the businesses in the Improvement District the
services and activities as recommended by the Downtown Business Improvement
District Advisory Board and adopted by the governing body in the city budget.
(Prior Code, § 2.46.020)
   (C)   Methods used to finance services. The activities described in division
(B) above shall be financed through a combination of contributions from the
public sector at large and through a fee assessed by the city to each business,
as defined by the act, in the Business Improvement District according to the
type of business and/or the gross leasable area (floor space) used for
retailing or business activities. Fees shall be set according to the following
scale:
 
Class Description                                          Fee
1     Non-retail                                           $80
2     Retail: per owner and employee                       $70 each
3     Retail: 0 - 1,500 sq. ft of gross leasable area      $80
4     Retail: 1,500 - 5,000 sq. ft. of gross leasable area $140
5     Retail: 5,000 sq. ft. or more of gross leasable area $200
 
(Prior Code, § 2.46.030)
   (D)   Budget.
      (1)   Fees collected through the assessment of businesses in the Downtown
Business Improvement District in accordance with division (C) above shall be
expended for the services recommended by the Business Improvement District
Advisory Board and adopted by the governing body in the city budget.
      (2)   Expenditure of revenues collected from the Business Improvement
District shall be in accordance with the requirements of the Business
Improvement District Act.
(Prior Code, § 2.46.040)
   (E)   Assessment of fees. All fees assessed to businesses in the Improvement
District as provided for in this section shall be collected by the city in two
installments in January and July of each year. Fees collected in January shall
authorize operation of a business for the months of January through June of the
calendar year in which they are collected. If said fees are not collected
during January of said year, then they shall be deemed to be past due. Fees
collected in July shall authorize operation of a business for July through
December. If said fees are not collected during the month of July, then the
fees for the second half of the year shall be deemed to be past due. Fees on
vacant commercial property will be assessed to the property owner based on
gross leasable area available for commercial activities. The fees established
by this section shall remain in effect until it is necessary to adjust the fees
to meet budgetary needs as recommended by the Board and adopted by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 2.46.050)
   (F)   Downtown Business Improvement District Advisory Board. The Downtown
Business Improvement District Advisory Board is established in accordance with
the provisions of the Business Improvement District Act. The purpose of the
Advisory Board is to monitor and oversee the provision of services, as
established by the ordinance codified in this section. The Board shall, not
later than May 15 of each year, submit to the governing body a recommended
program of services to be performed or provided within the district during the
coming calendar year and a proposed budget to accomplish these objectives. In
addition, the Board shall submit a proposed schedule of fees for assessment on
the businesses in the district and may recommend consideration of changes in
the boundaries of the district. The assessment per business cannot increase
more than 10% per year without notification of all participating businesses of
a public hearing to consider the increase. There shall be nine members of the
Downtown Business Improvement District Advisory Board, who shall be appointed
by the Mayor with the consent of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 2.46.060)
   (G)   Term of office.
      (1)   Members appointed to the Board shall be representatives of the
businesses located within the district. Of the members first appointed to the
Advisory Board, six shall be appointed for a term of one year and six shall be
appointed for a term of two years. On the expiration of the term of each Board
member, subsequent terms shall be for a period of two years.
      (2)   Any vacancy occurring in the membership of the Business Improvement
District Advisory Board shall be filled by appointment from the City Commission
for the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2.46.070)
   (H)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The amount of any unpaid fee, the payment of which is required
under this section, shall constitute a debt due to the city. The City Attorney
shall, at the direction of the City Manager, institute civil suit in the name
of the city to recover any such unpaid fee. No civil judgment shall bar or
prevent a criminal prosecution for each and every violation of the ordinance
codified in this section.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is the owner or operator of
any business required to pay a fee, pursuant to the ordinance codified in this
section, to continue the operation of said business after the fee has become
past due and remains unpaid.
(Prior Code, § 2.46.080)
(Ord. 2924, passed - -1985; Ord. 2951, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.008 LAROCHE BASEBALL COMPLEX ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Creation.
      (1)   There is hereby established in the city a LaRoche Baseball Complex
Advisory Board for the purpose of advising the City Manager and City
Commissioners on matters pertaining to the continued improvement of the
baseball complex.
      (2)   The city acknowledges and ratifies the acts of the LaRoche Baseball
Complex as such Board has existed de facto, but not formally created.
(Prior Code, § 2.72.010)
   (B)   Membership; term.
      (1)   (a)   Said Board shall consist of three members who are
representatives of:
            1.   City of Fort Scott;
            2.   USD 234; and
            3.   LaRoche family.
         (b)   Said persons shall be appointed by the governing body and their
term shall be for three years.
      (2)   Within 30 days after passage hereof and on an annual basis, the
Board shall meet and organize its membership, electing one of its members as
Chairperson and one of its members as Vice-Chairperson. Thereafter, said Board
shall meet once each quarter as well as the request of the Mayor or City
Manager or at the request of the majority of the members of said Board, with
the Board establishing its own operating procedures.
(Prior Code, § 2.72.020)
   (C)   Purpose. The LaRoche Baseball Complex Advisory Board shall recommend
and make suggestions to the City Manager and governing body and USD 234
Superintendent regarding the continued growth of, and public improvements to
the baseball complex, including the acquisition of additional property,
construction, reconstruction and maintenance of the baseball complex
facilities, and institution of programs and procedures which will increase
usage of said facilities. In addition, the Board shall make recommendations and
reports to the governing body on all matters within a reasonable time after
such request is made by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 2.72.030)
   (D)   Control and management. The control and management of the LaRoche
Baseball Complex shall be under the jurisdiction of the City Manager or his or
her designated agent. All employees and officers deemed necessary to operate
the LaRoche Baseball Complex shall be appointed, employed, disciplined,
supervised and terminated in the same manner as other employees and officers of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.72.040)
(Ord. 3462, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 32.009 CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby established in the city a Fort Scott
Convention and Visitors Bureau Advisory Board for the purpose of advising the
City Manager and City Commissioners on matters pertaining to continued growth
of tourism in the city and surrounding area.
(Prior Code, § 2.76.010)
   (B)   Membership; term. That said Board shall consist of a minimum of five
and not more than nine who are representatives of the lodging and hospitality
market, restaurants, tourist attractions, one at-large member, one ex officio
member from a tourist attraction in the county, one member representing the
Chamber of Commerce and the Director of Tourism for the city. Said persons
shall be appointed by the governing body and their terms shall be for three
years with no person to serve more than two consecutive terms, hereafter the
approval of this section by the governing body. The expiration dates will be
staggered so that three members terms of office shall expire during the same
year and the other remaining members terms of office shall expire the following
year and continuing in this fashion thereafter. Vacancies shall be filled by
appointment for the unexpired term only. Board members shall serve without pay.
(Prior Code, § 2.76.020)
   (C)   Election of officers. Within 30 days after passage hereof and on an
annual basis, the Board shall meet and organize its membership, electing one of
its members as Chairperson and one of its members as Secretary. Thereafter,
said Board shall meet once each quarter as well as at the request of the Mayor
or City Manager or at the request of the majority of the members of said Board,
with the Board establishing its own operating procedures.
(Prior Code, § 2.76.030)
   (D)   Purpose. The city’s Convention and Visitors Bureau Advisory Board
shall recommend and make suggestions to the City Manager and governing body
regarding tourism, events, grants and advertising, concerning the marketing of
the city by the Tourism Office. In addition, the Board shall make
recommendations and reports to the governing body on all matters within a
reasonable time after such request is made by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 2.76.040)
   (E)   Control and management. The control and management of the Tourism
Office shall be under the jurisdiction of the City Manager or his or her
designated agent. All employees and officers deemed necessary to operate the
tourism office shall be appointed, employed, disciplined, supervised and
terminated in the same manner as other employees and officers of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.76.050)
(Ord. 3510, passed 6-6-2017; Ord. 3517, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 32.010 BOURBON COUNTY FOOD ALLIANCE.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities. The city’s Board of Commissioners
approves the establishment of BCFA to achieve the following:
      (1)   Increase access to nutritious and safe food for all residents;
      (2)   Enhance economic development and entrepreneurial opportunities
related to local food production and consumption;
      (3)   Improve health outcomes;
      (4)   Increase education and awareness of how to use healthy foods,
including locally produced, at home or at businesses and institutions;
      (5)   Bring stakeholders together and provide mechanisms for seeking
stakeholder advice and expertise;
      (6)   Coordinate and collaborate with new and existing programs within
the community and other county and state food policy organizations regionally;
      (7)   Support local producers, processors and distributors of food
products;
      (8)   Engage youth of the community to build healthy life skills; and
      (9)   Enhance the ability of local organizations to impact awareness and
consumption of healthy food options.
(Prior Code, § 2.80.010)
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The BCFA shall consists of a minimum of six and not more than ten
members. The Board of Commissioners will appoint three members to the BCFA,
responsible for reporting progress to the Commission. An additional three to
seven members will be nominated by the membership and approved by the Board of
Commissioners. Membership shall represent diverse food-related sectors and
groups such as:
         (a)   Community at-large;
         (b)   Producers;
         (c)   City, county and state officials;
         (d)   Youth;
         (e)   Senior citizens;
         (f)   Community and faith based organization;
         (g)   Restaurants;
         (h)   Food security representatives;
         (i)   Economic development representatives;
         (j)   Health professionals;
         (k)   Agriculture organizations;
         (l)   Schools and institutions;
         (m)   Food retail;
         (n)   Kansas State Research and Extension; and
         (o)   Local Health Department.
      (2)   The city will provide staff support to the BCFA as available.
(Prior Code, § 2.80.020)
   (C)   Meetings. The first meeting for BCFA shall be held on or before 12-30-
2017. Meetings shall be held a minimum of six times per year and minutes shall
be promptly recorded and made available to the public.
(Prior Code, § 2.80.030)
   (D)   Reporting and evaluation. BCFA shall prepare a quarterly report for
the Board of Commissioners on the progress and successes related to the
purpose, duties and responsibilities of the alliance. After one year, the
reporting schedule will be reevaluated. The city or its designee shall evaluate
the BCFA every three years to determine its success in improving the food
environment in the community.
(Prior Code, § 2.80.040)
   (E)   Funding. BCFA may actively seek grant funding for its activities.
(Prior Code, § 2.80.050)
(Ord. 3515, passed 7-18-2017)
§ 32.011 STREET ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby established in the city a Fort Scott Street
Advisory Board for the purpose of recommending and advising the City Manager
and City Commission on matters pertaining to the streets inside the city
limits.
   (B)   Membership; term. Said Board shall consist of five voting members. At
minimum, three voting members must reside within the city limits and two voting
members who may reside within the three-mile radius of the city’s boundaries.
The City Manager, and/or his, her or their designated representative(s) will
serve as non-voting ex officio. As ex officio, the staff member(s) will act as
liaison(s) between city staff and the Board. Additionally, the City Commission
will appoint one City Commissioner, who will serve as a non-voting ex officio.
The appointed City Commissioner will act as a non-voting liaison between the
City Commission and the Board. Members residing within city limits shall be
appointed by the governing body and their term shall be for three years.
Members residing outside of city limits shall be appointed by the governing
body and their term shall be for two years. Vacancies shall be filled by
appointment for the unexpired term only. Board members shall serve without pay.
   (C)   Election of Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. Within 30 days after
passage hereof and on an annual basis, the Board shall meet and organize its
membership, electing two of its members as Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson.
Thereafter, said Board shall meet once each quarter, as well as at the request
of the Mayor or City Manager or at the request of the majority of the members
of said Board, with the Board establishing its own operating procedures.
   (D)   Purpose. The city’s Street Advisory Board shall recommend and make
suggestions to the City Manager and governing body regarding streets, street
repairs and brick streets located within the city limits. In addition, the
Board shall make recommendations and reports to the governing body on all
matters within a reasonable time after such request is made by the governing
body.
(Ord. 3760, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 32.012 LAND BANK BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Creation; purpose. The Fort Scott Land Bank is hereby established
pursuant to K.S.A. 12-5901 et seq. The Fort Scott Land Bank is an independent
agency and instrumentality of the city with the primary responsibility and
authority to efficiently acquire, hold, manage, transform and convey surplus
city properties and other abandoned, tax foreclosed or otherwise underutilized
or distressed properties in order to convey these properties for productive
use.
(Prior Code, § 17.14.010)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      BANK. The Fort Scott Land Bank established pursuant to this section.
      BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Fort Scott Land Bank.
      CITY. The City of Fort Scott, Kansas.
      GOVERNING BODY. The governing body of the City of Fort Scott.
(Prior Code, § 17.14.020)
   (C)   Appointment; terms; vacancy; compensation; dissolution.
      (1)   There is hereby established a Fort Scott Land Bank Board of
Trustees. The Board shall be composed of five Board members.
         (a)   One Board member shall be a City Commissioner, appointed from
the Board of City Commissioners.
         (b)   The remaining four members shall be appointed by the governing
body of the city and those members shall serve for a term of three years from
the date of appointment by the governing body. Appointments may include the
following professions, which are recommended, but not mandatory: one individual
who represents banking; one individual who represents developers; one
individual who represents real estate; and one individual at large of the
community.
      (2)   Vacancies shall be filled by appointment only and shall serve for a
term as set forth herein.
      (3)   Members of the Board of Trustees shall receive no compensation, but
shall be paid their actual and necessary expenses in carrying out their duties
as members of the Board.
      (4)   The City Manager, and/or his, her or their designated
representative(s), shall provide technical support to the Board of Trustees.
Additional support may be contracted as deemed necessary by the Fort Scott Land
Bank Board of Trustees.
      (5)   The Fort Scott Land Bank Board of Trustees may be dissolved by
ordinance of the governing body of the city, without cause. In such case, all
property of the Land Bank shall be transferred to and held by the city and may
be disposed of as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 17.14.030)
   (D)   Officers; organization.
      (1)   The Board shall select, annually, from its membership a
Chairperson, a Vice- Chairperson, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Treasurer
shall be bonded in such amounts as the governing body may require.
      (2)   The Board may appoint such officers, agents and employees as it may
require for the performance of its duties, and shall determine the
qualifications and duties and fix the compensation of such officers, agents and
employees.
      (3)   The Board shall fix the time and place at which its meetings shall
be held. Meetings shall be held within the city and shall be subject to the
state’s Open Meeting Act, K.S.A. 75-4317 et seq., and amendments thereto.
      (4)   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. No action of the Board shall be binding unless taken
at a meeting at which at least a quorum is present.
      (5)   The members of the Board shall be subject lo the provisions of the
laws of the state, which relate to conflicts of interest of city officers and
employees, including, but not limited to, K.S.A. 75-4301 et seq. and amendments
thereto.
      (6)   Subject to the provisions of the state’s Tort Claims Act, K.S.A.
75-6101 et seq. and amendments thereto, if any action at law or equity, or
other legal proceeding, shall be brought against any member of the Board for
any act or omission arising out of the performance of duties as a member of the
Board, such member shall be indemnified in whole and held harmless by the Board
for any judgment or decree entered against such member and, further, shall be
defended at the cost and expense of the bank in any such proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 17.14.040)
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Land Bank Board of Trustees shall have the
following powers and duties:
      (1)   To sue and be sued;
      (2)   To enter into contracts;
      (3)   To appoint and remove staff and provide for the compensation
thereof;
      (4)   To acquire, by purchase, gift or devise, and convey any real
property, including easements and reversionary interest, and personal property,
subject to the provisions of this section and slate law;
      (5)   To rebate all or any portion thereof, the taxes on any property
sold or conveyed by the bank;
      (6)   To exercise any other power which may be delegated to the bank by
the governing body; and
      (7)   To exercise any other incidental power which is necessary to carry
out the purposes of the land bank and state law.
(Prior Code, § 17.14.050)
   (F)   Administration of property. The Board shall assume possession and
control of any acquired property by it under this section or state law and
shall hold and administer such property. In the administration of property, the
Board shall:
      (1)   Manage, maintain and protect or temporarily use for a public
purpose such property in the manner the Board deems appropriate;
      (2)   Compile and maintain a written inventory of all such property. The
inventory shall be available for public inspection and distribution at all
times;
      (3)   Study, analyze and evaluate potential, present and future uses for
such property which would provide for the effective reutilization of such
property;
      (4)   Plan for and use the Board’s best efforts to consummate the sale or
other disposition of such property at such times and upon such terms and
conditions deemed appropriate;
      (5)   Establish and maintain records and accounts reflecting all
transactions, expenditures and revenues in relation to the bank’s activities,
including separate itemizations of all transactions, expenditures and revenues
concerning each individual parcel of property acquired; and
      (6)   No less than 30 days prior to the sale of any property owned by the
bank, publish a notice in the official city newspaper announcing such sale.
(Prior Code, § 17.14.060)
   (G)   Budget; records; report.
      (1)   The bank shall be subject to the provisions of the Cash Basis Law,
K.S.A. 10-1101 et seq. and amendments thereto.
      (2)   The budget of the bank shall be prepared, adopted and published as
provided by law for other political subdivisions of the state. No budget shall
be adopted by the Board until it has been reviewed and approved by the
governing body. If the governing body elects not to ratify the budget, it must
reject the plan in its entirety and remand it back to the Board with specific
recommendations for reconsideration.
      (3)   The Board shall keep accurate accounts of all receipts and
disbursements. The receipts and disbursements of the Board shall be audited
yearly by a certified or licensed public accountant and the report of the audit
shall be included in and become part of the annual report of the Board.
      (4)   All records and accounts shall be subject to public inspection
pursuant to K.S.A. 45-216 et seq. and amendments thereto.
      (5)   Any moneys of the bank which are not immediately required for the
purposes of the bank shall be invested in the manner prescribed by K.S.A. 12-
1675, and amendments thereto.
      (6)   The bank shall make an annual report to the governing body on or
before January 31 of each year, showing receipts and disbursements from all
funds under its control and showing all property transactions occurring in each
year. Such report shall include an inventory of all property held by the bank.
A copy of such inventory shall also be published in the official city newspaper
on or before January 31 of each year.
      (7)   The bank shall be subject to the statutory requirements for the
deposit of public money as provided in K.S.A. 9-1401 et seq. and amendments
thereto.
      (8)   The Board, without competitive bidding, may sell any property
acquired by the board at such times, to such persons, and upon such terms and
conditions, and subject to such restrictions and covenants deemed necessary or
appropriate to assure the property’s effective reutilization.
      (9)   The sale of any real property by the Board, under the provisions of
this section or state law, on which there are delinquent special assessments to
finance public improvements shall be conditioned upon the approval of the
governing body.
      (10)   The Board, for the purpose of land disposition, may consolidate,
assemble or subdivide individual parcels of property acquired by the bank.
      (11)   Until sold or otherwise disposed of by the bank, and except for
special assessments levied by the city to finance public improvements, any
property acquired by the bank shall be exempt from the payment of ad valorem
taxes levied by the state and any other political or taxing subdivision of the
state.
      (12)   Except for special assessments levied by the city to finance
public improvements, when the Board acquires property pursuant to this section
and state law, the County Treasurer shall remove from the tax rolls all taxes,
assessments, charges, penalties and interest that are due and payable on the
property at the time of acquisition by the Board.
      (13)   Property held by the bank shall remain liable for special
assessments levied by the city for public improvements, but no payment thereof
shall be required until such property is sold or otherwise conveyed by the
bank.
      (14)   The governing body may abate part or all of any special
assessments which it has levied on property acquired by the bank, and the bank
and the governing body may enter into agreements related thereto. Any special
assessments that are abated shall be removed from the tax rolls by the county
treasurer as of the effective date of the abatement.
      (15)   Any moneys derived from the sale of property by the bank shall be
retained by the bank for the purposes and operations thereof; provided,
however, that, the Board may use all or part of the proceeds from such sale to
reimburse the city for delinquent special assessments due on such property.
      (16)   The Board may establish separate neighborhood or city advisory
committees consisting of persons living or owning property within the city or
neighborhood. In the case of neighborhood advisory committees, the Board shall
determine the boundaries of each neighborhood. In the absence of a resolution
by the Board providing otherwise, each advisory committee shall consist of not
less than five, nor more than nine, persons, to be appointed by the Board for
two-year, overlapping terms. The Board shall consult with each advisory
committee as needed to review the operations and activities of the bank and to
receive the advices of the members of the advisory committee concerning any
matter which comes before the committees.
(Prior Code, § 17.14.070)
(Ord. 3535, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 3770, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
32.007(H) of this chapter shall be fined in a sum no greater than $500. Each
day of said violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2.46.080) (Ord. 2924, passed - -1985; Ord. 2951, passed - -1986)
CHAPTER 33: REVENUE, FINANCE AND FUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Idle moneys; investment
Funds
   
33.015   Employee Benefits Contribution Fund
   
33.016   Social Liability Expense Fund
   
33.017   Economic Development Revolving Loan Fund
   
33.018   Equipment Reserve Fund
   
33.019   Capital Improvement Fund
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 33.001 IDLE MONEYS; INVESTMENT.
   (A)   Investments permitted.
      (1)   Temporarily idle moneys of the city not currently needed may be
invested in:
         (a)   Direct obligations of the United States government which mature
in one year from date of purchase and which are guaranteed as to principal by
the United States government;
         (b)   Temporary notes of the city, issued pursuant to K.S.A. 10-123,
as amended;
         (c)   Adequately secured bank certificates of deposit;
         (d)   Insured savings and loan association accounts;
         (e)   No-fund warrants of the city;
         (f)   General obligation bonds of the city; or
         (g)   Adequately secured bank time-deposit, open accounts.
      (2)   The term BANK TIME-DEPOSIT, OPEN ACCOUNT, as used in this section,
means a city bank account which is a bank deposit, other than a time
certificate of deposit, with respect to which there is in force a written
contract between the city and the designated bank, which provides that neither
the whole or any part of the deposit may be withdrawn, by check or otherwise,
prior to:
         (a)   The date of maturity, which shall be no less than 30 days after
the date of deposit; or
         (b)   The expiration of the period of notice, which must be given by
the city, in writing, not less than 30 days in advance of withdrawal.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.010)
   (B)   Procedure. The City Treasurer shall report to the Board of
Commissioners as to the amount of money available for investment and shall
submit recommendations for investment. The Board of Commissioners shall
determine the amount, method and term of any investment and the type of
investment to be made. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
fund of the city, the investment of which is expressly authorized or limited or
prohibited by statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.020)
   (C)   Interest crediting. The interest or other earnings from investments
made pursuant to this section shall be credited pro rata to the fund or funds
from which the investments were made.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.030)
(Ord. 2457, passed - -1971)
**** FUNDS ****
§ 33.015 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby and herewith creates, under the authority of K.S.A.
12-16,102, an Employee Benefits Contribution Fund to be funded with a tax levy
above and beyond those taxes allowed under the limitations imposed by K.S.A.
12-16,102, inclusive, and amendments thereto.
   (B)   Said fund shall provide for the city’s portion of the following
benefits paid to or on behalf of employees of said city:
      (1)   City’s share of Social Security tax;
      (2)   K.P.E.R.S.;
      (3)   Workers’ compensation insurance;
      (4)   Unemployment compensation contribution to state fund;
      (5)   City’s share of health insurance for employees;
      (6)   Cancer insurance premiums; and
      (7)   The city’s share of contributions to the state’s Police and Fire
Pension Funds.
(Prior Code, § 3.16.010) (Ord. 2731, passed - -1979)
§ 33.016 SOCIAL LIABILITY EXPENSE FUND.
   The city establishes and creates a Special Liability Expense Fund, under the
state’s Tort Claims Act, for the purpose of paying all direct and indirect
costs resulting from the implementation of the state’s Tort Claims Act. Said
costs shall include, but shall not be limited to the cost of providing legal
defense, payment of claims, purchase of insurance for payment of claims under
said act, establishment of a self-insurance fund and all other identifiable
costs associated with the implementation of said Act.
(Prior Code, § 3.20.010) (Ord. 2737, passed - -1979)
§ 33.017 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REVOLVING LOAN FUND.
   (A)   Declaration of purpose. It is declared by the city that an Economic
Development Revolving Loan Fund (the “fund”) is established for the purpose of
making available for loans to private firms certain moneys obtained by the
city. The fund shall consist of the principal and interest repaid to the city
by the private firms who have received business financing loans from the city.
Subsequent payments to the fund shall consist of the principal and interest
from future loans made directly by the city, or through future Community
Development Block grant projects. In addition, interest earned by the fund
shall be retained in the fund. Reasonable expenses accruing to the city in
managing the fund may be paid from the fund. Nothing in this section shall
preclude the governing body from contributing moneys to the fund from other
sources.
(Prior Code, § 3.28.010)
   (B)   Budgeting authority. The governing body of the city will be in charge
of the budgeting of the fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.28.020)
   (C)   Applicant screening. The governing body shall screen the applicants of
those applying for assistance from the fund, based upon the criteria and
guidelines for the fund with regard to the application.
(Prior Code, § 3.28.030)
   (D)   Decision-making authority.
      (1)   The decisions regarding which applicants are funded, the terms of
the loans, the rates of interest and other matters shall be made by the
governing body, which decisions shall be based generally upon criteria and
guidelines established.
      (2)   However, for good and sufficient reasons, the governing body may
waive or add to any criteria or guidelines if it is determined to be in the
best interest of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.28.040)
   (E)   Application process. The following is the process to be followed by an
applicant seeking loans from the fund.
      (1)   Applicants must use the application form, personal financial
statement form and use of loan proceeds form supplied by the city. All forms
can be picked up from the City Clerk and returned to the same upon completion.
      (2)   If the governing body favorably reviews an application, the matter
shall be turned over to the city staff to complete the details on the project.
      (3)   Letters of commitment from private sources or financial
institutions confirming the required private financing, which may be required
in the project, shall be included with the application.
      (4)   Some of the factors to be considered by the governing body in
reviewing the applications shall include, but are not limited to: the number of
full-time and low-to-moderate income permanent jobs created; the ratio of jobs
to the loan amount requested; the percent and/or amount of the available fond
balance requested; and the percent and/or amount of private sector funds put
into the project. Other factors may also be considered.
      (5)   Loans from the funds shall not exceed 20 years.
(Prior Code, § 3.28.050)
   (F)   Interest and payment schedule. Interest on the loan and payback
schedule shall be a matter of negotiation between the city and the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 3.28.060)
(Ord. 2961, passed - -1987)
§ 33.018 EQUIPMENT RESERVE FUND.
   The city establishes and creates an Equipment Reserve Fund, pursuant to
K.S.A. 12-1,117, to assist in budgeting funds and depositing those funds into
an Equipment Reserve Fund in order to minimize the necessity for creating debt
to purchase municipal equipment. Funds may be deposited from the city budget on
an annual basis for the purposes stated herein to assist the city in financing
new and replacement equipment.
(Prior Code, § 3.32.010) (Ord. 3087, passed - -1994)
§ 33.019 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Established. The city, by the power invested in it by K.S.A. 12-1,118,
hereby elects to establish a Capital Improvement Fund for public improvement
and infrastructure needs of the city, as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 3.36.010)
   (B)   Purpose. The Capital Improvement Funds shall be used in whole or in
part for the funding of any public improvement; and/or acquisition, erection,
expansion, installation, improvement, renovation and replacement of city
facilities and equipment.
(Prior Code, § 3.36.020)
   (C)   Fund transfer. Funds may be transferred to the Capital Improvement
Fund from other city funds lawfully available for improvement purposes to the
Capital Improvements Fund, including moneys in the city’s Federal General
Revenue Sharing Fund and General Fund. Any general property tax specifically
levied for the use of such fund shall be authorized by ordinance adopted under
the provisions of § 5 of Article 12 of the Kansas Constitution.
(Prior Code, § 3.36.030)
   (D)   Public improvements. Moneys in such Capital Improvements Fund may be
used to finance, in whole or in part, any public improvement need, including
the repair, restoration and rehabilitation of existing public facilities, and
may be used for engineering and other advance public improvement plans and
studies with reimbursements made to the fund from bond proceeds, special
assessments or state or federal aid available for the completed project.
(Prior Code, § 3.36.040)
   (E)   Authority. The fund shall be in the custody of the Finance Director of
the city and all moneys in such fund may be invested in accordance with the
provisions of K.S.A. 10-131 and amendments thereto, with interest thereon
credited to such fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.36.050)
   (F)   Report required. Annually, the Finance Director shall submit to the
City Commission a complete and detailed report of the condition of such fund,
which report shall be made a part of the city annual report.
(Prior Code, § 3.36.060)
   (G)   Dissolution of fund. Upon dissolution of the fund, any remaining
balance shall be paid over into the General Fund or such other fund as the
ordinance terminating said fund shall direct.
(Prior Code, § 3.36.070)
(Ord. 3330, passed - -2007)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE
Section
   
34.001   Establishment
   
34.002   Tax imposed
   
34.003   Initial tax rate
   
34.004   Annual tax rate review
§ 34.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The governing body of the city finds and determines it to be in the public
interest and for the protection of the public health to provide for the
operation of an emergency telephone service and the levying of an emergency
telephone tax for payment of such service in those portions of the jurisdiction
for which emergency telephone service has been contracted, all as provided by
K.S.A. 12-5301 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.010) (Ord. 3098, passed - -1994)
§ 34.002 TAX IMPOSED.
   There shall be imposed an emergency telephone tax to provide funds for the
payment of such emergency telephone service in an amount not to exceed $0.75
per month per exchange access line in those portions of the jurisdiction for
which emergency telephone service is or shall be contracted, and such
imposition shall be effective 61 days after the publication of the ordinance
codified in this chapter unless a petition is filed with the county’s Election
Officer signed by not less than 5% of the registered voters of the city. In the
event said petition is filed, the imposition of said tax shall be effective
upon a majority of the voters casting ballots in favor of the installation of
the system.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.020) (Ord. 3098, passed - -1994)
§ 34.003 INITIAL TAX RATE.
   The initial tax rate is established at $0.75 per month per exchange access
line in those portions of the jurisdiction for which emergency telephone
service has been contracted.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.030) (Ord. 3098, passed - -1994)
§ 34.004 ANNUAL TAX RATE REVIEW.
   At least once each calendar year, the governing body shall establish a tax
rate, not to exceed the amount authorized, that together with any surplus
revenues carried forward will produce sufficient revenues to fund the
expenditures authorized by this chapter. Amounts collected in excess of that
necessary within a given year shall be carried forward to subsequent years. The
governing body shall make its determination of such tax rate each subsequent
year no later than September 1 and shall fix the new rate to take effect
commencing with the first billing period of each customer on or before the next
January 1. Immediately upon making its determination and fixing the rate, the
governing body shall publish in its minutes the new rate, and it shall notify
by publication in the official city newspaper, every supplier at least 90 days
before such new rate will become effective.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.040) (Ord. 3098, passed - -1994)
CHAPTER 35: CHARTER ORDINANCES
Section
   
35.001   Table of charter ordinances
§ 35.001 TABLE OF CHARTER ORDINANCES.
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1                - -         Repealed by Charter Ords. 17 and 26
2                - -         Repealed by Charter Ord. 14
3                3-29-1965   Relating to off-street parking facilities
4                - -         Repealed by Charter Ord. 14
5                2-6-1967    Relating to private property purchases
6                9-8-1967    Relating to payments upon retirement or discharge
                             from Police or Fire Departments
7                3-1-1968    Relating to contracts, estimates for public
                             improvements
8                - -         -
9                2-26-1971   Relating to City Treasurer duties, depositing city
                             funds and the like
10               - -         Repealed by Ord. 2889
11               7-6-1973    Relating to the leasing of certain land for
                             private camping or cabin sites
12               7-2-1975    Relating to meetings of the governing body
13               7-2-1975    Relating to number of Commissioners and tenure
14               10-20-1975  Repealing Charter Ord. 2 and 4; relating to tax
                             levies
15               10-20-1975  Relating to general land improvements, elections
                             required and bond issues
16               6-3-1977    Relating to tax levies
17               7-20-1979   Relating to general land improvements, elections
                             required and bond issues
18               - -         Repealed by Charter Ord. 23
19               - -         Repealed by Charter Ord. 25
20               9-27-1988   Relating to bonds for land purchase and the like
21               8-20-1991   Relating to qualifications for appointive office
22               - -         Repealed by Charter Ord. 28
23               1-21-1992   Repealed by Charter Ord. 24; repealing Charter
                             Ord. 18; relating to tax levies
24               5-18-1999   Repealing Charter Ord. 23; relating to tax levies
25               - -         Repealed by Charter Ord. 29
26               2-6-2007    Relating to bonds for land purchase and the like
27               2-3-2009    Relating to bonds and street improvements
28               3-2-2010    Relating to the assessment of court costs
29               9-17-2013   Relating to transient guest taxes
30               12-3-2013   Relating to tax levies for libraries
31               8-18-2020   Relating to the disposition of sewer, storm sewer
                             reserve funds
35               3-19-2024   Relating to Library Board members
 
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER SYSTEM
      
51.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
52.   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
      
53.   CONNECTIONS
      
54.   WASTEWATER TREATMENT USER CHARGE SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Creation; authority
   
50.002   Department created; administration; authority
   
50.003   Plumbing Inspector; duties generally
   
50.004   Rates; authority; on file
   
50.005   Rules and regulations promulgation
   
50.006   No services free of charge
   
50.007   Connections; application; permit; cost; specifications; separate
service for each premises; exceptions
   
50.008   Installation; cost; maintenance; meter
   
50.009   Defective fixtures and attachments prohibited; standard design
   
50.010   Plumbers; required for certain acts; installation; reports
   
50.011   Meter requirements; failure to read; billing procedure
   
50.012   Charges and rates; liability
   
50.013   Waste of water; discontinuance of service
   
50.014   Unpaid bills; discontinuance of service; reconnection
   
50.015   Deposit required when
   
50.016   Limits of liability
   
50.017   Emergencies; use limited; service discontinued when
   
50.018   Opening fireplug
   
50.019   Extension of service
   
50.020   Separation of systems and improvements
Emergency Water Regulations
   
50.035   Emergency declaration
   
50.036   Prohibited uses during emergency
Water Conservation
   
50.050   Purpose
   
50.051   Definitions
   
50.052   Emergency declaration
   
50.053   Voluntary conservation measures
   
50.054   Mandatory conservation measures
   
50.055   Emergency water rates
   
50.056   Regulations generally
   
50.057   Violations, disconnections and penalties
   
50.058   Emergency termination
Required Hookups to City Water System
   
50.070   Tapping by city
   
50.071   Property owners; connection required
   
50.072   Prohibited actions
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 CREATION; AUTHORITY.
   It is declared, found and determined to be necessary for the public health,
safety, welfare and benefit of the city and its inhabitants that the waterworks
system and sewage disposal system of the city, as defined in K.S.A. 12-856 et
seq., including all improvements and extensions thereto, be combined, and it is
declared and ordained that from and after the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this section, the waterworks system and the sewage disposal system
of the city, as defined in K.S.A. 12-856 et seq., including all future
improvements and extensions thereto whether to the waterworks system or the
sewage disposal system, shall be combined and shall be known as the “water and
sewage system of the city”. The water and sewage system shall be operated and
financed as provided in K.S.A. 12-856 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.010) (Ord. 2178, passed - -1954)
§ 50.002 DEPARTMENT CREATED; ADMINISTRATION; AUTHORITY.
   There is created for the operation of the water and sewage system of the
city a Water and Sewage Department. The Department shall be administered by the
governing body of the city and the governing body shall appoint such officers
and employees as may be necessary for the proper operation of the water and
sewage system of the city. The Water and Sewage Department shall be
administered and operated in accordance with all of the provisions of K.S.A.
12-856 et seq. and all other applicable statutes.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.020) (Ord. 2178, passed - -1954)
§ 50.003 PLUMBING INSPECTOR; DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The Inspector of Plumbing, under the authority of the Waterworks
Superintendent, is instructed to see that all work inspected by him or her
complies with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.260) (Ord. 2180, passed - -1954)
§ 50.004 RATES; AUTHORITY; ON FILE.
   The governing body of the city finds and determines that under the
provisions of K.S.A. 12-856 et seq., the rates, fees or charges for the use of
and services rendered by the water and sewage system of the city, in order
fully to meet the requirements of said statute, will be as specified in the
document on file in the office of the City Clerk containing current rates and
charges, subject, however, to such changes and revisions as may be made from
time to time by the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.030) (Ord. 3777, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 50.005 RULES AND REGULATIONS PROMULGATION.
   The Water and Sewage Department is authorized to make such bylaws, rules and
regulations as may be deemed proper and necessary for the safe and efficient
management, operation and protection of the waterworks plant and system.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.040) (Ord. 2180, passed - -1954)
§ 50.006 NO SERVICES FREE OF CHARGE.
   No water, fire protection or sewage disposal system service shall be
furnished or rendered free of charge.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.050) (Ord. 2180, passed - -1954)
§ 50.007 CONNECTIONS; APPLICATION; PERMIT; COST; SPECIFICATIONS; SEPARATE
SERVICE FOR EACH PREMISES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Application; permit. Persons wishing to connect with the water mains
shall make written application at the water office, on a blank provided for the
purpose, upon the filing of which a permit will be issued authorizing any
licensed plumber to do the work required.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.060)
   (B)   Application cost. Application for water and sewage disposal system
service, or either, to premises never before connected with the city’s water
and sewage system shall be made to the city’s Water and Sewage Department by
the owner or occupant of the property to be served. A sewer connection permit
shall be procured from the city’s Plumbing Inspector. The cost of such service
connections for consumers shall be paid at the time of application. The Water
and Sewage Department of the city shall furnish up to 60 feet of water main
line, including a street crossing, and any additional water line shall be
furnished by the consumer. The costs of all connections with the sewage
disposal system of the city shall be borne by the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.070)
   (C)   Specifications. All connections to the mains shall be made through one
or more brass corporation cocks inserted in the main and connected to the
service line by lead goosenecks. A stopcock, in an iron box of at least three-
inch diameter, shall be located on the service pipe as nearly as practicable on
the property line of the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.080)
   (D)    Separate service for each premises; exceptions. Each and every
premises shall have its separate and distinct service connection and in no
case, except as provided in this section, shall more than one premises be
furnished with water from one such connection; provided, however, that, where
conditions make this impossible or inadvisable in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Waterworks, special permission may be granted for the use of
one connection for more than one service. When such permission is granted, each
branch service must have its own curb stop and meter installed so that each
service can be metered and controlled separately; provided, however, that, for
water sold to rural water districts for distribution in their own lines, such
water shall be measured by a master meter.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.090)
(Ord. 2180, passed - -1954; Ord. 2362, passed - -)
§ 50.008 INSTALLATION; COST; MAINTENANCE; METER.
   The Water and Sewage Department will install water services from the
corporation cock connecting with the main to the curb stop and box at a cost to
the consumer based on the actual cost of such installation. The Water and
Sewage Department will maintain all present and future five-eighths-inch
service lines from the main to the curb and box. Larger service line
maintenance will be charged to the consumer based on the actual difference in
cost above the five-eighths-inch line. The consumer must maintain in good
condition all piping and attachments, including hydrants and other fixtures,
from the curb stop and box on, and shall be responsible for any leakage or loss
of water therefrom. The Water and Sewage Department shall furnish to the
consumer, at actual cost, all necessary meters for five- eighths-inch lines and
keep them in repair. Meters larger than five-eighths inch shall be furnished
and kept in repair by the Water and Sewage Department at actual cost. The
consumer shall be charged for repairs on all meters resulting from willful
negligence or carelessness. The Water and Sewage Department will not approve or
give water service, except through lead, copper or galvanized steel pipe
services, and all service lines must be laid sufficiently deep to give 30-inch
cover, unless special permission is given by an officer of the Water and Sewage
Department.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.100) (Ord. 2180, passed - -1954) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.009 DEFECTIVE FIXTURES AND ATTACHMENTS PROHIBITED; STANDARD DESIGN.
   No fixtures or attachments shall be installed on any service which are
defective or liable to become so, thus causing excessive use or waste of water.
All hydrants, toilets or other attachments shall be of standard and reliable
design.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.110) (Ord. 2180, passed - -1954) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.010 PLUMBERS; REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN ACTS; INSTALLATION; REPORTS.
   (A)   No person, except a licensed plumber, shall dig up or molest any main,
service pipe, curb box or valve, or turn water on or off at either corporation
cock or curb box, or have in his or her possession any key designed for such
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.120)
   (B)   All plumbers shall notify the Water and Sewage Department of all
piping and connections installed and shall make a written report of the
measurements of all corporation cocks and curb cocks within three days after
their installation.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.130)
(Ord. 2180, passed - -1954) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.011 METER REQUIREMENTS; FAILURE TO READ; BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   All water sold and consumed shall be measured through meters of
standard make, which shall be tested and sealed by the Water Department before
being installed on the service. No meter shall be taken out of any service
without permission of the Department, and if taken out for repairs, shall be
tested and sealed before being reinstalled.
      (2)   Water meters shall be installed in service in six-inch V.C.O. tile,
and must be not less than two inches above grade of ground. Meters must not be
covered with building, sidewalk or driveway, and no shrubbery or flowers may be
planted around meter tile. When a meter or meter tile is broken, it will be
repaired at the property owner’s expense.
      (3)   Meters must be kept uncovered so they may be read by the meter
reader at any time.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.140)
   (B)   All water meters shall be read and bills for water and/or sewage
disposal system service shall be rendered monthly. All bills shall be due and
payable on the date shown on said bill and shall be paid during regular
business hours at the office of the city’s Water and Sewage Department, or at
such other place as may be designated by the governing body of the city. Should
any bill remain unpaid after the due date shown on the bill, an additional
charge of 10% shall be added thereto. If any bill for water and/or sewage
disposal system service remains unpaid ten days after the due date, water
service to such customer shall be discontinued and shall not be reconnected
until all past-due bills for water and/or sewage disposal system services are
paid in full with a reconnection fee of $50 for each meter. It shall be the
duty of the city’s representative in charge of collection of water and sewage
disposal rates to notify the Director of Public Works of any delinquencies
under this section, and the Director of Public Works shall proceed to
immediately disconnect the water service to any customer found to be in
arrears.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.150)
   (C)   When, by reason of any defect in the meter or failure to read the
meter, the bill cannot be arrived at accurately, the Department may make the
bill an average of the preceding bills, covering a period not to exceed one
year.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.180)
(Ord. 2180, passed - -1954; Ord. 2573, passed - -1975; Ord. 2609, passed - -
1976; Ord. 3079, passed - -1993; Ord. 3403, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.012 CHARGES AND RATES; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Sewer charges; based on water meter.
      (1)   When, under the provisions of this subchapter, the amount of any
sewage disposal system charge is measured by the amount of water used upon any
premises furnished with sewage disposal system service by the water and sewage
system of the city, the quantity of water so used upon the premises shall be
measured by the water meter or meters serving the premises. If any occupant or
owner of any premises connected with the sewage disposal system of the city
obtains water from a source other than the city’s water and sewage system,
then, if the premises served and the use thereof come within the provisions and
meet the conditions specified in division (A)(2) below, the sewage disposal
system service charge to be paid by the occupant or owner shall be the sum of
$1.25 per month. If any occupant or owner of any premises connected with the
sewage disposal system of the city obtains water from a source other than the
city’s water and sewage system, and if the premises served and the use thereof
do not come within the provisions and meet the conditions specified in division
(A)(2) below, then such occupant or owner shall, at his or her expense, install
and maintain on the premises a water meter or meters satisfactory to the
Superintendent of the Water and Sewage System of the city, or other
representative of the city, which meter shall measure all water received on the
premises from all sources, and, in such case, the sewage disposal system rate
to be charged such customer shall be based upon the aggregate quantity of water
received on the premises, as measured by the meter or meters. The
Superintendent of the Water and Sewage System of the city, or any
representative of the city, shall have access to the premises of such customer
at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspecting and testing the water
meter or meters and reading the records thereof.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.160)
      (2)   If any user of water other than the occupant of a single-family
residence uses more than 7,000 cubic feet of water in any month for commercial
or industrial purposes, and if, as established by a separate meter installed
and maintained by such user or by other records kept and maintained by such
user and open for inspection by the city’s representatives, more than one-half
of the water so used by the customer was not discharged into the sewage
disposal system of the city, then the sewage charge made to such customer for
the use and services of the sewage disposal system of the city shall be based
on the amount of water furnished the customer during the month less the amount
of water which was not discharged into the sewage disposal system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.170)
   (B)   All property owners and/or their agents shall be and are made liable
for any and all fees contracted by themselves, their agents and employees for
the installation and cost of meters, and for all expenses incident to the
upkeep of meters, locks, stop boxes and supply pipes to the premises at said
locations.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.200)
(Ord. 2180, passed - -1954; Ord. 3364, passed 7-7-2009)
§ 50.013 WASTE OF WATER; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Water Utility Department, upon receipt of satisfactory proof that
an adjustment is appropriate because of broken service lines, broken pipes or
water appliance leaks, will make water leak adjustment. Proof of repair of a
leak includes a copy of plumber’s invoice, invoice for repair parts and the
like. An adjustment may be given a renter who moves because of leaks which
continue due to landlord negligence. When any property owner or consumer fails
to make any necessary repairs after being duly notified, the Water Department
is authorized to discontinue the service to the property until such time as the
repairs are made.
   (B)   Water billings will be adjusted for 75% of the water loss (based on
the last three months’ average) for single-family, residential users. Water
billings will be adjusted for 50% or the water loss (based on the last three
months’ average) for all other users.
   (C)   Figuring the customer’s last three months’ average bill, deducting
that average bill from the total bill, and then adjusting off the appropriate
percentage of the resulting difference will determine the leak adjustment
amount. The total amended bill will be equal to the average bill, plus the
customer’s portion of the leak as set out in division (B) above.
   (D)   Water leak adjustments will be considered only for those incidents
which cause water consumption to double an average bill’s usage, with no more
than two adjustments allowed any customer account within a 12-month period.
   (E)   Corresponding sewer charges will be adjusted based upon the water leak
adjustment.
   (F)   No adjustments will be made for wholesale customers, including rural
water districts.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.190) (Ord. 2180, passed - -1954; Ord. 3172, passed - -
1999) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.014 UNPAID BILLS; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; RECONNECTION.
   In the event there are any unpaid bills against the property of any consumer
or property owner, either for water, merchandise, repairs to or installation of
meters, or locks, service may be discontinued without notice and a charge of
$50 in addition to the bill may be collected before the water service is turned
on.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.210) (Ord. 2180, passed - -1954; Ord. 3364, passed 7-7-
2009)
§ 50.015 DEPOSIT REQUIRED WHEN.
   The Water and Sewage Department may require a deposit in advance equal to an
average three months’ bill when for any reason they consider it necessary on
any property.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.220) (Ord. 2180, passed - -1954)
§ 50.016 LIMITS OF LIABILITY.
   No claim shall rest against the city or the Waterworks Department by reason
of any damage sustained from the freezing or bursting of any main, service
pipe, stopcock, valve or hydrant, or from accidental failure to supply water.
The city reserves the right to shut off the water in the mains without notice
for the purpose of making repairs or extensions, and no claim for damage
therefrom shall be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.230) (Ord. 2180, passed - -1954)
§ 50.017 EMERGENCIES; USE LIMITED; SERVICE DISCONTINUED WHEN.
   In case of emergencies, the waste or excessive use of water may be ordered
stopped by the Water and Sewage Department, and in case of failure to comply
with the order, service may be discontinued at such place.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.240) (Ord. 2180, passed - -1954)
§ 50.018 OPENING FIREPLUG.
   No person shall use any monkey wrench or stillson on a fireplug. No one,
except authorized agents of the Fire Department or Water and Sewage Department,
shall open any fireplug for any reason, or have in his or her possession any
plug wrench or key designed for such purpose, or any hose with a special
connection fitting such plug.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.250) (Ord. 2180, passed - -1954) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.019 EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   Whenever the owner or occupant of any lot, lots or parcels of ground lying
within the city, but outside of any sewer district shall make application, in
writing, to the city for sewer service for such lot, lots or parcels of ground,
definitely describing the lot, lots or parcels of ground for which service is
desired and asking for permission to attach a sewer connection to a sewer main
serving an existing sewer district, the Board of Commissioners of the city
shall consider the application at the first regular meeting after the
application is filed with the City Clerk and, if the Board of Commissioners
decides that the existing sewer main serving an existing sewer district is
sufficient to handle the additional load factor placed upon it by the addition
of the lot, lots or parcels of land to be attached thereto, it may allow the
attachment to be made and an assessment will be levied against the property to
be attached, in accordance with the assessment formerly used for the lots or
parcels of land under the original sewer district. The owner or occupant of the
lot, lots or parcels of land to be attached shall have ten days after the
finding of the Board of Commissioners of the fee to be charged for the
attachment in which to file a protest against the amount of said fee. The
protest shall be heard by the Board of Commissioners and the decision of the
Board of Commissioners shall be final. There shall be assessed an attachment
charge against the lot, lots or parcels of land as a condition of attachment to
the sewer main.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.270) (Ord. 2629, passed - -1977)
§ 50.020 SEPARATION OF WATERWORKS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   There is found, determined and declared to be necessary for the public
health, safety, welfare and benefit of the city and its inhabitants that the
existing waterworks of said city and the existing sewage system of said city,
and all future improvements and extensions thereto, be henceforth operated and
maintained as a separate waterworks and a separate sewage system.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.275)
   (B)   From and after the passage of the ordinance codified in this section,
the existing waterworks of the city and the existing sewage system of the city,
and all future improvements and extensions thereto, whether to the waterworks
or to the sewage system or to both, shall be and the same are separate, and it
is declared that said waterworks and the sewage system, and all future
improvements and extensions thereto as aforesaid, shall henceforth be separate
and shall be maintained as a separate waterworks and a separate sewage system,
and the rates, fees and charges collected by the city from the operation of its
waterworks and its sewage system shall be kept separate and apart.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.276)
(Ord. 2692, passed - -1978)
EMERGENCY WATER REGULATIONS
§ 50.035 EMERGENCY DECLARATION.
   Whenever the governing body of the city shall deem that an emergency exists
by reason of a shortage of water supply and in order to properly protect and to
fully utilize the supply of water for essential uses, such as household
consumption, maintenance of health and sanitation facilities and the operation
of essential businesses, the governing body shall have power to declare an
emergency to exist and to prohibit, during the period of the emergency, the use
of water for non-essential uses and to promulgate and enforce conservation
measures limiting the permissible use of water from the city water supply for
essential cases only. Such emergency shall be deemed to continue until it is
declared by the governing body to be ended.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.010) (Ord. 2786, passed - -1981)
§ 50.036 PROHIBITED USES DURING EMERGENCY.
   (A)   For the purposes mentioned in this subchapter, the governing body may
limit, as it deems necessary, or may prohibit any of the following uses of
water from the city water supply:
      (1)   The watering of shrubbery, trees or grass through the use of a hose
or otherwise; provided that, nurseries shall be allowed to use a minimum amount
of water to keep their present stock of shrubbery and trees alive;
      (2)   The washing of automobiles, trucks or any other type of mobile
equipment;
      (3)   The washing of sidewalks, porches, filling station aprons or
floors, and interiors of buildings or trucks; provided further, the Fire Chief
of the city may permit the reasonable use of water for the washing of filling
station aprons and floors essential to public safety and the prevention of fire
hazards;
      (4)   The wasting of water through defective plumbing, which shall mean
the knowing permission for defective plumbing to remain out of repair, such as
leaking water closets, service leaks or underground leaks, defective faucets
and taps;
      (5)   Air-conditioning or evaporative cooling systems designed and used
to reduce room temperature for the comfort of persons using said room; and
      (6)   The use of water in fountains, ornamental or otherwise, wading
pools, fish ponds, golf courses, miniature golf courses or any recreational
grounds and private swimming pools.
   (B)   The governing body may make such other limitations, restrictions or
prohibitions upon the use of such water as it deems necessary to meet the
exigencies of the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.020) (Ord. 2786, passed - -1981) Penalty, see §
50.999
WATER CONSERVATION
§ 50.050 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the declaration of a water
supply emergency and the implementation of voluntary and mandatory water
conservation measures throughout the city in the event such an emergency is
declared.
(Prior Code, § 13.18.010) (Ord. 3066, passed - -1993)
§ 50.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CLASSES OF WATER USES.
      (1)   CLASS 1. Water used for outdoor watering, either public or private,
for gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields,
swimming pools or other recreational area; or the washing of motor vehicles,
boats, trailers, or the exterior of any building or structure.
      (2)   CLASS 2. Water used for any commercial or industrial, including
agricultural, purposes, except water actually necessary to maintain the health
and personal hygiene of bona fide employees while such employees are engaged in
the performance of their duties at their place of employment.
      (3)   CLASS 3. Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in
either Classes 1 or 2.
      (4)   CLASS 4. Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives
of domestic pets and to maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the city’s
water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in
the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain; or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   WATER. Water available to the city for treatment by virtue of its water
rights or any treated water introduced by the city into its water distribution
system, including water offered for sale at any coin- operated site.
(Prior Code, § 13.18.020) (Ord. 3066, passed - -1993)
§ 50.052 EMERGENCY DECLARATION.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that an emergency exists by
reason of a shortage of water supply needed for essential uses, it shall be
empowered to declare, by resolution, that a water supply emergency exists and
that it will encourage voluntary water conservation or impose mandatory
restrictions on water use during the period of the emergency. Such an emergency
shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the governing
body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water
supply emergency shall be effective upon their publication in the official city
newspaper.
(Prior Code, § 13.18.030) (Ord. 3066, passed - -1993)
§ 50.053 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
50.052 of this chapter, the Mayor or City Manager is authorized to call on all
water consumers to employ voluntary water conservation measures to limit or
eliminate non-essential water uses including, but without limitations, on the
following uses:
   (A)   Sprinkling of water on lawns, shrubs or trees (including golf
courses);
   (B)   Washing of automobiles;
   (C)   Use of water in swimming pools, fountains and evaporative air
conditioning systems; and
   (D)   Waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 13.18.040) (Ord. 3066, passed - -1993)
§ 50.054 MANDATORY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
50.052 of this chapter, the Mayor or City Manager is also authorized to
implement certain mandatory water conservation measures, including, but not
limited to, the following:
   (A)   Suspension of new connections to the city’s water distribution system,
except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to agreements
entered into by the city prior to the effective date of the declaration of the
emergency;
   (B)   Restrictions on the uses of water in one or more classes of water use,
wholly or in part;
   (C)   Restrictions on the sales of water at coin-operated facilities or
sites;
   (D)   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions; and
   (E)   Complete or partial bans on the waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 13.18.050) (Ord. 3066, passed - -1993)
§ 50.055 EMERGENCY WATER RATES.
   (A)   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
50.052 of this chapter, the governing body shall have the power to adopt
emergency water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies.
   (B)   Such emergency rates may provide for, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of use (increasing
block rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate); or
      (3)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess
demand surcharge).
(Prior Code, § 13.18.060) (Ord. 3066, passed - -1993)
§ 50.056 REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   During the effective period of any water supply emergency as provided
for in §
50.052 of this chapter, the Mayor or City Manager is empowered to promulgate
such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
subchapter, any water supply emergency resolution, or emergency water rate
ordinance.
   (B)   Such regulations shall be subject to the approval of the governing
body at its next regular or special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 13.18.070) (Ord. 3066, passed - -1993)
§ 50.057 VIOLATIONS, DISCONNECTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   (1)   If the city official or officials charged with implementation
and enforcement of this subchapter or a water supply emergency resolution learn
of any violation of any water use restrictions imposed pursuant to §§
50.054 and
50.056 of this chapter, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed to
the property where the violation occurred and the customer of record and any
other person known to the city who is responsible for the violation or its
correction shall be provided with either actual or mailed notice.
      (2)   Said notice shall describe the violation and order that it be
corrected, cured or abated immediately or within such specified time as the
city determines is reasonable under the circumstances.
   (B)   If the order is not complied with, the city may terminate water
service to the customer subject to the following procedure.
      (1)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the city governing body or
a city official designated as a hearing officer by the governing body.
      (2)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water
service terminated pursuant to division (A) above. In the event of subsequent
violations, the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second violation and
$300 for any additional violations.
(Prior Code, § 13.18.080) (Ord. 3066, passed - -1993) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.058 EMERGENCY TERMINATION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall limit the ability of any properly
authorized city official from terminating the supply of water to any or all
customers upon the determination of such city official that emergency
termination of water service is required to protect the health and safety of
the public.
(Prior Code, § 13.18.090) (Ord. 3066, passed - -1993)
REQUIRED HOOKUPS TO CITY WATER SYSTEM
§ 50.070 TAPPING BY CITY.
   The city’s water mains and pipes of the city shall be tapped only by its
officers or employees. The city, by its officers or employees, shall install
all service pipes from the mains to the property line, meters and curb cocks,
and shall make all excavations in the public streets which shall be necessary
in the premises. The cost of making such connections, as established by this
subchapter, shall be paid by the applicant.
(Ord. 3747, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 50.071 PROPERTY OWNERS; CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located near public water mains, is hereby required at his
or her own expense to make connection to such public water main. Prior to
making connection, an application must be made to the City Clerk upon the form
established by and available from the city. The fee designated for such
services by the city shall accompany the application. The City Clerk shall file
applications with the City Treasurer on the first day of each month and pay to
the City Treasurer all money collected for such application at that time.
   (B)   All users of water shall install attachments and appurtenances
necessary to carry the water from the property line at their own expense. All
such attachments and appurtenances shall be kept in good repair, be open to
inspection by the city and be of sufficient strength to withstand a hydrostatic
pressure of 200 pounds per square inch.
   (C)   Water shall not be turned on to any house, building or private service
line, except by authorized employees of said city. Plumbers are prohibited from
turning water on for service pipes, except in accordance with this subchapter.
   (D)   Any inspector or authorized agent of the city shall have access at all
reasonable hours to the premises supplied with water for the purposes of making
any desired examination of the plumbing or water fixtures installed or anything
that is in connection with the use of water.
   (E)   The city reserves the right at all times to shut off water mains for
the purpose of making repairs, extensions and any other purposes it deems
necessary.
   (F)   The city will not be liable for any damage by reason of collapse or
explosion of any plumbing, fixtures or other water appliance caused by the
shutting off of the water supply.
   (G)   (1)   Water users shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and shall
keep sprinklers, hydrants, faucets and all apparatus, including the service
line leading from the property to the meter, in good condition at their own
expense.
      (2)   No allowances shall be made for water used or lost through leaks,
carelessness, neglect or otherwise after the same has passed through the meter.
      (3)   Every customer shall, however, have the right to appeal to the city
from water bills or meter readings considered excessive.
(Ord. 3747, passed 7-11-2023) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.072 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   The following actions are specifically prohibited by this subchapter.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or take, or to authorize
the use or taking of, water from any part of the city’s water works system
without a license or permit authorized by the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person or owner to take water from the city
water system to use for another property or residence outside the city limits.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person or owner to supply water to other
persons, families other entities, except under emergencies circumstances for a
very limited time.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, other than
the authorized employees or officers of the city, to tap any of the water mains
of the city.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, unless
authorized by the city in writing, to install, alter or change the installation
of any water connections, meters, service pipes, curb cocks between the mains
and the property line users of the city water unless such person, firm or
corporation is employed by the city.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, unless
authorized by the city in wilting, to perform any work upon the pipes or
appurtenances of the city’s waterworks system beyond a private properly line
unless such person, firm or corporation is employed by the city.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, unless
authorized by the city in writing, to open or hitch to, dig out, cover up or
remove any fireplug, or hydrant stop cock, valve, valve box or other fixture
appertaining to the water works system unless such person, firm or corporation
is employed by the city.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person, film or corporation, other than
duly authorized city officials or employees, to turn water on or off at the
water meter or curb cock shut off, with a key or in any other manner.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, other than
duly authorized city officials or employees, to remove, handle or otherwise
molest or disturb any meter, meter lid, cutoff or any other appurtenances to
the water system of the city.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to break the
seal of any meter, to alter the register or mechanism of any meter or take any
outlet or connection in any manner so that water supplied by the city may be
used or wasted without being metered.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to establish
or permit to be established or maintain or permit to be maintained, any cross-
connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water supply, other than
the regular water supply of the city, may enter the supply and distributing
system of the city without written approval of the city and the state’s
Department of Health and Environment.
(Ord. 3747, passed 7-11-2023) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person or persons to tamper with any
water main, fire main, water meter or sewer line, or to make any connection to
the water and sewage system of the city without written permission from the
city, or to reconnect service when it has been discontinued for non-payment of
a bill for service, until such bill has been paid in full, including the
reconnection fee. Upon conviction of violation of any of the provisions of §§
50.001 through
50.020 of this chapter, there shall be imposed a penalty as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances, together with the cost of prosecution
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.280)
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §§
50.035 and
50.036 of this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Each day of operation in violation of the
provisions of §§
50.035 or
50.036 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.030)
   (D)   Violation of §§
50.050 through
50.058 of this chapter shall be a municipal offense and may be prosecuted in
the Municipal Court. Any person found guilty of violating §§
50.050 through 50.0058 of this chapter shall be guilty of a municipal offense.
Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty for an
initial violation shall be a mandatory fine of $100. In addition, such customer
may be required by the court to serve a term of confinement not to exceed 30
days. The penalty for a second or subsequent conviction shall be a mandatory
fine of $200. In addition, such customer shall serve a term of confinement not
to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 13.18.080)
   (E)   Anyone convicted of violating §§
50.070 through
50.072 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable under this
code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2180, passed - -1954; Ord. 2786, passed - -1981; Ord. 3066, passed - -
1993; Ord. 3747, passed 7-11-2023)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Deposit of objectionable waste unlawful
   
51.003   Discharge to natural outlet unlawful when
   
51.004   Private disposal systems and facilities
   
51.005   Toilet installation
   
51.006   Connection to private sewage disposal required when
   
51.007   Conflicting provisions
   
51.008   Public sewers; connection; disturbance
   
51.009   Building sewers; permit; installation; cost; use permitted when
   
51.010   Connections; prohibited; specifications
   
51.011   Inspections; notice
   
51.012   Excavations
   
51.013   Discharges; prohibited; substances
   
51.014   Interceptors
   
51.015   Owner maintenance required
   
51.016   Manholes
   
51.017   Sampling
   
51.018   Special arrangements
   
51.019   Tampering prohibited; immediate arrest
 
   
51.999   Penalty
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation or organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning two feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.28 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings and industrial establishments together with such ground, surface and
storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN. (Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.) A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Water and Sewer Department of the city
or the authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.290) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988)
§ 51.002 DEPOSIT OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in
any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of such city, any human excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.300) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003 DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLET UNLAWFUL WHEN.
   It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted waters,
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.310) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Construction of private disposal facility unlawful when. Except as
hereinafter provided, it is unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.320)
   (B)   Permit application. Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the City Clerk or the Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant supplement with
duplicate plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary
by the City Clerk or the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $10
shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.350)
   (C)   Permit; inspection. A permit for a private sewage disposal system
shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the City Clerk or the Superintendent when the work is ready
for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within 72 hours of the receipt of notice by the City
Clerk or the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.360)
   (D)   Restrictions. The type, capacities, location and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s
Department of Health and Environment. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than 43,560 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.370)
   (E)   To be abandoned when. At such time as a public sewer becomes available
to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in
division (D) above, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.380)
   (F)   Operation. The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
city.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.390)
(Ord. 2968, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 TOILET INSTALLATION.
   The owner of all houses, building or properties used for human employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any
street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is required, at his or
her expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official publication;
provided that, said public sewer is within 200 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.330) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006 CONNECTION TO PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL REQUIRED WHEN.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
51.005 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section through §
51.008(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.340) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   No statement contained in §§
51.006 through
51.008(A) of this chapter shall be construed to interfere with any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer of the county.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.400) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988)
§ 51.008 PUBLIC SEWERS; CONNECTION; DISTURBANCE.
   (A)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.410)
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the City Clerk or the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.420)
(Ord. 2968, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.009 BUILDING SEWERS; PERMIT; INSTALLATION; COST; USE PERMITTED WHEN.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing commercial/industrial
wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented with duplicated plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the City Clerk or the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $10 for a residential sewer
permit and $20 for a building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the
time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.430)
   (B)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.440)
   (C)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.450)
   (D)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.460)
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.470)
   (F)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.480)
(Ord. 2968, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.010 CONNECTIONS; PROHIBITED; SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall make connection of sump pumps, roof downspouts,
interior and exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.490)
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
City Clerk or the Superintendent before installation.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.500)
(Ord. 2968, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.011 INSPECTIONS; NOTICE.
   (A)   City Clerk; Superintendent; to be notified for inspection. The
applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City Clerk or the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or a designated representative.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.510)
   (B)   Inspections generally. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.640)
   (C)   Safety rules. While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in division (B) above, the Superintendent or duly
authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by city employees and against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.016 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.650)
   (D)   Right of entry and subsequent work. The Superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds
a duty negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.660)
(Ord. 2968, passed - -1988)
§ 51.012 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, alleys and other public property disturbed by such
installations shall be replaced at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.520) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.013 DISCHARGES; PROHIBITED; SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Discharge to sanitary sewer. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, including interior and exterior foundation drains, to any
sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.530)
   (B)   Discharge to combined sewers, storm sewers or natural outlet.
      (1)   Storm water and all other surface runoff drainage shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to
a natural storm water outlet approved by the city.
      (2)   All industrial discharges including wastewater, cooling water and
process water shall be discharged to the sanitary sewer system, unless the
discharge is permitted by the state’s Department of Health and Environment
under authority of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES).
(Prior Code, § 13.04.540)
   (C)   Prohibited discharges; public sewers. No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any
public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
or causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.550)
   (D)   Substances not to be discharged; Superintendent consideration of
acceptability. No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears
likely, in the opinion of the Superintendent, that such wastes, can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150°F and 65°C;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste-producing or
odor-producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant toad the sewage treatment works;
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined in this chapter;
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and/or
      (11)   Any waters or wastes having a five-day BOD greater than 300 parts
per million by weight, or containing more than 300 parts per million by weight
or suspended solids or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the
average sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review of the
Superintendent. Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the
owner shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may
be necessary to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
by weight or reduce the suspended solids to 300 parts per million by weight or
control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans,
specifications and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.560)
   (E)   Discharge of substances in division (D) above; Superintendent powers.
      (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which, in the
judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise create a
hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
die wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
51.018 of this chapter.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.570)
(Ord. 2968, passed - -1988; Ord. 3106, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.014 INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.580) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.015 OWNER MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   Where preliminary treatment for flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.590) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988)
§ 51.016 MANHOLES.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.600) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 SAMPLING.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater”, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(Prior Code, § 13.04.610) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988)
§ 51.018 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.620) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988)
§ 51.019 TAMPERING PROHIBITED; IMMEDIATE ARREST.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.630) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
51.019 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each
violation. Each 24-hour period in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.670) (Ord. 2968, passed - -1988)
CHAPTER 52: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Sewer connection required
   
52.003   Permit; connection fee
   
52.004   Application
   
52.005   Costs
   
52.006   Sewer connection
   
52.007   Sewer for each building
   
52.008   Specifications
   
52.009   Excavations; damages
   
52.010   Failure to connect
   
52.011   Privy unlawful
   
52.012   Disposal of sewage
   
52.013   Damage to sewers
   
52.014   Natural outlets
   
52.015   Standards generally
   
52.016   Old building sewers
   
52.017   Mud and grease traps
   
52.018   Roof, foundation drains
   
52.019   Exception
   
52.020   Prohibited discharges
   
52.021   Bills; delinquent accounts
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the innerface of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWERS. Sewers receiving both surface runoff and sewage. These are
not permitted.
   INDIVIDUAL DOMESTIC. Any single-family residence, commercial business,
office institution, school, church or public entity having an individual direct
or indirect connection to the wastewater facilities of the city and on
individual city or private water service meter, or connection to any such water
service.
   INDUSTRIAL. Any industrial business engaged in the manufacturing or
processing of one or more products, and in which wastewaters are produced from
such manufacturing or processing and said wastewaters are discharged directly
or indirectly to the wastewater facilities of the city.
   MULTI-DOMESTIC. Any multi-family residence, apartment or mobile home and any
commercial business, office, institution, school, church or public entity
having a direct or indirect connection to the wastewater facilities of the city
and not having an individual water service meter but is served with city or
private metered water by the owner of the property on which it is located.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is not controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
building, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the city or his or her authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
   USER. Any person including an institution, governmental agency or political
subdivision producing wastewater requiring processing and treatment to remove
pollutants and having premises connected to the wastewater facilities.
   WASTEWATER. Sewage, the combination of liquids and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial and industrial buildings, institutions, governmental
agencies, together with any ground, surface or storm water that may be present.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.010) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000)
§ 52.002 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, building or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required
at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date or official
notice to do so; provided that, said public sewer is within 200 feet of the
property line.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.020) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000)
§ 52.003 PERMIT; CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   There shall be no fee payable at the time of making application for
the permit.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.030) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 52.004 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to make a connection to the city sewer system
shall apply in writing to the City Clerk who shall forward the application to
the Utility Superintendent.
   (B)   The application shall contain:
      (1)   The legal description of the property to be connected;
      (2)   The and address of fee owner or owners of the property;
      (3)   The kind of property to be connected (residential, commercial or
industrial); and
      (4)   The point of proposed connection to the city sewer line.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.040) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000)
§ 52.005 COSTS.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be paid by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.050) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000)
§ 52.006 SEWER CONNECTION.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at
the “Y” branch if such branch is available at a suitable location. Where no
properly located “Y” branch is available, the connection shall be made in the
manner approved by the Utility Superintendent and at a location designated by
the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.060) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000)
§ 52.007 SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be feasibly constructed
to the rear building. In such case, the building sewer from the front building
may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.070) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 52.008 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be constructed of cast iron pipe, ASTM
specifications A74-42, or approved equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM
specifications C13-44T, or approved equal; or an approved plastic pipe. Any
plastic pipe to be installed on any building sewer shall not be approved by the
city until the owner has furnished descriptive literature and typical sample
section of the plastic pipe proposed for installation, to the city for
inspection and review. All joints on all pipe installed shall be tight and
water-proof. Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of
the water service pipe or city water main shall be constructed of approved cast
iron soil pipe with approved joints. No building sewer shall be installed
within three feet of existing gas lines. If installed in filled or unstable
ground, the building sewer shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe; except
that, non-metallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed
or cradle as approved by the city.
   (B)   The size and slope of the building sewer to be installed shall be
subject to the approval of the City Inspector, but in no event shall the
diameter of the pipe be less than four inches. The slope at which a six-inch
pipe is to be laid shall be not less than one-eighth inch per foot and for
four-inch pipe, not less than one-quarter inch per foot. Any grades for the
pipe, which are proposed for installation at grades less than these specified,
shall be approved by the City Inspector prior to placement.
   (C)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment
insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with approved
curved pipe and fittings, including cleanout fittings.
   (D)   No building sewer shall be laid across a cesspool, septic tank or
vault until the cesspool, septic tank or vault has been well-cleaned and filled
with an approved earth or sand fill, then thoroughly tamped and water settled.
Cast iron pipe may be used across cesspools or septic tanks, if proper bedding
and support for the sewer pipe is acquired.
   (E)   (1)   All joints in the building sewers shall be made water-tight. If
recommended by the city inspector, a water pressure test shall be made on the
completed sewer to insure a compliance with this requirement, requiring that
the building sewer withstand an internal water pressure of five psi, without
leakage.
      (2)   Cast pipe with lead joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or
hemp and filled with molten
lead, Federal Specifications QQ-L-156, not less than one inch deep. Lead shall
be run in one pour and caulked and packed tight No paint, varnish or other
coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material until after the joint has
been tested and approved.
      (3)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe shall be the polyurethane-
compression type joints, approved by the City Inspector.
      (4)   Joints for all plastic pipe used in building sewers shall be the
slip type joints or solvent weld type, approved by the city.
      (5)   Joints between any two different type of pipes shall be made with
lead, asphaltic jointing material or concrete, as approved by the city. All
joints shall be water-tight and constructed to ensure minimum root penetration
and to the satisfaction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.080) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 52.009 EXCAVATIONS; DAMAGES.
   All excavations for buildings sewers shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, curbs
and gutters, sidewalks, parkways and other public property removed or damaged
during the installation of the building sewer shall be repaired or replaced in
a manner acceptable to the city and at the total expense of the owner. It is
further agreed that any parties involved in any excavation or installation work
for sewer installations as above set out, will hold the city harmless from any
and all damages to persons or property resulting from or growing out of any
opening or excavation or any negligent act or from any operation made within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.090) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 52.010 FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   (A)   If any person as defined shall fail to connect any dwelling or
building with the sewer system after being noticed, the city may cause such
building to be connected with the sewer system as authorized by K.S.A. 12-631.
   (B)   The cost and expense, including inspection fees, shall be assessed
against the property. Until such assessments shall have been collected and paid
to the city, the cost of making such connection may be paid from the General
Fund or through issuance of no fund warrants.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.100) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 52.011 PRIVY UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage,
except as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.110) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 52.012 DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or discharge from any source
whatsoever any sewage or human excrement upon any public or private grounds
within the city, or to permit the contents of any privy, vault or septic tank
to be deposited or discharged upon the surface of any grounds. Any unauthorized
or unapproved privy vault, septic tank or other means or places for the
disposal of sewage, excrement and polluted water may be abated as a public
nuisance upon the order of the city’s or county’s Board of Health in accordance
with the laws of the state (K.S.A. 12-1617e; 12-1617g).
(Prior Code, § 13.28.120) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 52.013 DAMAGE TO SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to maliciously, willfully
or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any
sewer, structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the municipal
sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.130) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 52.014 NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.140) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 52.015 STANDARDS GENERALLY.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials, excavation, placing of pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.150) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000)
§ 52.016 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Utility Superintendent, to meet
all requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.160) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000)
§ 52.017 MUD AND GREASE TRAPS.
   All garages, filling stations, milk plants or other commercial or industrial
plants connected to the public sewer shall construct and maintain proper and
sufficient interceptors or traps to prevent the discharge of any sand, mud,
sediment, litter, waste or any substance harmful to the effective operation and
maintenance of the city sewer system, into the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.170) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 52.018 ROOF, FOUNDATION DRAINS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to connect downspouts from any roof area, drains
from any building foundation, paved areas, yards or open courts, or to
discharge liquid wastes from any air conditioning unit or cooling device having
a capacity in excess of one ton per hour or one horsepower into any city
sanitary sewer.
   (B)   All discharges prohibited in division (A) above may be discharged into
the public gutter or storm drains or open drainage ditches; provided, such
discharge does not create a nuisance. No such liquids may be discharged into
any unpaved street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.180) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 52.019 EXCEPTION.
   Discharges from air conditioning units in excess of one ton per hour or one
horsepower may be permitted into a building sewer upon approval of the Utility
Superintendent where there is a such cooling water cannot be recirculated and
that such waste water does not overload the capacity of the sewer or interfere
with the effective operation of the sewage disposal works of the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.190) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000)
§ 52.020 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge any of the following waters or wastes to any
public sewer:
   (A)   Liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (B)   Water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million, by
weight, of fat, oil or grease;
   (C)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
   (D)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (E)   Ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
   (F)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
   (G)   Waters or wastes containing a toxic poisonous substance in sufficient
quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of
the sewage treatment plant;
   (H)   Water or wastes continuing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage treatment plant; and
   (I)   Noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.200) (Ord. 3191, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 52.021 BILLS; DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   (1)   Bills shall be rendered monthly and shall be collected as a
utility bill.
      (2)   Any person at the time of beginning or terminating service who
receives service for a period of less than 17 consecutive days shall be billed
at no less than one-half of the regular minimum monthly rate. For service of 17
consecutive days or more, the charge shall be not less than full regular
minimum monthly rate.
      (3)   All bills must be paid within ten days after they are received or
sewer service will be terminated.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.210)
   (B)   (1)   In the event any person, except the United States and the state
or any political subdivision thereof, shall fail to pay the user charges when
due, sewer service shall be terminated.
      (2)   In addition to terminating sewer service, the governing body may
elect to assess such delinquent charges as a lien upon the real estate serviced
and the City Clerk shall certify such delinquent charges to the County Clerk to
be placed on the tax roll and collected in like manner as other taxes are
collected.
      (3)   Any costs for installing cut-off valves in order to terminate
service shall be assessed as a sewer cost and will be collected by direct
payment or assessed as delinquent charges as in division (B)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 13.28.220)
(Ord. 3191, passed - -2000)
CHAPTER 53: CONNECTIONS
Section
Cross-Connection Control and Backflow Prevention
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Program; purpose and application
   
53.003   State statutes and regulations
   
53.004   Prohibited connection
   
53.005   Where protection required
   
53.006   Survey and investigations
   
53.007   Incorporation by reference
   
53.008   Devices; installation
   
53.009   Inspection and maintenance
Private Infiltration and Inflow Connections
   
53.020   Definitions
   
53.021   Prohibited connections
   
53.022   Disconnect order
   
53.023   Service termination
   
53.024   Service reconnection
   
53.025   Nuisance abatement
   
53.026   Inspection; access and entry
   
53.027   Financial assistance
   
53.028   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
53.999   Penalty
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle, and shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the flood level rim of the vessel, but in no case
less than one inch.
   APPROVED TESTER. A person qualified to make inspections, to test and repair
backflow prevention/cross-connection control devices and who is approved by the
city.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Any person designated by the city to administer
this cross- connection control regulation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source or system, other than the city,
that may be available in the building or premises. This does not include other
KDHE permitted public water supply systems.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases, used water or substances into the distribution system of a
public water supply system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into the public water supply system.
   CONSUMER. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or agency or his,
her, their or its authorized agent receiving water from the city.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. All service pipes, all distribution piping and all
appurtenances beyond the service meter of the public water system.
   CONTAMINATION. An introduction of any sewage, process fluids, chemicals,
wastes or any other substance that would be objectionable. CONTAMINATION may be
a threat to life or health, or may cause an esthetic deterioration, color,
taste or odor.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems; one of which contains potable water of the
public water supply system, and the second, water of unknown or questionable
safety, or steam, gases, chemicals or substances whereby there may be backflow
from the second system to the public water supply system. No physical CROSS-
CONNECTION shall be permitted between a public water supply system and an
auxiliary water supply system.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon anyone using the water.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in the public water supply
system that could create or may create a danger to the health and well-being of
anyone using the water or allow contamination of the water.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. The public water system and the consumers’ water
systems.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. The water supply source, distribution system and
appurtenances to the service meter operated as a public utility that supplies
potable water to the consumers’ water systems.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of the service line from the public
water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the
SERVICE CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.100) (Ord. 3520, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 53.002 PROGRAM; PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination due to
backflow or backsiphonage;
      (2)   To prohibit, eliminate, contain, isolate or control cross-
connections between the public water supply system and non-potable water
systems, plumbing fixtures and industrial process systems or other systems
which introduce or may introduce contaminants into the public water system or
the consumer’s water system; and
      (3)   To provide policy for the maintenance of a continuing program of
cross-connection control which will prevent the contamination of the public
water supply system.
   (B)   Application. This subchapter shall apply to all consumer’s water
systems. It is the intent of the city or its authorized representative to
reasonably interpret the ordinance and recognize the varying degrees of hazard
and to apply the principle that the degree of protection shall be commensurate
with the degree of hazard. The city may also require cross-connection control
devices at the service connections of other KDHE permitted public water supply
systems served by the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.010) (Ord. 3520, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 53.003 STATE STATUTES AND REGULATIONS.
   Applicable state statutes and regulations are hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated herein.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.110) (Ord. 3520, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 53.004 PROHIBITED CONNECTION.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public water supply
system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-connections are abated
or controlled to the satisfaction of the city or its authorized representative.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public water supply system.
   (C)   If, in the judgment of the city or its authorized representative,
cross-connection protection is required through either piping modification or
installation of an approved backflow prevention device, due notice shall be
given to the consumer. The consumers shall immediately comply by providing the
required protection at their expense. Failure or refusal or inability on the
part of the consumer to provide such protection shall constitute grounds for
the discontinuation of water service to the premises until such protection has
been provided.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.020) (Ord. 3520, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 53.004 WHERE PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where, in the
judgment of the city or its authorized representative or the KDHE, actual or
potential cross-connections exist. The type and degree of protection required
shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard and/or type of contamination
that may enter the public water supply system.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgment of the city or its authorized representative or
the KDHE, the nature and extent of activities on the premises, or the materials
used in connection with the activities, or materials stored on the premises,
would present a health hazard or contamination of the public water supply
system from a cross-connection. This includes, but is not limited to, the
following situations:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is acceptable to the city or its authorized representative
and the KDHE;
      (2)   Premises having internal plumbing arrangements, which make it
impractical to ascertain whether or not, cross-connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross-connections do not exist;
      (4)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established;
      (5)   Premises, which due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion;
      (6)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply system, or where a cross-connection
could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of
process waters and cooling waters; and
      (7)   Premises where toxic or hazardous materials are handled.
   (C)   The following types of facilities fail into one or more of the
categories or premises where an approved air gap separation or reduced measure
principle backflow prevention device may be required by the city or its
authorized representative or the KDHE to protect the public water supply and
must be installed at the following (but not limited to) facilities unless all
hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected
by other methods to the satisfaction of the city or its authorized
representative and the KDHE:
      (1)   Agricultural chemical facilities;
      (2)   Auxiliary water systems, wells;
      (3)   Boilers;
      (4)   Bulk water loading facilities;
      (5)   Car washing facilities;
      (6)   Chemical manufacturing, processing, compounding or treatment
plants;
      (7)   Chill water systems;
      (8)   Cooling towers;
      (9)   Feedlots;
      (10)   Fire protection systems;
      (11)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites;
      (12)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics or others as discovered by sanitary
surveys;
      (13)   Irrigation and sprinkler systems;
      (14)   Laundries and dry cleaning;
      (15)   Meat processing facilities;
      (16)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing and fabricating plants;
      (17)   Oil and gas production, refining, storage or transmission
properties;
      (18)   Plating plants;
      (19)   Power plants;
      (20)   Research and analytical laboratories;
      (21)   Sewage and storm drainage facilities’ pumping stations and
treatment plants; and
      (22)   Veterinary clinics.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.030) (Ord. 3520, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 53.006 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
city or its authorized representative, for the conduction of surveys and
investigations of water use practices within the consumer’s premises to
determine whether there are actual or potential cross-connections in the
consumer’s water system.
   (B)   On request by the city or its authorized representative, the consumer
shall furnish requested information on water use practices within his or her
premises and in the consumer’s water system.
   (C)   On request by the city or its authorized representative, the consumer
shall conduct periodic surveys of water use practices on the premises of the
consumer’s water system to determine whether there are actual or potential
cross-connections. The consumer shall provide the survey results to the city or
its authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.040) (Ord. 3520, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 53.007 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   It is incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating cross-
connections between the public water supply and any sources of potential or
actual pollution or contaminates that a certain manual is adopted by the city,
known as “Manual of Cross-Connection Control”, latest edition, published by
“USC Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research”. No fewer
than three copies of said manual shall be marked or stamped, “Official Copy as
Adopted by Ordinance No. 3520,” and which shall be attached a copy of the
ordinance codified herein, and filed with the City Clerk to be open to
inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.050) (Ord. 3520, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 53.008 DEVICES; INSTALLATION.
   (A)   (1)   Any backflow prevention assembly required herein shall be a
make, model and size approved by KDHE and the city. The term APPROVED BACKFLOW
PREVENTION ASSEMBLY shall mean an assembly that has been manufactured in full
conformance with the standards established by the American Water Works
Association entitled: AWWA/ANSI Standard for Double Check Valve Backflow
Prevention Assemblies; AWWA/ANSI Standard for Reduced Pressure Principle
Backflow Prevention Assemblies and have met completely the laboratory and field
performance standard of the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and
Hydraulic Research of the University of Southern California (USC FCC-CHR)
established in: Standards of Backflow Prevention Assemblies Chapter 10 of the
most current edition of the “Manual of Cross-Connection Control”. Said AWWA and
USC FCCCHR standards have been adopted by the city. Final approval shall be
evidenced by a certificate of compliance for the said AWWA standards; or the
appearance of the specific model and size on the “List of Approved Backflow
Prevention Assemblies” published by the USC FCCCHR along with a certificate of
approval for the said USC FCCCHR Standards; issued by an approved testing
laboratory.
      (2)   The following testing laboratory has been recognized and
incorporated by reference by the city to test and approve backflow prevention
assemblies:
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research
University of Southern California
Los Angeles, California 90089-2531
      (3)   Testing laboratories other than the laboratory listed above will be
added to an approved list as they are qualified.
      (4)   Backflow preventers, which may be subjected to backpressure or
backsiphonage, that have been fully tested and have been granted a certificate
of approval by said qualified laboratory and are listed on FCCCHR laboratory’s
current list of approved backflow prevention assemblies may be used without
further test or qualification.
      (5)   All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies which do not
meet the requirements of this section, but were approved devices for the
purposes described herein at the time of installation and which have been
properly maintained, shall, except for the field testing and maintenance
requirements, be excluded from the requirements of these rules so long as the
city is assured that they will satisfactorily protect the water purveyor’s
system. Whenever the existing device is moved from the present location or
requires more than minimum maintenance or when the city finds that the
maintenance constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by an
approved backflow prevention assembly meeting the requirements of this division
(A).
(Prior Code, § 13.14.060)
   (B)   (1)   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed at a location and
in a manner approved by the city or its authorized agent. All devices shall be
installed at the expense of the water consumer, unless the city or its
authorized representative agrees otherwise.
      (2)   Backflow prevention devices installed at the service connection
shall be located on the consumer’s side of the water meter, as close to the
meter as is reasonably practical, and prior to any other connection.
      (3)   Backflow prevention devices shall be conveniently accessible for
maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, and where no part of the
device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid. All devices shall
be installed according to manufacturers’ recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.070)
(Ord. 3520, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 53.009 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Cross-connection control devices must be inspected, tested and
repaired by a trained technician. All devices should be installed such that
they will be accessible for regular inspecting and testing.
   (B)   The consumer is required by this regulation to inspect, test, and
overhaul backflow prevention devices in accordance with the following schedule
or more often as determined by the city or its authorized representative.
      (1)   Air gap separations shall be inspected at the time of installation
and at least annually.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned and repaired whenever
needed.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at the time of installation and at least
every 12 months thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected internally,
cleaned and repaired whenever needed.
   (C)   Inspections, tests and overhauls of backflow prevention devices shall
be made at the expense of the consumer and shall be performed by an approved
tester.
   (D)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this policy are found
to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced without delay at the
expense of the consumer.
   (E)   The consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device from purchase to retirement. This shall include a
comprehensive listing that includes a record of all tests, inspections and
repairs. All records of inspections, tests, repairs and overhauls shall be
provided to city or its authorized representative.
   (F)   All backflow prevention devices shall have a tag showing the date of
the last inspection, test or overhaul or other maintenance.
   (G)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
city or its authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.080) (Ord. 3520, passed 11-21-2017)
PRIVATE INFILTRATION AND INFLOW CONNECTIONS
§ 53.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. Entry into or upon any real estate or structure including any part
thereof.
   ACCESSIBLE. Capable of being reached without excavation.
   ADMINISTRATION. The Water and Sewer Department of the city and is designated
as the Department responsible for administering the provisions of this
subchapter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning two feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Fort Scott, Kansas.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Liquid and waterborne waste derived principally from
dwellings, businesses, institutions and the like; free from industrial wastes,
and of such character as to permit sanitary disposal without special treatment
into the public sewer or by means of a private sewage disposal system.
   GOVERNING BODY. The elected members of the City Commission.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. Liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from domestic wastewater.
   INFILTRATION. Water, as herein defined, entering the sanitary sewer system,
including building sewer connections, from the ground, through such means as,
but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, manhole walls,
foundation drains and sump pumps. INFILTRATION does not include, and is
distinguished from, “inflow”.
   INFLOW. Water discharged into the sanitary sewer system, including building
sewer connections, from such means as, but not limited to, roof downspouts or
leaders; cellar, yard and area drains; cleanouts; cooling water discharge;
drains from springs and swampy areas; manhole covers; cross- connections from
storm sewers; combined sewers; catch basins; storm waters; surface runoff;
street washwaters; or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished
from, “infiltration”.
   LESSEE. A person, firm or corporation having the responsibility, pursuant to
a written agreement with the owner, to maintain, repair or replace sanitary
sewer lines and/or discharges which cause infiltration or inflow, as herein
defined.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, partnership,
corporation or any other legal entity and/or assigns.
   PRIVATE SECTOR. All piping, plumbing, connections and appurtenances that
convey domestic and industrial wastewater to the sanitary sewer system and that
is the legal responsibility of the respective property owner.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and that is controlled by the governing body.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries domestic and industrial wastewater and
to which storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. All lines, pipes, tanks, conduits, structures or
other devices designed for the collection, transportation, storage, treatment
or disposal of domestic and industrial wastewaters, whether owned by the city
or other persons, and to which storm, surface and ground waters are not
intentionally admitted.
   SCHEDULE OF COMPLIANCE. A schedule of remedial measures and times, including
an enforceable sequence of actions or operations leading to compliance with
this subchapter.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes domestic and industrial wastewaters.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Water and Sewer Department of the
city, or the authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY. The system or facility for treating,
neutralizing, stabilizing or disposing of domestic and industrial wastewaters,
which system or facility has a designed capacity to receive flow rates from as
required under the NPDES permit. The term WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY shall
also include appurtenances such as interceptors, outfall and outlet sewers,
control structures, pumping stations and related equipment.
(Prior Code, § 13.15.010) (Ord. 3107, passed - -1994)
§ 53.021 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall henceforth make or allow the continued connection of roof
downspouts or leaders, interior or exterior foundation drains, cleanouts, sump
pumps, cellar, yard and area drains, cooling water discharges, drains from
springs or swampy areas, or other sources of surface, storm or groundwater to a
sewer system or drainage structure that is connected, either directly or
indirectly, to the sanitary sewer system, even though such connection may have
been allowable when made under then existing ordinances, rules, regulations or
standards. This is providing, however, that interior or exterior perimeter
building foundation drams connected directly into the sanitary sewer system
will be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter if the connect point is
not accessible and the connect was made prior to 1964.
(Prior Code, § 13.15.020) (Ord. 3107, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.022 DISCONNECT ORDER.
   (A)   The Superintendent or his or her designated agent may issue an order
directing the owner or the lessee of the real estate or structure to disconnect
all private infiltration or inflow connections from the sanitary sewer system.
The disconnect order shall be effective not less than 60 days from its date of
issuance. The disconnect order may state a deadline for compliance, but such
deadline shall, in no event, be more than six months after issuance of the
order.
   (B)   Within 30 days after receipt of the disconnect order, the owner or the
lessee may request a review hearing before the administration by filing a
written request with the superintendent. The filing of such a request shall act
as a stay of the disconnect order. A hearing shall be scheduled by the
administration within 30 days from the filing date of the owner or lessee.
   (C)   After such hearing, the administration may affirm, set aside or modify
such disconnect order, but the administration shall have no authority to set
aside or modify the disconnect order unless convinced that no private
infiltration or inflow exists on the premises. Decision by the administration
shall be issued no later than 15 days from the date of hearing.
(Prior Code, § 13.15.030) (Ord. 3107, passed - -1994)
§ 53.023 SERVICE TERMINATION.
   (A)   The city may order the termination of sanitary sewer service to any
real estate or structure if the owner or lessee has refused to allow access and
entry or has failed or refused to comply with the disconnect order requiring
that the private infiltration or inflow source be prohibited from entering the
sanitary sewer system. The termination shall be effective 30 days after notice
of termination has been served to the owner or lessee. Service of the
disconnect order shall be in person or by restricted delivery mail.
   (B)   Within 15 days after receipt of the termination order, the owner or
lessee may request a hearing before the administration by filing written
request therefore with the Superintendent. The filing of such a request shall
act as a stay of the termination order. A hearing shall be scheduled by the
administration within 30 days from the filing date of the owner or lessee.
After the hearing, the administration may affirm, set aside or modify the terms
of the order. A decision by the administration shall be issued no later than 15
days from the date of the hearing. The decision of the administration entered
after such a review hearing may be appealed de novo to the governing body of
the city, upon the filing of a written appeal with the City Clerk within ten
days after said decision. The governing body may affirm, set aside or modify
the order as issued or as modified within 30 days of said filing of appeal.
(Prior Code, § 13.15.040) (Ord. 3107, passed - -1994)
§ 53.024 SERVICE RECONNECTION.
   (A)   Sanitary sewer service disconnected under the provisions of §
53.023 of this chapter shall not be reconnected until the sources of
infiltration or inflow have been disconnected and verified by the
Superintendent.
   (B)   The cost of reconnection shall be the burden and sole responsibility
of the owner or lessee.
(Prior Code, § 13.15.050) (Ord. 3107, passed - -1994)
§ 53.025 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   In addition to or in lieu of termination of service and/or prosecution in
Municipal Court, the administration may maintain a civil action by injunction,
in the name of the governing body of the city to abate and temporarily or
permanently enjoin the continuation of the private infiltration and/or inflow
as a nuisance, in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 13.15.060) (Ord. 3107, passed - -1994)
§ 53.026 INSPECTION; ACCESS AND ENTRY.
   (A)   Access. Representatives of the administration shall have the right to
make an inspection of any parcel of real estate and/or structure for the
purpose of determining compliance with this subchapter. Inspections shall be
done at a reasonable weekday time between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
   (B)   Notice. If the structure or real estate to be inspected is occupied,
the representative of the administration shall first present proper credentials
and identification and request entry for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement and photographing in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter. If the structure or real estate is unoccupied, the
representative shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or
other person(s) having charge or control of the structure or real estate and
request entry.
   (C)   Search warrants. If, after proper request, entry or access is refused,
the administration may compel such access by application to a court of
competent jurisdiction for a search warrant in compliance with the provisions
of § 15 of the Kansas Constitution Bill of Rights, K.S.A. Article 25 of Chapter
22 and the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution
pertaining to unreasonable searches and seizures.
   (D)   Hold harmless. The city shall indemnify the property owner or lessee
against loss or damage to its property by city employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
owner or lessee and growing out of the inspection, except as such may be caused
by unsafe conditions.
   (E)   Easement access. The administration and other duly authorized
employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation and measurement of any portion of the sewer system lying within
said easement. All entry and subsequent inspection on said easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 13.15.070) (Ord. 3107, passed - -1994)
§ 53.027 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   Financial assistance in the form of partial for the actual costs of
private infiltration and inflow waters shall be provided to persons who receive
and promptly comply with the disconnect order issued pursuant to §
53.022 of this chapter. The reimbursement shall be in the amount and subject to
the terms and conditions set out in division (B) below.
   (B)   (1)   Upon confirmation by the superintendent that a private
infiltration or inflow source exists, the authority shall issue a disconnect
order to the owner and, if known, the lessee as set forth in §
53.022 of this chapter.
      (2)   The owner or lessee shall comply with the disconnect order by
either performing the work or having the work done by a licensed plumbing
contractor.
      (3)   All work shall be done in a workmanlike manner and shall be
performed in compliance with adopted codes and regulations of the authority.
      (4)   After completion of the work, the Superintendent shall reinspect
the premises to verify compliance with the disconnect order and also confirm
that there are no other private infiltration or inflow sources on the property.
      (5)   Upon verification of compliance with this subchapter, the city
shall reimburse the owner or lessee an amount equal to fifty percent of that
person’s cash expenditure for contract labor and material; but in no case shall
the reimbursement exceed $100 per structure or parcel of real estate even
though there are a multitude of sources; and, in no event shall the
reimbursement exceed the following maximum amounts per source:
 
Source Description                                         Maximum Amount
Cellar, yard, foundation and area drains (driveway, patio, $100 each
basement entry and the like)
Combination sanitary/storm pump                            $100 per sump pump
Directly connected storm sump pump with diverter valve     $100 per sump pump
Directly connected storm sump pump                         $100 per sump pump
Downspout or roof leader                                   $75 each
Untapped cleanout                                          $50 each
 
      (6)   It is the responsibility of the owner or lessee requesting partial
reimbursement to submit a certification of cost to the authority which shall
include an itemization of the work performed, including manhours of contract
labor and material used. A receipt for the material, from the store or supplier
where purchased, showing the price and quantities, shall be attached to the
certification of costs. If the work has been performed by a licensed plumber or
contractor, the owner or lessee shall, in addition, submit an endorsed
statement from the plumber or contractor which shall be attached to the
certification, verifying that the charges for the labor and material are true
and correct. Acceptance of reimbursement shall constitute a consent by the
person accepting such payment to a reinspection of the premises by the
Superintendent within five years following payment for the sole purpose of
verifying continued compliance with this subchapter. Such inspection shall be
done at a reasonable time of day set forth in § 
53.026 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.15.080) (Ord. 3107, passed - -1994)
§ 53.028 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not be construed or interpreted as imposing upon
the city or its officials or employees:
      (1)   Any liability or responsibility for damages to any property; or
      (2)   Any representation or warranty that any system, installation or
portion thereof that is constructed or repaired under orders and inspections
required by this chapter will function properly.
   (B)   In addition, neither the city nor any of its officials and employees
charged with the enforcement of this subchapter, if acting in good faith and
without malice in the discharge of their duties, shall be personally liable for
any damage that may occur to persons or property as a result of performing or
not performing any act required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.15.090) (Ord. 3107, passed - -1994)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The city or its authorized representative shall deny or
discontinue the water service to any premises or any consumer wherein any
backflow prevention device required by §§
53.001 through
53.009 of this chapter is not installed, tested, and maintained in a manner
acceptable to the city or its authorized representative, or if it is found that
the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if an
unprotected cross-connection exists, at any time and is determined that a
serious threat to the public health exists.
      (2)   The city or its authorized representative may impose fines and
penalties or take other reasonable measures to enforce compliance.
      (3)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer is in compliance with this cross-connection regulation to the
satisfaction of the city or its authorized representative.
      (4)   The city’s Water Department is authorized to make all necessary and
reasonable rules and policies with respect to the enforcement of §§
53.001 through
53.009 of this chapter. All such rules and policies shall be consistent with
the provisions of §§
53.001 through
53.009 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.14.090)
   (C)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of §§
53.020 through
53.028 of this chapter, a person violating any of the provisions of §§
53.020 through
53.028 of this chapter or its enforcement shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof in Municipal Court, shall be fined a
sum not exceeding $100 for each violation.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
53.020 through
53.028 of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 13.15.100)
(Ord. 3107, passed - -1994; Ord. 3520, passed 11-21-2017)
CHAPTER 54: WASTEWATER TREATMENT USER CHARGE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Purpose
   
54.002   Definitions
Financial Administration
   
54.015   User charges and revenues
   
54.016   Disposition of funds
   
54.017   Accounting procedures and adjustment of charges
User Charges
   
54.030   Applicability
   
54.031   Service charges generally; property owner liability
   
54.032   Residential charges
   
54.033   Industrial and commercial charges
   
54.034   Operation and maintenance; basic monthly charge
   
54.035   Wastewater surcharge
   
54.036   Waterworks and sewage system surcharge
   
54.037   Toxic discharges; extra costs
   
54.038   User charge system; biannual review
   
54.039   Current rates; annual notice; methodology; replacement schedule
   
54.040   Billing procedures; delinquency; penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.001 PURPOSE.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the city to
collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the city’s
treatment works. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the
purpose of operating, maintaining and retiring the debt for such public
wastewater treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.010) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
§ 54.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL CONTRIBUTORS. All those non-residential
contributors engaged in business and commercial activities.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 300 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 300
mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the city’s
treatment works whose lot, parcel of real estate or building is used for
domestic dwelling purposes only.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SS (SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, out-fall sewers, sewage
collection systems, individual systems, pumping, power and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvement, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply,
such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works,
including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
such treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such
compost, and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land-treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary
sewer systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment equipment, as defined
herein.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.020) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 54.015 USER CHARGES AND REVENUES.
   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay costs
of annual operation and maintenance, including replacement and costs associated
with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the treatment
works which the city may by ordinance designate to be paid by the user charge
system. That portion of the total user charge which is designated for operation
and maintenance including replacement of the treatment works shall be
established by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.030) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
§ 54.016 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   The portion of the total user charge collected which is designated for
operation and maintenance, including replacement purposes as established in §§
54.030 through
54.037 of this chapter, shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known
as the “Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund”, and will be kept in two
primary accounts as follows:
   (A)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying operation
and maintenance costs, excluding replacement, of the treatment works (Operation
and Maintenance Account); and
   (B)   An account designated for the specific purpose of ensuring replacement
needs over the useful life of the treatment works (Replacement Account).
Deposits in the Replacement Account shall be made annually from the operation,
maintenance and replacement revenue in the amount of $11,300 annually.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.040) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
§ 54.017 ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES AND ADJUSTMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation and Maintenance Account and
the Replacement Account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts.
   (B)   Moneys which have been transferred from order sources to meet
temporary shortages in the operation, maintenance and replacement shall be
returned io then respective accounts upon appropriate adjustment of the user
charge rates for operation, maintenance and replacement.
   (C)   The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such that the transferred
moneys will be returned to their respective account within the fiscal year
following the fiscal year in which the moneys were borrowed.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.050) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
USER CHARGES
§ 54.030 APPLICABILITY.
   The user charge rates established in §§
54.031 through
54.037 of this chapter apply to all users of the city’s treatment works located
in the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.060) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
§ 54.031 SERVICE CHARGES GENERALLY; PROPERTY OWNER LIABILITY.
   Each user shall pay for the services provided by the city based on their use
of the treatment works as determined by water meter(s) acceptable to the city.
All property owners shall be, and are hereby made liable for any and all bills
contracted by themselves, their agents or tenants, by reason of the use by said
agents or tenants of the city’s sewage facilities.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.070) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
§ 54.032 RESIDENTIAL CHARGES.
   (A)   For residential single-family contributors, monthly user charges will
be based on average monthly water usage during the months of December, January,
February and March.
   (B)   If a residential single-family contributor has not established a
December, January, February and March average, his or her monthly user charge
shall be the median charge of all other residential single-family contributors.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.080) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
§ 54.033 INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL CHARGES.
   (A)   For industrial and commercial contributors, user charges shall be
based on water used during the current month.
   (B)   If a commercial or industrial contributor has a consumptive use of
water, or in some other manner uses water which is not returned to the
wastewater collection system, the user charge for that contributor may be based
on a wastewater meter(s) or separate water meter(s) installed and maintained at
the contributor’s expense, and in a manner acceptable to the city, providing it
is not less than residential minimums.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.090) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
§ 54.034 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE; BASIC MONTHLY CHARGE.
   (A)   Each contributor shall pay a user charge rate of $25.65 per month
which will be the minimum base charge per month and include usage up to 2,300
gallons of water metered.
   (B)   The charge for water metered beyond the base rate is $2.38 per 750
gallons.
   (C)   An infrastructure reconstruction fee of $10 will be assessed each
month.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.100) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982; Ord. 2941, passed - -
1986; Ord. 2964, passed - -1987; Ord. 3100, passed - -1994; Ord. 3143, passed -
-1997; Ord. 3190, passed - -2000; Ord. 3208, passed - -2001; Ord. 3348, passed
8-19-2008; Ord. 3374, passed 12-1-2009; Ord. 3387, passed 12-21-2010; Ord.
3408, passed 2-21-2012; Ord. 3424, passed 11-20-2012; Ord. 3433, passed 12-3-
2013; Ord. 3446, passed 12-16-2014; Ord. 3466, passed 12-15-2015; Ord. 3484,
passed 11-15-2016; Ord. 3526, passed 12-5-2017; Ord. 3546, passed 12-18-2018;
Ord. 3552, passed 11-5-2019; Ord. 3596, passed 11-16-2021; Ord. 3778, passed
11-19-2024)
Editor’s note:
   The new rates will be effective the first full billing cycle in January
2025. Each year thereafter, rates will automatically increase 3% and will be
effective the first full billing cycle in January.
§ 54.035 WASTEWATER SURCHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   Reference §
54.039 of this chapter.
      (2)   For those contributors who contribute wastewater, the strength of
which is greater than normal domestic sewage, a surcharge in addition to charge
based on quantity of flow will be due.
   (B)   The surcharge for operation and maintenance, including replacement is:
      (1)   $0.02 per pound BOD in excess of 100 mg/l; and
      (2)   $0.02 per pound SS in excess of 100 mg/l.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.120) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
§ 54.036 WATERWORKS AND SEWAGE SYSTEM SURCHARGE.
2025 Storm Water User Charge
2025 Storm Water User Charge
Less than 3,000 sq. ft. of impervious area           $5.40 per month
6,000 sq. ft. - 5,999 sq. ft. of impervious area     $12.09 per month
6,000 sq. ft. - 8,999 sq. ft. of impervious area     $17.49 per month
9,000 sq. ft. - 11,999 sq. ft. of impervious area    $21.52 per month
12,000 sq. ft. - 14,999 sq. ft. of impervious area   $25.54 per month
15,000 sq. ft. - 17,999 sq, ft. of impervious area   $29.59 per month
18,000 sq. ft. - 20,999 sq. ft. of impervious area   $33.61 per month
21,000 sq. ft. - 23,999 sq. ft. of impervious area   $37.64 per month
24,000 sq. ft. - 27,999 sq. ft. of impervious area   $41.67 per month
28,000 sq. ft. - 33,999 sq. ft. of impervious area   $45.73 per month
34,000 sq. ft. - 39,999 sq. ft. of impervious area   $49.75 per month
40,000 sq. ft. - 46,999 sq. ft. of impervious area   $53.78 per month
47,000 sq. ft. - 69,999 sq. ft. of impervious area   $60.50 per month
70,000 sq. ft. - 99,999 sq. ft. of impervious area   $73.93 per month
100,000 sq. ft. - 199,999 sq. ft. of impervious area $87.37 per month
200,000 sq. ft. and up of impervious area            $100.81 per month
 
(Prior Code, § 13.24.121) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982; Ord. 3447, passed 12-16-
2014; Ord. 3467, passed 12-15-2015; Ord. 3485, passed 11-15-2016; Ord. 3527,
passed 12-5-2017; Ord. 3547, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 3553, passed 11-5-2019;
Ord. 3597, passed 11-16-2021; Ord. 3776, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 54.037 TOXIC DISCHARGES; EXTRA COSTS.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the city’s treatment
works, or any user which discharges any substance which, singly or by
interaction with other substances, causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each such user shall be as determined by
the responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the City Board.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.130) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
§ 54.038 USER CHARGE SYSTEM; BIANNUAL REVIEW.
   The city will review the user charge system biannually, and revise user
charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates adequate revenues
to pay the costs of operation and maintenance including replacement, and that
the system continues to provide for the proportional distribution of operation
and maintenance, including replacement costs among users and user classes.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.140) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
§ 54.039 CURRENT RATES; ANNUAL NOTICE; METHODOLOGY; REPLACEMENT SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The city will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation and maintenance,
including replacement of the treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.150)
   (B)   This division (B) presents the methodology to be used in calculating
user charge rates and surcharges and illustrates the calculations followed in
arriving at the first year’s user charges and surcharges. The unit costs
established in this division (B) are based on estimates of expenses and
loadings. The actual expenses and loadings that occur may differ from these
estimates and certainly they will change as time passes. Therefore, the unit
costs must be reestablished whenever necessary to reflect actual expenses and
loadings. Once the system is in use, the expenses and loading can be determined
from operating records and the unit costs can be adjusted based on these
figures.
      (1)   Expenses. The total annual expenses associated with the treatment
works, as defined in §
54.002 of this chapter, are estimated as follows:
 
Item                                                    Annual Expense
Billings, collection at present time and administrative $25,300
Power                                                   $42,000
Labor (including fringe benefits)                       $98,000
Material costs                                          $15,000
Replacement costs (see division (C) below)              $11,300
Total                                                   $191,600
 
      (2)   Allocation of expenses. The total operation and maintenance
including replacement expense is allocated to the appropriate pollutants in the
following manner:
 
                              = 100% annual cost allocated to Flow x (Total
Annual $ to Treat Annual Flow Annual O&M Budget minus Billing & Collection)
                              + 100% (B&C)
 
      (3)   Loadings.
         (a)   The initial hydraulic loading is estimated to be 29.5 million
cu. ft./yr.
         (b)   The initial BOD loading is estimated to be 570,000 lbs./yr.
         (c)   The initial SS loading is estimated to be 570,000 lbs./yr.
         (d)   Estimated number of users - 3,273.
      (4)   Unit costs.
 
Initial unit cost for flow in $/100 cu. = $0.65 for commercial, industrial and
ft.                                     residential
Initial unit cost for BOD in $/lb.      = $0.11
Unit cost for SS in $/lb.               = $0.11
 
      (5)   Minimum charge. Minimum charge is required by bonds (assume 100%
revenue bond of $210,500).
 
TOTAL annual minimum cost          = $64.20
Minimum charge/user/billing period = $5.35
 
      (6)   Residential single-family contributor unit charge. The residential
user charge is calculated as follows, using the pollutant concentration
defining normal domestic wastewater in §
54.002 of this chapter.
Residential Charge = Minimum Charge + (Unit Flow Charge x Flow)
Where: unit flow charge is in $/100 cu. ft. from Paragraph 4.
      An example calculation of a residential charge for a resident of the city
follows:
 
Residential flow           = 1,000 cu. ft./mo. ($.65 per 100 cu. ft, over 300
                           cu. ft)
Residential BOD5           = 300 mg/1
Residential SS             = 300 mg/l
Residential monthly charge = $5.35 + (7 x .65) = $9.90
 
      (7)   Extra strength users. For users who contribute wastewater that has
greater strength than normal domestic wastewater, the user charge will be
calculated as follows:
 
Monthly charge to extra strength user = ES - extra strength
                                     = ND - normal domestic
 
Flow x (Unit Flow Charge)
+ Flow x (Unit BOD Charge) x BODES - BODND x (.00834)
+ Flow x (Unit SS Charge) x SSES - SSND x (.00834)
Where: Total monthly charge to extra-strength user is in dollars.
(1)    Flow is the volume of wastewater in 1,000 gallons discharged by the
extra-strength user during the month.
(2)    Unit flow charge is in $/100 cu. ft. as used in Paragraph 6.
(3)    Unit BOD charge is in $/lb. BOD from Paragraph 4.
(4)    Unit SS charge is in $/lb. SS from Paragraph 4.
      (8)   Contributors living within the city limits not on city water
system. For those users who contribute wastewater that are not connected to the
city water system, the user charge will be calculated as follows: minimum
monthly charge/user not connected/billing period: $10.50.
      (9)   User having grease or toxic pollutants. For those users who
contribute a grease discharge, the discharge shall be limited to a 24-hour
average strength of 100 mg/l. A surcharge of $0.11 per pound is levied on all
grease discharge in any 24-hour average concentration above 100 mg/l. Any user
which discharges toxic pollutants that cause an increase in the cost of
managing the effluent or the sludge from the city’s treatment plant shall pay
for such increased costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13.24, App. A) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
   (C)   This division (C) contains a replacement schedule that was developed
to determine the amount of revenue needed to fund the Replacement Account. The
replacement schedule lists the equipment in the treatment works, the estimated
dates when the equipment will have to be replaced, and the estimated cost of
replacement (including an allowance for inflation) over the useful life of the
treatment works. Also listed is the estimated cash flow that will occur in the
Replacement Account. The replacement dates and costs shown are estimates; the
actual replacement dates and costs could be significantly different from those
listed in the replacement schedule, the funding of the Replacement Account
shall be adjusted accordingly.
 
Replacement Schedule
Years From Treatment Replacement Item         Replacement Account
Works In Operation                            Expenditure Income   Balance
5                    Pump and blower motors   $21,039     $68,987  $47,948
10                   2 small raw sewage pumps $107,800    $146,208 $38,408
                     and blowers
15                   Pump and blower motors   $41,385     $130,843 $89,458
20                   Raw sewage pumps and     $212,834    $213,059 $225
                     blowers
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 13.24, App. B) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
§ 54.040 BILLING PROCEDURES; DELINQUENCY; PENALTIES.
   (A)   All bills for the use of wastewater shall be due on receipt and
payable by the last day of each and every month. All bills remaining unpaid
after the tenth day of the following month are hereby declared delinquent. If
any wastewater bill remains due and unpaid after the tenth of the following
month, the city shall have the right to refuse further service to any user
delinquent in the payment of his or her bill, and may cut off sanitary sewage
facility and water service until any or all such delinquent bills are paid.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.160)
   (B)   The city shall add a maximum penalty charge of 10% per month on the
amount of said delinquencies, said charge commencing after the tenth of the
month. The user shall pay the penalty charge to the city together with a
reasonable fee for cutting off and turning on sanitary sewage facility and
water service in cases where the user’s service has been cut off for the reason
specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 13.24.170) (Ord. 2842, passed - -1982)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   RAILROADS
      
73.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.001   Standard Traffic Ordinance adoption
   
70.002   Effect of amendment
   
70.003   Toy vehicles restricted
   
70.004   Mechanical exhausts
   
70.005   Traffic-control devices
§ 70.001 STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE ADOPTION.
   (A)   The following document, Standard Traffic Ordinance for Kansas Cities,
51st Edition, prepared and published in book form by the League of Kansas
Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas, is hereby adopted as part of the city’s Uniform
Traffic Code, which shall include each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said document; one printed copy shall be on
file in the office of the City Clerk marked and designated or stamped “Official
Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 3772” and shall be open for inspection and
available to the public at all reasonable hours, and an electronic version will
be available on the city’s website (www.fscity.org).
   (B)   The Police Department, Municipal Judge and all administrative
departments in the city charged with the enforcement of this traffic code shall
be supplied at the cost of the city, such number of official copies of
“Standard Traffic Ordinances for Kansas Cities” as may be deemed expedient.
   (C)   Changes in the Standard Traffic Ordinance for the 51st Edition,
published in 2024:
      (1)   Section 201.1 Amended Failure to Comply with a Traffic Citation;
and
      (2)   Section 201.2 Added Failure to Comply with a Traffic Citation.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.010) (Ord. 3441, passed 8-5-2014; Ord. 3480, passed 8-2-
2016; Ord. 3514, passed 7-18-2017; Ord. 3590, passed 10-5-2021; Ord. 3772,
passed 11-5-2024)
§ 70.002 EFFECT OF AMENDMENT.
   In accordance with K.S.A. 12-3012, whenever a statute, or section thereof,
or a state regulation, or portion thereof, which has been incorporated by
reference in this traffic code and which has been amended by the legislature or
changed by the state officer, board or agency, prior to the date of the
enactment of ordinances codified in this traffic code, such statute or section
thereof, or state regulation, or portion thereof, shall be deemed to be enacted
as amended or changed.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.020) (Ord. 2836, passed - -1982)
§ 70.003 TOY VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, skateboards or riding in or by means of any
coaster, toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while
crossing a street at a crosswalk, or upon any sidewalks, except in areas which
are zoned residential and except upon streets set aside as play streets.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.060) (Ord. 3000, passed - -1990) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 70.004 MECHANICAL EXHAUSTS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or
cause to be used or operated within the city any mechanical exhaust device
designed to aid in the stopping or braking of a vehicle, in a manner so as to
create excessive, loud or unusual explosive noise from a vehicle. This
prohibition shall include, but not limited to, the procedure commonly known as
“Jake braking”.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.070) (Ord. 3264, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 70.005 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Specifications; conformance required. All traffic-control devices
hereafter erected within the city shall conform to the manual and
specifications adopted by the state’s Department of Transportation.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.010)
   (B)   Chief of Police; powers and duties generally.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is authorized to cause traffic-control devices
to be erected and maintained in accordance with the manual and specifications
referred to in division (A) above.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall cause the erection and maintenance of
traffic-control devices conforming to the manual and specifications upon all
streets or highways of the city as he or she shall deem necessary to indicate
and to carry out the provisions of this traffic code, or to regulate, warn or
guide traffic.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.020)
(Ord. 2540, passed - -1974)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
71.001   Operation regulations; equipment
   
71.002   Valid driver’s license required
   
71.003   Definition
   
71.004   Slow-moving vehicle emblem; display
   
71.005   Insurance
   
71.006   Registration and license; fee; application; inspection
   
71.007   Proper signaling
Utility Terrain Vehicles
   
71.020   Operation regulations
   
71.021   Valid driver’s license required
   
71.022   Definition
   
71.023   Insurance
   
71.024   Registration and license; fee; application; inspection
   
71.025   Equipment required
Bicycles
   
71.040   Definitions
   
71.041   Registration; information required
   
71.042   Plate or tag; affixed to bicycle
   
71.043   License fee
   
71.044   Operation requirements and prohibitions
   
71.045   Equipment required
   
71.046   Compliance with traffic regulations required
   
71.047   Parents not to authorize violations
   
71.048   Enforcement authority
 
   
71.999   Penalty
**** GOLF CARTS ****
§ 71.001 OPERATION REGULATIONS; EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Golf carts may be operated upon the public highways, streets,
roads and alleys within the corporate limits of the city; provided, however,
that, no golf cart may be operated upon any public highway, street, road and
alley with a posted speed limit more than Thirty (35) mph.
      (2)   No golf cart shall be operated on any interstate highway, federal
highway or state highway; provided, however, that, the provisions of this
section shall not prohibit a golf cart from crossing a federal or state highway
or a street or highway with a posted speed limit greater than 35 mph.
   (B)   No golf cart shall be operated on any public sidewalk.
   (C)   Every person operating a golf cart on the public highways, streets,
roads and alleys of the city shall be subject to all the duties applicable to
the driver of a vehicle imposed by law.
   (D)   (1)   Golf carts may be operated on any public highway, street, road
or alley as set out in division (A) above.
      (2)   For golf carts to be operated on any public highway, street, road
or alley either before sunrise or after sunset, said golf cart must be equipped
with the following:
         (a)   Headlamps;
         (b)   Tail lamps;
         (c)   Reflectors (rear);
         (d)   Stop lamps; and
         (e)   Turn signals.
(Ord. 3769, passed 8-20-2024) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.002 VALID DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a golf cart on any public highway, street, road or
alley within the corporate limits of the city unless such person has a valid
driver’s license.
(Ord. 3769, passed 8-20-2024) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 DEFINITION.
   A GOLF CART means a motor vehicle that has not less than three wheels in
contact with the ground, an unladen weight of not more than 1,800 pounds, is
designed to be operated at not more than 35 mph and is designed to carry not
more than six people, including the driver.
(Ord. 3769, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 71.004 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM; DISPLAY.
   (A)   It shall be illegal to operate a golf cart on any public highway,
street, road or alley within the corporate limits of the city unless such
vehicle displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem on the rear of the vehicle.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a slow-moving vehicle emblem has the
same meaning as contained in K.S.A. 8-1717 and amendments thereto.
   (C)   The slow-moving vehicle emblem shall be mounted and displayed in
compliance with K.S.A. 8-1717 and amendments thereto.
(Ord. 3769, passed 8-20-2024) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.005 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of a golf cart shall provide liability coverage in
accordance with § 200 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and amendments
thereto, and the state’s Automobile Injury Reparations Act, K.S.A. 40-3101 et
seq. and amendments thereto.
   (B)   All provisions of § 200 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and
amendments thereto, shall be applicable to all owners and operators of golf
carts.
(Ord. 3769, passed 8-20-2024) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.006 REGISTRATION AND LICENSE; FEE; APPLICATION; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Before operating any golf cart on any public highway, street, road or
alley within the corporate limits of the city and each calendar year
thereafter, the vehicle shall be registered with the city and a license shall
be obtained and placed on the golf cart. The license fee shall be $50 per
calendar year, payable in advance to the City Clerk. The full amount of the
license fee shall be required regardless of the time of year that the
application is made.
   (B)   Application for registration of a golf cart shall be made by the
owner, or owner’s agent, in the office of the City Clerk. The application shall
be made upon forms provided by the city and each application shall contain the
name of the owner, the owner’s residence address or bona fide place of
business, a brief description of the vehicle to be registered including make,
model and serial number, if applicable. Proof of insurance, as required in §
71.005 of this chapter, shall be furnished, at the time of application for
registration.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of the registration and license, each applicant
for a golf cart license shall first present such vehicle for an official
inspection. If, upon inspection and completion of the registration application,
such vehicle is found to be in a safe mechanical condition, and upon
establishing proof of insurance and payment of the fees herein provided, a
license shall be issued to the owner who shall attach it to the vehicle. The
license shall be displayed in such a manner as to be clearly visible from the
rear of the vehicle. The license number on the application will be accounted
for and then filed in the Police Department.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously remove,
destroy, mutilate or alter such licenses during the time in which the same is
operative.
   (E)   The license issued hereunder is not transferable. In the event of sale
or other transfer of ownership of any vehicle license under the provisions of
this section, the existing license and the right to use the numbered license
shall expire and the license shall be removed by the owner. It is unlawful for
any person other than the person to whom the license was originally issued to
have the same in his or her possession.
   (F)   In the event a license is lost or destroyed, the City Clerk, upon
proper showing by the licensee and the payment of a fee of $25, shall issue a
new license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate, or for the owner thereof knowingly to permit the
operation, upon a public street, road, highway or alley within the corporate
limits of the city any golf cart, as defined herein, which is not registered,
and which does not have attached thereto and displayed thereon the license
assigned thereto by the city for the current registration year;
      (2)   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or to have in possession,
any registration receipt, registration license or registration decal knowing
the same to be fictitious or to have been canceled, revoked, suspended or
altered;
      (3)   Lend to or knowingly permit the use by one not entitled thereto any
registration receipt, registration license plate or registration decal issued
to the person so lending or permitting the use thereof;
      (4)   Remove, conceal, alter, mark or deface the license number plate,
plates or decals, or any other mark of identification upon any golf cart.
Licenses shall be kept clean and placed as required by law to be plainly
visible and legible; and/or
      (5)   Carry or display a registered number plate or plates or
registration decal upon any golf cart not lawfully issued for such vehicle.
(Ord. 3769, passed 8-20-2024) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.007 PROPER SIGNALING.
   If the golf cart is not equipped with headlights, brake lights or
taillights, the operator must give hand signals to indicate he or she is
stopping or turning.
(Ord. 3769, passed 8-20-2024) Penalty, see §
71.999
**** UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES ****
§ 71.020 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   UTVs may be operated UPON the public highways, streets, roads and
alleys within the corporate limits of the city; provided, however, that, no UTV
may be operated upon any public highway, street, road and alley with a posted
speed limit in excess of 35 mph or upon any interstate highway, federal highway
or state highway; provided, however, that, the provisions of this section shall
not prohibit a UTV from crossing a federal or state highway or a street or
highway with a posted speed limit greater than 30 mph.
   (B)   No UTV shall be operated on any public sidewalk or other area not
specifically designated as a traffic lane.
   (C)   Every person operating a UTV on the public highways, streets, roads
and alleys of the city shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to a
licensed driver or a vehicle imposed by law.
(Ord. 3761, passed 3-19-2024) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.021 VALID DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a UTV on any public highway, street, road or alley
within the corporate limits of the city unless such person has a valid driver’s
license and is 18 years of age or older.
(Ord. 3761, passed 3-19-2024) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.022 DEFINITION.
   A UTV means any motor vehicle which is not less than 48 inches in width, has
an overall length, including the bumper, of not more than 160 inches, has an
unladen weight, including fuel and fluids, of more than 1,000 pounds, can
exceed 25 mph and originally manufactured. This definition does not include an
“all-terrain vehicle (ATV)”, which is a vehicle designed with a seat to be
straddled and which is not authorized to be on the city streets.
(Ord. 3761, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 71.023 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of a UTV shall provide liability insurance coverage in
accordance with § 200 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and amendments
thereto, and the state’s Automobile Injury Reparations Act, K.S.A. 40-3101 et
seq. and amendments thereto.
   (B)   All provisions of § 200 of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and
amendments thereto, shall be applicable to all owners and operators of UTVs.
(Ord. 3761, passed 3-19-2024) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.024 REGISTRATION AND LICENSE; FEE; APPLICATION; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Before operating any UTV on a public highway, street, road or alley
within the corporate limits of the city and each calendar year thereafter, the
vehicle shall be registered with the city and a license shall be obtained and
placed on the UTV. The license fee shall be $50 per calendar year (ending on
December 31 of each year), payable in advance to the City Clerk. The full
amount of the license fee shall be required regardless of the time of year that
the application is made.
   (B)   Application for registration of a UTV shall be made by the owner, or
owner’s agent, in the office of the City Clerk. The application shall be made
upon forms provided by the city and each application shall contain the name of
the owner, the owner’s residential address or bona fide place of business, a
brief description of the vehicle to be registered including make, model and
serial number, if applicable. Proof of insurance as required in division (D)
below shall be furnished at the time of application for registration.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of the registration and license, each applicant
for a UTV license shall first present such vehicle for an official inspection.
If a previous license for the prior year has been issued by the city, then no
such inspection shall be required. An inspection shall be required if the
vehicle has been transferred to a new owner. If, upon inspection and completion
of the registration application, such vehicle is found to be in a safe
mechanical condition, and upon establishing proof of insurance and payment of
the fees herein provided, a license shall be issued to the owner who shall
attach it to the vehicle. The license shall be displayed in such a manner as to
be clearly visible from the rear of the vehicle. The license number on the
application will be maintained and filed at City Hall with a copy provided to
the city’s Police Department.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously remove,
destroy, mutilate or alter such license during the time in which the same is
operative.
   (E)   The license issued hereunder is not transferable. In the event of sale
or other transfer of ownership of any vehicle license under the provisions of
this section, the existing license and the right to use the numbered license
shall expire and the license shall be removed by the owner. It is unlawful for
any person other than the person to whom the license was originally issued to
have the same in his or her possession.
   (F)   (1)   In the event a license is lost or destroyed, the City Clerk,
upon proper showing by the licensee and the payment of a fee of $25, shall
issue a new license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Before an inspection is done on any UTV to be registered with city,
proof of title registration must be provided. If no title registration can be
provided, the city will not consider a UTV for inspection.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate, or for the owner thereof knowingly to permit the
operation, upon a public street, road, highway or alley within the corporate
limits of the city any UTV, as defined herein, which is not registered and
which does not have attached thereto and displayed thereon the license assigned
thereto by the city for the current registration year;
      (2)   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or to have in possession,
any registration receipt, registration license or registration decal knowing
the same to be fictitious or to have been canceled, revoked, suspended or
altered;
      (3)   Lend to or knowingly permit the use by one not entitled thereto any
registration receipt, registration license plate or registration decal issued
to the person so lending or permitting the use thereof;
      (4)   Remove, conceal, alter, mark or deface the license number plate,
plates or decals, or any other mark of identification upon any UTV. Licenses
shall be kept clean and placed as required by law so as to be plainly visible
and legible; and/or
      (5)   Carry or display a registered number plate or plates or
registration decal upon any UTV not lawfully issued for such vehicle.
(Ord. 3761, passed 3-19-2024) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.025 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   All UTVs shall be equipped with the following before registering with the
city:
   (A)   Head lamps;
   (B)   Tail lamps;
   (C)   Reflectors (rear);
   (D)   Stop lamps;
   (E)   Turn signals;
   (F)   Mirror: left side of vehicle;
   G)   Mirror: right side or inside center;
   (H)   Safety belts and shoulder harnesses; and
   (I)   Mufflers and noise suppressing system.
(Ord. 3761, passed 3-19-2024)
**** BICYCLES ****
§ 71.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   STREET. The streets, avenues, alleys and other public grounds of the city,
and shall not include sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.010) (Ord. 2357, passed - -1965)
§ 71.041 REGISTRATION; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   The owner of a bicycle may register the same by giving the following
information to the Chief of Police, who shall keep a record thereof at his or
her office:
   (A)   Name of bicycle;
   (B)   Type of bicycle;
   (C)   Color of bicycle;
   (D)   Serial number of bicycle; and
   (E)   Name and address of owner.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.030) (Ord. 2357, passed - -1965; Ord. 3419, passed 8-21-
2012)
§ 71.042 PLATE OR TAG; AFFIXED TO BICYCLE.
   (A)   The city shall furnish to every owner whose bicycle is registered, one
number plate or tag for each bicycle.
   (B)   The tag or plate shall be displayed on the bicycle to which it is
assigned during the current registration year in such a manner as to be clearly
visible from the rear of the bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.040) (Ord. 2357, passed - -1965)
§ 71.043 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual licence for a bicycle is issued for each calendar year, or part
thereof; provided that, any bicycle which is registered by a new owner on or
following December 24 of any calendar year may display the number plate or tag
for the ensuing calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.050) (Ord. 2357, passed - -1965; Ord. 3040, passed - -
1992; Ord. 3419, passed 8-21-2012)
§ 71.044 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Operation astride other than seat prohibited. A person operating a
bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride the permanent and regular
seat attached thereto, and no bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.070)
   (B)   Excessive speed prohibited. No person shall operate a bicycle at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then
existing.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.080)
   (C)   Operation on right-hand side of street required. Every person
operating a bicycle upon the streets shall ride as near to the right-hand side
of the street as practicable.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.090)
   (D)   Attachment to moving vehicle prohibited. No person riding upon any
bicycle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.100)
   (E)   More than two abreast prohibited. Persons operating bicycles upon the
streets shall not ride more than two abreast.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.110)
   (F)   One hand required on handlebars. No person operating a bicycle shall
carry any package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at
least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.120)
   (G)   Riding on sidewalks prohibited. No person shall ride a bicycle on the
sidewalks in the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.130)
   (H)   Trick or stunt riding on streets prohibited. No person shall do any
trick or stunt riding on a bicycle on a street.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.160)
(Ord. 2357, passed - -1965) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.045 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Lighting requirements. Every bicycle operated upon the street or
highway in the nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting
a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front and
with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the rear; except that, a red reflector meeting the requirements of this
division (A) may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.140)
   (B)   Proper brakes required. No person shall operate a bicycle without
proper brakes upon any street.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.150)
(Ord. 2357, passed - -1965) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.046 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   Any person riding a bicycle in the city shall be subject to and shall comply
with all of the provisions of this traffic code applicable to said rider,
except those provisions which, by their nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.170) (Ord. 2357, passed - -1965)
§ 71.047 PARENTS NOT TO AUTHORIZE VIOLATIONS.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.180) (Ord. 2357, passed - -1965)
§ 71.048 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Chief of Police shall have the power to make additional regulations
necessary to make effective the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.190) (Ord. 2357, passed - -1965)
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Unless specifically provided herein, a violation of §§
71.001 through
71.007 of this chapter shall be deemed an ordinance traffic infraction. Upon an
entry of a plea of guilty or no contest or upon being convicted of such
violation, the penalty imposed shall be in accordance with § 201, Standard
Traffic Ordinance, and amendments thereto, or such other similar provision as
the city may then have in effect.
      (2)   Violation of §
71.002 of this chapter is punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by
imprisonment for not more than six months or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
      (3)   (a)   Any person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions
of §
71.006 of this chapter shall, for the first conviction thereof, be punished by
a fine of not more than $500.
         (b)   A violation of §
71.006(G)(2) of this chapter shall constitute an unclassified misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not less than $100 and forfeiture of the item. A
mandatory court appearance shall be required of any person violating §
71.006(G)(2) of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Unless specifically provided herein, a violation of §§
71.020 through
71.025 of this chapter shall be deemed a traffic infraction. Upon an entry of a
plea of guilty or no contest or upon being convicted of such violation, the
penalty imposed shall be in accordance with § 201, Standard Traffic Ordinance,
and amendments thereto, or such other similar provision as the city may then
have in effect.
      (2)   (a)   Any person convicted of, or a violation of, any of the
provisions of §
71.024 of this chapter shall for the first conviction thereof be punished by a
fine of not more than $500.
         (b)   A violation of §
71.024(G)(2) of this chapter shall constitute an unclassified misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not less than $100 and forfeiture of the item. A
mandatory court appearance shall be required of any person violating §
71.024(G)(2) of this chapter.
   (D)   Any person or persons who violate any of the provisions of §§
71.040 through
71.048 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances or by impounding such person’s bicycle or
bicycles, if he or she owns more than one, for a period of not to exceed 30
days, during which period of impoundment such person shall not ride any other
bicycle upon the streets of the city or by any combination thereof. In case of
impoundment, the bicycle shall be surrendered to the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 10.40.200)
(Ord. 2357, passed - -1965; Ord. 3761, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 3769, passed 8-
20-2024)
CHAPTER 72: RAILROADS
Section
   
72.001   Crossing lights required
   
72.002   Lights; failure to provide; notice; cost
   
72.003   Obstruction of streets prohibited; time limit
   
72.004   Unlawful nuisance
 
   
72.999   Penalty
§ 72.001 CROSSING LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   Every railroad or railway company owning, controlling or operating any line
of railroad or railway extending into or passing through the city, or any
person or receiver appointed by any court who is in possession of or operating
any line of railroad or railway extending into or passing through the city,
shall furnish at their own expense, at such places within the corporate limits
of the city as the railway or railroad crosses the public street or highway,
such light or lights as may be designated and ordered by the City Manager and
Board of Commissioners of the city, by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 10.36.010) (Ord. 1106, passed - -1909) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.002 LIGHTS; FAILURE TO PROVIDE; NOTICE; COST.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to notify any railroad or
railway company or person or receiver mentioned in §
72.001 of this chapter of the action of the City Manager and Board of
Commissioners designating and ordering lights to be placed at any railroad or
railway crossings, and such notice shall be given by service of a copy thereof
upon the ticket or station agent of any such railroad or railway company at the
city, or the receiver owning or operating such railroad or railway, and such
railroad or railway company, or person or receiver owning or operating such
railroad, who fails or neglects to furnish lights at such railroad or railway
crossings as may be designated by the City Manager and Board of Commissioners
for a period of 30 days after receiving service of notice from the City Clerk
shall forfeit and pay to the city the sum of $25 for each day such company,
person or receiver thereafter fails to comply with this chapter, which sum
shall be recovered by a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
The failure to furnish each and every light ordered by the City Manager and
Board of Commissioners shall constitute a separate forfeit and cause of action,
and each day shall constitute a separate and distinct cause of action, which
may be recovered by the city in a separate cause of action.
(Prior Code, § 10.36.020)
   (B)   If any of the railroads or railways, persons or receivers mentioned in
this chapter fails or neglects to furnish lights at railroad crossings as may
be designated by the City Manager and Board of Commissioners within 30 days
after being notified, as mentioned in division (A) above, the city may furnish
the light and may recover therefor by way of penalty and forfeiture, in
addition to the penalty and forfeiture mentioned in division (A) above, double
the amount of any money paid or obligated to be paid by the city in procuring
and furnishing said lights, which may be recovered in a civil action in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The furnishing of lights by the city for every
three months shall constitute a separate cause of action in favor of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.36.030)
(Ord. 1106, passed - -1909) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.003 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS PROHIBITED; TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, persons, corporation or corporations to
obstruct any street avenue or alley in the city by stopping or standing railway
cars, trains of cars, locomotive or locomotives, in, on or across any street
avenue or alley in the city, or the leaving closed of any crossing gate or
other device designed to prevent or regulate the passage of persons or vehicles
on said street, avenue or alley so as to prevent for more than ten minutes at
one time the passage of persons or vehicles on or along any street, avenue or
alley.
   (B)   The leaving of an opening of less than 30 feet in width in the
traveled portion of a street, avenue or alley shall be deemed to be a violation
of this chapter.
   (C)   Any conductor, engineer braker or firefighter, or any other person or
persons who is operating or assisting in operating any railway car, train of
cars, locomotive or locomotives which is allowed to obstruct any street, avenue
or alley in the city shall, on conviction, be deemed and held to be guilty of a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.36.040) (Ord. 2164, passed - -1953) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.004 UNLAWFUL NUISANCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, persons or corporations, within the
city limits, to park with the engine running a locomotive or locomotives within
500 feet of any residence or structure unless the locomotive or locomotives are
parked in a railroad yard, which shall be an area so designated by the railroad
and containing three or more tracks.
   (B)   Any conductor, engineer, braker or firefighter, or any other person or
persons who are operating or assisting in operating any locomotive or
locomotives in such an area, shall, on conviction, be deemed to be guilty of a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.36.045) (Ord. 3176, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, persons, corporation or corporations violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.36.010)
   (B)   Any person, persons, corporation or corporations violating any portion
of §
72.004 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.36.045)
(Ord. 2164, passed - -1953; Ord. 3176, passed - -1999)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Main trafficways
      
II.   Parking restricted
      
III.   Truck routes
      
IV.   ATV restrictions
SCHEDULE I. MAIN TRAFFICWAYS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of K.S.A. 12-685, the following described
streets and avenues located in the city, are designated and established as main
trafficways:
      (1)   The following trafficways, known as U.S. Highways 54 and 69:
         (a)   Wall Street from the east city limits to the east line of
National Avenue;
         (b)   National Avenue from the north city limits to the east line of
the intersection of East National Avenue with Fairground Avenue; and
         (c)   Fairground Avenue from the south city limits to the south line
of East National Avenue.
      (2)   Sixth Street from National Street to Horton Street and Horton
Street from Sixth Street to Eighteenth Street, and Ninth Street from Horton
Street to Burke Street.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.010)
   (B)   The primary functions of main trafficways shall be the movement of
through traffic between areas of concentrated activity within the city and
between such areas within the city and traffic facilities outside the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.020)
(Ord. 2285, passed - -1962; Ord. 2365, passed - -1966)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Parking restricted generally.
      (1)   Main Street parking. It is unlawful for any vehicle to park or
remain parked on North Main Street between 3rd Street and Old Fort Boulevard
for more than two consecutive hours between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., unless the
parking space is posted with a different limit.
(Prior Code, § 10.24.010)
      (2)   Two-hour parking areas. It is unlawful for any person to cause,
allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in his or her name or operated
or controlled by him or her to be parked for more than two hours in public
parking areas designated and signed as “two-hour parking areas”.
(Prior Code, § 10.24.020)
      (3)   Public square; prohibited; exceptions. It is unlawful for any
person to park any vehicle upon the public square, also known as Market Square,
in the city, except in the spaces marked off by white lines and designated for
such parking by the authority of the governing body of the city, or to park any
vehicle in the entranceways to the parking spaces so marked off and designated.
(Prior Code, § 10.24.030)
      (4)   Truck tractor and trailer; prohibited where.
         (a)   It is unlawful for any person to park or stand any truck
tractor, trailer or semi-trailer on any street in that area zoned as R/S,
Residential Suburban District, R/1, Single-Family Dwelling District, R/2,
Single-Family Dwelling District, R/3, Two-Family Dwelling District and R/4,
Multiple-Family Dwelling District, pursuant to the zoning and subdivision
regulations adopted in Ord. 2992.
         (b)   It is unlawful for any person to park or stand any trailer or
semi-trailer which has been detached from a truck tractor on any street in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 10.24.040)
      (5)   Buses; permission required. It is unlawful for the driver of any
motor bus used for the conveyance of passengers for hire in any business not
operated wholly within the city, to park any motor bus used in such business on
any paved street in the city for the purpose of receiving and discharging
passengers, without first securing written permission to do so from the Board
of Commissioners of the city, and the written consent of the abutting property
owner before whose property the motor bus is to be parked.
(Prior Code, § 10.24.050)
      (6)   Violation; penalty. In addition to any punishment prescribed in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances, there will be a minimum fine created for
each violation in the amount of $60 for violation of this division (A).
(Prior Code, § 10.24.060)
   (B)   Prohibited parking.
      (1)   Prohibited areas. It is unlawful for any vehicle to be operated in
the city limits, or on city-owned property, on any surface other than a
roadway, parking lot or private drive.
(Prior Code, § 10.44.010)
      (2)   Penalty for violation. Any person violating the provisions of this
division (B) shall, upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be assessed a fine of not less than $250 and no more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 10.44.020)
(Ord. 1800, passed - -1925; Ord. 2220, passed - -1956; Ord. 2585, passed - -
1975; Ord. 2600, passed - -1976; Ord. 2675, passed - -1977; Ord. 2739, passed -
-1979; Ord. 2819, passed - -1982; Ord. 3096, passed - -1994; Ord. 3568, passed
11-3-2020; Ord. 3619, passed 11-1-2022)
SCHEDULE III. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Vehicles required to follow truck route.
      (1)   From and after the designation and signing of any truck route in
the city:
         (a)   To pick up or deliver cargo, such vehicle may depart from the
truck route(s) by the shortest distance to end from the point of said pickup or
delivery. In the case of multiple pickups or deliveries, said departure shall
take a route which has the shortest cumulative distance not on the truck route
(s); and
         (b)   Every truck tractor, trailer (with or without trailer or semi-
trailer) and every vehicle or trailer having three or more axles shall use and
follow such prescribed route or routes while in the city and shall not use any
residential street or other street, except those designated and marked as truck
routes.
      (2)   Officers of public safety of the city may direct the rerouting of
all such vehicles at their option.
(Prior Code, § 10.48.010)
   (B)   Prohibition of travel on Broadway.
      (1)   Motor homes, fifth-wheel trailers, trucks with a vehicle weight
over 11,400 pounds and recreational vehicles with a similar vehicle weight are
prohibited from travel on Broadway between Wall Street and Charles Street in
the city.
      (2)   This prohibition shall exclude all emergency vehicles (fire, safety
and police), and any utility service vehicles or street maintenance vehicles
owned by the city or by one of its franchise holders.
      (3)   Any person, persons, corporation or corporations violating any
portion of this division (B) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in division (F) below.
(Prior Code, § 10.48.011)
   (C)   Truck tractors without trailers; permitted when. A truck tractor
without a trailer will be allowed to depart from a prescribed truck route and
proceed by the most direct route to the residence of the driver, owner or
operator and park said truck tractor on private property in a designated
parking area such as a driveway, garage and the like. Said truck tractor may
also be parked in front of the said residence on the public street; provided,
it can be done without interfering with traffic. Any truck tractor so parked
shall have its engine turned off. The vehicle shall not be left running once it
is parked. No more than one truck tractor can be parked at any single
residence.
(Prior Code, § 10.48.015)
   (D)   Truck tractors without trailers; permitted to deviate from truck route
to commercial business.
      (1)   A truck tractor without a trailer will be allowed to depart from a
prescribed truck route and proceed by the most direct route to a commercial
establishment in the city. Said truck tractor will be allowed to park in front
of said commercial establishment on the public street; providing that, can be
done without interfering with traffic, or in a parking lot provided by the
commercial establishment; provided that, does not interfere with traffic. Any
truck tractor so parked shall have its engine turned off. The vehicle should
not be left running once it is parked.
      (2)   Any person, persons, corporation or corporations violating any
portion of this schedule shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in division (F) below.
(Prior Code, § 10.48.016)
   (E)   Routes designated. The following streets have been designated as truck
routes for the city:
      (1)   U.S. 69 Bypass extending from the north city limits to the south
city limits:
      (2)   U.S. 54 commencing at the north city limits to the east city limits
by way the Wall Street U.S. 69 Bypass exchange;
      (3)   Third Street west from U.S. 69 Bypass to State Street;
      (4)   State Street north from the intersection of Third and State Streets
to the intersection of Wall and State Streets;
      (5)   Wall Street east from the intersection of State Street and Wall
Street to U.S. 69 Bypass;
      (6)   Humbolt Avenue (Maple Road) as it runs east from the west city
limits to the intersection of National Avenue;
      (7)   Linker Street as it runs from the intersection of Crawford and
Linker Street to National Avenue;
      (8)   National Avenue as it runs from the intersection of Humbolt Avenue/
Market Street and National Avenue north to the city limits;
      (9)   Cooper Street from 23rd Street to 20th Street;
      (10)   23rd Street from U.S. 69 Bypass to Liberty Bell Road;
      (11)   Liberty Bell Road from 23rd Street to Campbell on to Hudson Street
to 69 Highway; and
      (12)   20th Street from U.S. 69 Bypass to Cooper Street.
(Prior Code, § 10.48.020)
   (F)   Penalty for violation. The penalty for violation of this schedule is a
minimum fine of $125 up to and including a maximum fine of $500 per violation,
plus applicable court costs.
(Prior Code, § 10.48.030)
(Ord. 2740, passed - -1979; Ord. 2756, passed - -1980; Ord. 2787, passed - -
1981; Ord. 3262, passed - -2003; Ord. 3293, passed - -2005; Ord. 3318, passed -
-2006; Ord. 3621, passed 12-6-2022; Ord. 3622, passed 12-6-2022; Ord. 3623,
passed 12-6-2022)
SCHEDULE IV. ATV RESTRICTIONS.
   Other than to cross at an appropriately designated intersection or crossing,
it is a violation of this traffic code for a UTV to be operated on any of the
following streets:
   (A)   East Wall Street (U.S. 54 Highway); and
   (B)   U.S. 69 Highway.
(Ord. 3761, passed 3-19-2024)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   INOPERATIVE, ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   PUBLIC LIBRARY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Animal nuisances; offensive premises; diseased, dead animals
   
90.003   At-large animals and fowl
Dogs
   
90.015   Definitions
   
90.016   Registration; procedure; expiration date; deadline
   
90.017   Running at-large
   
90.018   Registration, impoundment or destruction; fees
   
90.019   Dog tax; report and payment to Clerk
   
90.020   Destruction or impoundment when
   
90.021   Poundkeeper
   
90.022   Females running at-large
   
90.023   Vicious dogs or other animals; keeping; destruction
   
90.024   Dangerous animals
   
90.025   Annoying or disturbing dogs
   
90.026   Complaints; filing
   
90.027   Tags; transfer or removal prohibited
   
90.028   Owner liability
   
90.029   Impoundment; interference prohibited
   
90.030   Enforcement
Rabies
   
90.045   Keeping unvaccinated dog prohibited
   
90.046   Vaccination; time limit; certificate required
   
90.047   Keeping and harboring
 
   
90.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any and all types of animals, both domesticated and wild, male and
female, singular and plural.
   AT-LARGE. Off the premises of the owner or custodian of the animal or fowl
and not under the immediate control of the owner or custodian.
   FOWL. Any and all fowl, domesticated and wild, male and female, singular and
plural.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.010) (Ord. 1881, passed - -; Ord. 1891, passed - -; Ord.
1908, passed - -; Ord. 2831, passed - -1982)
§ 90.002 ANIMAL NUISANCES; OFFENSIVE PREMISES; DISEASED, DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Offensive premises. Any person, or persons, who owns, keeps or uses
any yard, pen or place on his or her premises, or premises under his or her
control, within the city, in or upon which any animal or fowl may be kept in
such a manner as to become offensive to any persons residing in the vicinity,
or annoying to the public, is declared to be a common nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.020)
   (B)   Treating diseased animals. It is unlawful for any person to keep or
maintain any building or part thereof, or any place, within 100 feet of any
residence within the corporate limits of the city, where diseased animals are
treated or kept for treatment, and the keeping or maintenance of any building
or part thereof where diseased animals are kept for treatment within 100 feet
of a private residence within the city is declared to be a common nuisance, and
every person who keeps or maintains any such building or part thereof, or any
place, within 100 feet of a private residence within the corporate limits of
the city, where diseased animals are kept for treatment, is declared to be
guilty of keeping and maintaining a common nuisance and shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.040)
   (C)   Dead animals. It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit or leave
in any alley, street, lane or public place, or upon any property within the
corporate limits of the city, any offal or carcass of any dead animal, or any
part thereof, or any other matter which is likely to become offensive or
unwholesome, and the placing, depositing or leaving of any such matter or
substance is declared to be a common nuisance. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this division (C) is declared to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.050)
(Ord. 1881, passed - -; Ord. 1891, passed - -; Ord. 1908, passed - -; Ord.
2831, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.003 AT-LARGE ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   No person owning or having in his or her custody animals or fowl shall
permit the same to go at large to the injury or annoyance of others, nor shall
such animals or fowl be permitted at large on the streets or other public ways
of the city. Such action is declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the
public health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.030) (Ord. 1881, passed - -; Ord. 1891, passed - -; Ord.
1908, passed - -; Ord. 2831, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
90.999
**** DOGS ****
§ 90.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   KEEPING AND HARBORING. Any person who allows any dog or dogs to habitually
remain or be lodged or fed at his or her home, store, yard, enclosure or place.
   MARSHAL or CITY MARSHAL. The Chief of Police of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.010) (Ord. 1750, passed - -; Ord. 2342, passed - -)
§ 90.016 REGISTRATION; PROCEDURE; EXPIRATION DATE; DEADLINE.
   (A)   Required; procedure. No person shall keep a dog in the city after such
dog has reached the age of six months unless that person complies with the
following regulations. The owner, keeper or harborer of any dog shall cause his
or her name, with the name and description of the dog, to be registered with
the city, proof of rabies vaccination, and shall pay each year to the city,
before any dog is registered a registration fee of $3 per dog that is spayed/
neutered or $5 per dog that is not spayed/neutered. They shall keep upon the
neck of each dog the metallic tag that is furnished by the city with the number
and year of registry to be distinctly marked thereon. The city shall keep a
listing of the registry of dogs when registration is made.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.020)
   (B)   Expiration date. All registrations of dogs in the city as provided in
division (A) above will expire on May 31 in each and every year of the
registration of any such dog.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.030)
   (C)   Deadline. The owners or harborers of any dog or dogs within the city
shall have the whole of the month of April in each year within which to
register such dogs, and no arrests shall be made or penalties attached for
failure to register such dog or dogs until after April 30 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.060)
(Ord. 1750, passed - -; Ord. 1962, passed - -; Ord. 2342, passed - -; Ord.
3039, passed - -1992; Ord. 3567, passed 11-3-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.017 RUNNING AT-LARGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner, keeper and harborer of any dog or dogs
within the corporate limits of the city to permit such dog or dogs to run at-
large upon any of the streets, alleys or public grounds of the city, or to run
over or trespass upon the private grounds of other citizens or residents of the
city, and all dogs found running at large in violation of this section shall be
impounded or killed.
   (B)   A dog shall be deemed to be running at-large when not confined on the
premises of the owner, keeper or harborer, within a fenced enclosure or animal
shelter or under the control of a person, whether by lead, cord, leash, rope or
chain; provided, however, that, a dog may be considered confined if on a lead,
rope or chain which is securely fastened or picketed in a manner which is
sufficient to keep the dog on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.040) (Ord. 1750, passed - -; Ord. 2342, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.018 REGISTRATION, IMPOUNDMENT OR DESTRUCTION; FEES.
   (A)   Capture; authority. The Chief of Police shall employ a suitable person
or persons whose duty it shall be to capture all dogs found running at large in
any public place in the city not having a registered collar in compliance with
§ 90.16(A) of this chapter, and to place them in a pound to be provided for
that purpose. If the owner does not appear in 48 hours after such impounding
and claim and register such dog or dogs, then the Chief of Police shall cause
such dog to be killed; provided that, the provisions of this section shall not
apply to dogs now owned or harbored in the city, unless they be found at large
without any owner or master. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to report
and pay over to the City Treasurer, once each month, all moneys collected by
him or her for the registration fees, he or she taking the Treasurer’s receipt
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.050)
   (B)   Chief of Police; duties. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police
in the month of May in each year, to employ sufficient help to have all dogs
within the city registered, captured or killed before June 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.070)
   (C)   Fees. Fees for dog registration, as provided in §
90.016(C) of this chapter, shall be set as follows. For the registration of a
neutered male dog or a spayed female dog, the fee shall be $3; for the
registration of an unneutered male dog or an unspayed female dog, the
registration fee shall be $5; for catching and impounding of each dog, the fee
shall be $7, to be collected from the person redeeming such dog; for receiving
and keeping each dog from the time delivered to the city until redeemed or
destroyed, the poundkeeper shall receive $3 per day, to be collected and taxed
as costs, from the party redeeming the same; for the killing of each dog, the
person performing such service shall receive a fee of not more than $5, to be
paid by the city. All fees collected under this section are to be turned over
to the City Clerk for deposit in the City’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.080)
(Ord. 1750, passed - -; Ord. 2342, passed - -; Ord. 2761, passed - -1980; Ord.
3039, passed - -1992)
§ 90.019 DOG TAX; REPORT AND PAYMENT TO CLERK.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to report and pay over to the
City Clerk once each week, all moneys collected by him or her as dog tax, he or
she taking the Clerk’s receipt therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.090) (Ord. 1750, passed - -)
§ 90.020 DESTRUCTION OR IMPOUNDMENT WHEN.
   The Chief of Police, or any person acting under his or her authority, is
authorized and empowered to destroy any and all dogs over the age of six months
upon which the proper tax has not been paid, or upon whose neck there is no
tax-tag or plate, after April 30 of each year, as provided in this chapter, or
to catch any such dogs and deliver them to the city poundkeeper.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.100) (Ord. 1750, passed - -)
§ 90.021 POUNDKEEPER.
   It shall be the duty of the keeper of the city prison, who is designated as
the keeper of the city pound, to prepare a receptacle in which he or she shall
keep all dogs brought to him or her under the operation of the preceding
sections of this chapter, for the space of 48 hours, and if the owner or keeper
of any such dog does not appear within that time and claim and register such
dog and pay all costs that have accrued, then the poundkeeper, or someone
selected for the purpose, shall kill the dog.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.110) (Ord. 1750, passed - -)
§ 90.022 FEMALES RUNNING AT-LARGE.
   (A)   The running at-large of any female dog or dogs during their breeding
season is declared to be and is contrary to the public welfare and order, and
it is unlawful, notwithstanding the payment of any license or dog tax thereon.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or any of his or her employees are authorized to
impound such female dog during its breeding season and to deliver same over to
the city poundkeeper.
   (C)   When so impounded, such female dog and the owner or keeper thereof
shall be subject to the same liabilities, penalties and fees as provided in
this subchapter for unlicensed dogs.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.120) (Ord. 1750, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.023 VICIOUS DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS; KEEPING; DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor or in any way possess
within the corporate limits of the city:
      (1)   Any warm-blooded, carnivorous or omnivorous, wild or exotic animal
(including, but not limited to, non-human primates, raccoons, skunks, foxes and
wild and exotic cats; but excluding fowl, ferrets and small rodents of
varieties used for laboratory purposes);
      (2)   Any animal having poisonous bites; and/or
      (3)   Any vicious dog which has a tendency or propensity to attack or
otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals without
provocation.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.130)
   (B)   Destruction; when. If, upon the hearing provided for in §
90.022 of this chapter, the Municipal Judge decides that a dog is vicious and
liable to bite and attack persons within the corporate limits of the city or
has bitten or attacked any person, the Municipal Judge shall order and direct
that said dog be killed.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.140)
   (C)   Destruction; where. Whenever the Municipal Judge of the city orders
and directs that any dog be killed because of the dog being vicious or having
bitten or attacked persons, the Chief of Police shall kill or cause the dogs to
be killed wherever the same may be found within the corporate limits of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.150)
(Ord. 1750, passed - -; Ord. 2342, passed - -; Ord. 2959, passed - -1987; Ord.
3567, passed 11-3-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definition.
      (1)   A DANGEROUS ANIMAL, as used in this section, shall mean:
         (a)   Any animal which attacks or bites any human being or domestic
animal or has attacked or bitten a human being or domestic animal;
         (b)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack, cause injury to, or threaten the safety of human beings or domestic
animals;
         (c)   Any animal which in a vicious or threatening manner, approaches
any person in apparent attack upon the person while on the streets, sidewalks
or any public grounds or places, or on private property; or
         (d)   Any animal which because of its size, physical characteristics
and vicious propensities is capable of inflicting serious physical injury or
death on a human being.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no animal shall be
deemed DANGEROUS if any prescribed conduct listed herein took place at a time
when:
         (a)   The person who was the object of such conduct was committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon the premises of the owner or keeper of the
animal;
         (b)   The person who was the object of such conduct was at the time
provoking, teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal;
         (c)   The person who was the object of such conduct was committing or
attempting to commit a crime; or
         (d)   The animal who was the object of such conduct was provoking,
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal.
      (3)   Any dog owned by governmental or law enforcement agencies when used
in the service of those agencies, shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section.
   (B)   Notice. In the event that the animal control officer has probable
cause to believe that an animal is dangerous, as defined by division (A) above,
a notice to appear in Municipal Court will be issued to the animal’s owner.
   (C)   Hearing. At the hearing in Municipal Court, the city shall have the
burden of proof to show by clear and convincing evidence that the animal is
dangerous pursuant to division (A) above and that the animal is being kept or
harbored within the city limits. The parties may present relevant evidence at
the hearing as to whether the animal is dangerous and as to the appropriate
disposition of the animal.
   (D)   Determination. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Municipal Judge
shall determine whether the animal is dangerous pursuant to division (A) above.
If a determination is made that the animal is dangerous, the Municipal Judge
shall decide whether:
      (1)   The animal shall be destroyed;
      (2)   The animal shall be removed from the city under appropriate
conditions; or
      (3)   The owner or keeper shall be allowed to keep the animal subject to
the provisions of §
90.023(B) of this chapter.
   (E)   Vicious animal. A VICIOUS ANIMAL is defined as any animal that has
caused or attempted to cause serious injury to any person or domesticated
animal or has maimed or killed any person or domesticated animal. All dangerous
animals shall have for identification: city tags and a microchip implant. The
owner or keeper of the dangerous animal shall be responsible for all costs
associated with the identification requirements. All canines in this category
shall obtain these identifiers upon the animal reaching 120 days of age.
   (F)   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit a dangerous dog to go outside
its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a leash no longer
than four feet in length. No person shall permit a dangerous dog to be kept on
a chain, rope or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen unless a person
is in physical control of the leash. Such dogs may not be leashed to inanimate
objects such as trees, posts, buildings and the like. In addition, all
dangerous dogs on a leash outside the animal’s kennel must be muzzled by a
muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from biting persons or other
animals.
   (G)   Confinement. All dangerous dogs shall be securely confined indoors or
in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and
muzzled. Such pen, kennel or structure must have secure sides and a secure top
attached to the sides. All structures used to confine dangerous dogs must be
locked with a key or combination lock when such animals are within the
structure. Such structure must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the
sides of the pen, or the sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground no
less than two feet. All structures erected to house dangerous dogs must comply
with all zoning and building regulations of the city. All such structures must
be adequately lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   (H)   Confinement indoors.
      (1)   No dangerous dog may be kept on a porch, patio or in any part of a
house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such building on its own
volition.
      (2)   In addition, no such animal may be kept in a house or structure
when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are the only
obstacle preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
   (I)   Signs; muzzling.
      (1)   A vicious animal shall be kept as required under this code.
      (2)   Dangerous animals shall also have “dangerous animal” signs posted
on the from and rear of the property and if the dangerous animal is being
walked outside the home, it must be muzzled and restrained on a leash of no
longer than four feel in length and of sufficient tensile strength to restrain
the animal.
   (J)   Liability insurance. Dangerous animal owners shall carry no less than
$250,000 liability insurance for each dog deemed dangerous. The owner of said
animal shall file a copy of said certificate of insurance with the city, with
said copy to reflect the amount of coverage and the dates of coverage.
   (K)   Location. No dangerous animal may be maintained within 400 feet of a
school, park or public playground.
   (L)   Impounding.
      (1)   An animal that has been deemed dangerous in Municipal Court, and
that has caused any serious injury to, or killed any person or domesticated
animal shall be impounded by the city.
      (2)   The animal shall then be euthanized and disposed of in a humane
manner by order of the Municipal Court Judge or the Chief of Police and, if no
proof of rabies vaccination is available, the head will be sent for proper
testing all at the owner’s expense.
   (M)   Age limits. No person under the age of 18 shall own or possess any
dangerous animal within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.135) (Ord. 3567, passed 11-3-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.025 ANNOYING OR DISTURBING DOGS.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep within the city any dog that is in the
habit of coming out in the street to follow after and bark at persons or
vehicles passing by, or to keep any dog that worries or bites any fowl or
animal, or to keep any dog which by loud, frequent and habitual barking,
howling or yelping annoys or disturbs any neighborhood or person.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.160) (Ord. 1750, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.026 COMPLAINTS; FILING.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and all police officers to file
complaints against all persons keeping or harboring any dog or dogs in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.170) (Ord. 1750, passed - -)
§ 90.027 TAGS; TRANSFER OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who is the owner or keeper of any dog in
the city to allow or permit any such dog to wear any other tag or check than
the identical one issued by the Clerk of the city for such dog.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.180)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed the
collar, check or tag from any dog in the city without the consent of the owner
or keeper thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.190)
(Ord. 1750, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.028 OWNER LIABILITY.
   The owner, keeper or harborer of any dog or dogs which trespass upon and do
injury to public property or to the private property of any other person, and
who fails to restore such injury, shall be liable for all damages caused by
such unlawful trespass of said dog or dogs and, in addition thereto, shall be
subject to the penalties provided for in §
90.999 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.200) (Ord. 2342, passed - -)
§ 90.029 IMPOUNDMENT; INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to obstruct, hinder or prevent the
impounding of any dog running at large contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, or to break open, destroy or injure the city dog pound, door, gate
or enclosure thereof, or to take or attempt to take therefrom a dog therein
impounded without first paying the fee and costs as provided in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.210) (Ord. 2342, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.030 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city, any person or
persons specially appointed by the Chief of Police and the custodian of the
city dump to enforce this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.220) (Ord. 2342, passed - -)
**** RABIES ****
§ 90.045 KEEPING UNVACCINATED DOG PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The keeping or harboring of any dog within the city that does not have
an active vaccination for rabies is declared to be contrary to the public
welfare and unlawful, notwithstanding the payment of any license or dog tax
that has been or may hereafter be paid.
(Prior Code, § 6.12.010)
   (B)   The Chief of Police or any person acting under his or her authority is
authorized and empowered to destroy any and all dugs which have not been
vaccinated according to the terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.12.040)
(Ord. 1975, passed - -1936) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.046 VACCINATION; TIME LIMIT; CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, keeper or harborer of any unvaccinated dog or dogs within
the city is given 15 days from the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this subchapter to have the dog or dogs vaccinated for rabies.
(Prior Code, § 6.12.020)
   (B)   It is made the duty of any owner, keeper or harborer of any dog or
dogs within the city, when having a dog vaccinated for rabies, to obtain a
certificate showing the date of the vaccination and by whom the same was made.
(Prior Code, § 6.12.030)
(Ord. 1975, passed - -1936) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.047 KEEPING AND HARBORING.
   Any person who allows any dog or dogs to habitually remain or be lodged or
fed at his or her home, store, yard, enclosure or place shall be deemed and
considered as keeping and harboring the same within the meaning of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.12.050) (Ord. 1975, passed - -1936)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter is deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be penalized as
provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.060)
   (B)   Any person who is convicted in Police Court of violating any provision
of §§
90.015 through
90.030 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.230)
   (C)   Any person owning, keeping or harboring any dog in the city in
violation of the provisions of §§ 90.45 through
90.047 of this chapter or who violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6.12.060)
(Ord. 1750, passed - -1924; Ord. 1881, passed - -; Ord. 1891, passed - -; Ord.
1908, passed - -; Ord. 1975, passed - -1936; Ord. 2342, passed - -; Ord. 2831,
passed - -1982)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Water fluoridation; funds
   
91.002   Smoking in public
Nuisances
   
91.015   Nuisances enumerated
   
91.016   Public officer
   
91.017   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
91.018   Notice; contents
   
91.019   Abatement
   
91.020   Extension of time to comply
   
91.021   Costs assessed
   
91.022   Public nuisances
Weed Control
   
91.035   Weeds to be removed
   
91.036   Definitions
   
91.037   Public officer; notice to remove
   
91.038   Abatement; assessment of costs
   
91.039   Right of entry
   
91.040   Unlawful interference
   
91.041   Noxious weeds
 
   
91.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 91.001 WATER FLUORIDATION; FUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receiving the consent and approval of the state’s Board of Health
and until further direction of the governing body, the Water Department is
authorized and directed to provide the means and to proceed with the
introduction of sufficient fluoride to raise the total fluoride concentration
in the finished water to one part of fluoride to every million parts of water
being distributed in the water supply system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.010)
   (B)   Funds for fluoridation shall be provided from Water Department funds.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.020)
(Ord. 2131, passed - -1952)
§ 91.002 SMOKING IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. The word
“shall” is always mandatory.
      CITY. The City of Fort Scott.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.010)
   (B)   Smoking prohibited in specified places. No person shall smoke or carry
a lighted cigar, cigarette or pipe in:
      (1)   City Hall, that building housing the city administrative offices;
      (2)   Public Safety Building, that building housing the Police and Fire
Departments;
      (3)   Miscellaneous public buildings, all buildings owned and occupied by
city employees; and/or
      (4)   Vehicles, any car, truck or equipment owned by the city carrying
people.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.020)
   (C)   Placarding required. The supervisor, or his or her agent, having
control of premises upon which smoking is prohibited by or under the authority
of this section, shall conspicuously display upon the premises a sign reading:
“SMOKING PROHIBITED BY LAW”.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.030)
   (D)   Violation of sign. No person shall smoke in any properly placarded
place, nor shall any person remove any placard required to be erected by or
under the authority of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.040)
(Ord. 3175, passed - -1999) Penalty, see §
91.999
**** NUISANCES ****
§ 91.015 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any nuisance within the
city as defined, without limitation, as follows:
   (A)   Filth, excrement, lumber, rocks, dirt, cans, paper, trash, metal or
any other offensive or disagreeable thing or substance thrown or left or
deposited upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park, public or private
enclosure or lot whether vacant or occupied;
   (B)   All dead animals not removed within 24 hours after death;
   (C)   Any place of structure or substance which emits or causes any
offensive, disagreeable or nauseous odors;
   (D)   All stagnant ponds or pools of water;
   (E)   All grass or weeds or other unsightly vegetation not usually
cultivated or grown for domestic use or to be marketed or for ornamental
purposes;
   (F)   All furniture (except for that specifically constructed and intended
for use outside a dwelling and more commonly referred to as patio furniture.
lawn furniture, picnic tables or chairs and the like), including, but not
limited to, refrigerators, freezers, heating and cooking stoves, kitchen
ranges, ovens, furnaces, laundry and dishwashing machines, dryers, disconnected
air conditioning units, televisions, hot water heaters, trash compactors,
toilet bowls, water closets, sinks, lavatories, tubs and showers, if stored,
placed or set upon the front, side or rear yards, or on any open porch, in any
attached carport, in any freestanding carport, or in any garage or shed that is
without doors to conceal such items;
   (G)   All articles or things whatsoever caused, kept, maintained or
permitted by any person to the injury, annoyance or inconvenience of the public
or of, any neighborhood; and
   (H)   Any fence, structure, thing or substance placed upon or being upon any
street, sidewalk, alley or public ground so as to obstruct the same, except as
permitted by the laws of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.010) (Ord. 3133, passed - -1996; Ord. 3411, passed 4-3-
2012) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.016 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The City Manager shall designate a public officer to be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this subchapter. Other appropriate personnel
of the city may also be designated to enforce this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.020) (Ord. 3133, passed - -1996)
§ 91.017 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by any Health Official, Chief of Police,
Fire Chief or state social worker. The public officer may make such inquiry and
inspection when he or she observes conditions which appear to constitute a
nuisance. Upon making any inquiry and inspection, the public officer shall make
a written report of findings.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.030) (Ord. 3133, passed - -1996)
§ 91.018 NOTICE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Any person, corporation, partnership or association found by the
public officer to be in violation of §
91.015 of this chapter shall be served a notice of such violation. The notice
shall be served by one of the three following methods:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Service by restricted mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.040)
   (B)   The notice shall state the condition(s) which is (are) in violation of
§
91.015 of this chapter. The notice shall also inform the person, corporation,
partnership or association that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from the date of serving the
notice to abate the condition(s) in violation of §
91.015 of this chapter;
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from the date of serving the notice
to request an extension of time to abate from, the public officer of the matter
as provided by §
91.015 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within
the time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
91.999 of this chapter and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as
provided by §
91.019 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.050)
(Ord. 3133, passed - -1996)
§ 91.019 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
91.999 of this chapter, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of
this section in the following manner. If a person to whom a notice has been
sent pursuant to §
91.018(A) of this chapter has neither alleviated the conditions causing the
alleged violation the public officer may present a resolution to the governing
body for adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to
abate the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage
of the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred
by the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
91.021 of this chapter. A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the
person in violation in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Service by restricted mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (B)   The city may also initiate court proceedings to force the abatement of
nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.070) (Ord. 3133, passed - -1996)
§ 91.020 EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLY.
   The public officer may grant a reasonable extension of time to comply with
the nuisance abatement prior to issuing a complaint in Municipal Court pursuant
to §
91.999 of this chapter presenting a resolution to the governing body for
abatement, as provided in §
91.019 of this chapter; provided that, a good faith effort is being made to
abating the nuisance. Prior to adoption of the presented resolution, the
governing body may grant a reasonable extension of time to abate the
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.080) (Ord. 3133, passed - -1996)
§ 91.021 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates the nuisance pursuant to §
91.019 of this chapter, the cost of abatement shall be charged against the lot
or parcel of ground on which the nuisance was located. The city may also obtain
a judgment against the person or entity to cover the case of abating the
nuisance. The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other taxes to the
county clerk, certify the costs as provided in this section. The County Clerk
shall extend the same on the tax roll and it shall be collected by the County
Treasurer and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.090) (Ord. 3133, passed - -1996)
§ 91.022 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   A public nuisance is an act or omission that obstructs, damages or
inconveniences the rights of the community. It shall be unlawful for any person
to create or commit a public nuisance in or upon any city park, city street,
city right-of-way, city alleyway, public parking lot, public sidewalk, public
building or any other place of public access unless authorized by the City
Manager in a designated area.
   (B)   Examples of a public nuisance include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Depositing feces and or urine, be it human or animal;
      (2)   Being noticeably intoxicated due to excessive drug or alcohol use;
      (3)   Making living accommodations or preparations to sleep, sleeping,
erecting a tent or storing belongings, among other activities;
      (4)   Yelling, shouting or screaming in a manner that causes members of
the public alarm or concern;
      (5)   Loud or disruptive noises; and/or
      (6)   Beg or solicit for money or food.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.100) (Ord. 3594, passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
**** WEED CONTROL ****
§ 91.035 WEEDS TO BE REMOVED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, lessee, tenant or other person
occupying or having charge or control of any premises to permit weeds to remain
upon said premises or any area between the property lines of said premises and
the centerline of any adjacent street or alley, including, but not specifically
limited to, sidewalks, streets, alley, easements, right-of-way and all other
areas, public or private. All weeds, as hereinafter defined, are hereby
declared a nuisance and are subject to abatement as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.010) (Ord. 3435, passed 1-7-2014) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.036 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CALENDAR YEAR. The period of time beginning January 1 and ending December 31
of the same year.
   WEEDS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Brush and woody vines shall be classified as weeds;
      (2)   Weeds and indigenous grasses which may attain such large growth as
to become, when dry, a fire menace to adjacent improved property;
      (3)   Weeds which bear or may bear seeds of a downy or wingy nature;
      (4)   Weeds which are located in an area which harbors rats, insects,
animals, reptiles or any other creature which either may or does constitute a
menace to health, public safety or welfare; and
      (5)   Weeds and indigenous grasses on or about residential property
which, because of its height, has a blighting influence on the neighborhood.
Any such weeds and indigenous grasses shall be presumed to be blighting if they
exceed eight inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.020) (Ord. 3435, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 91.037 PUBLIC OFFICER; NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   The City Manager shall designate a public officer to be charged with
the administration and enforcement of this subchapter. The public officer or an
authorized assistant shall notify in writing the owner, occupant or agent in
charge of any premises in the city upon which weeds exist in violation of this
subchapter, by mail or by personal service, once per calendar year. Such notice
shall include the following:
      (1)   The owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property is in
violation of the city’s weed control law;
      (2)   The owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property is ordered
to cut the weeds within ten days of the receipt of the notice;
      (3)   The owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property may request
a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative within
five days of the receipt of notice;
      (4)   If the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property does not
cut the weeds, the city or its authorized agent will cut the weeds and assess
the cost of the cutting, including a reasonable administrative fee, against the
owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property;
      (5)   The owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property will be
given an opportunity to pay the assessment and, if it is not paid, will be
added to the property tax as a special assessment;
      (6)   No further notice shall be given prior to removal of weeds during
the current calendar year; and
      (7)   The public officer should be contacted if there are any questions
regarding the order.
   (B)   If there is a change in the record owner of title to property
subsequent to the giving of notice pursuant to this section, the city may not
recover any costs or levy an assessment for the costs incurred by the cutting
or destruction of weeds on such property unless the new record owner of title
to such property is provided notice as required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.030) (Ord. 3435, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 91.038 ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   Upon the expiration of ten days after receipt of the notice required
by §
91.038 of this chapter, and in the event that the owner, occupant or agent in
charge of the premises shall neglect or fail to comply with the requirements of
§
91.035 of this chapter, the public officer or an authorized assistant shall
cause to be cut, destroyed and/or removed all such weeds and abate the nuisance
created thereby at any time during the current calendar year.
   (B)   The public officer or an authorized assistant shall give notice to the
owner, occupant or agent in charge of the premises by mail of the costs of
abatement of the nuisance. The notice shall state that payment of the costs is
due and payable within 30 days following receipt of the notice. Such costs to
be assessed be a flat fee of $100.
   (C)   If the costs of removal or abatement remain unpaid after 30 days
following receipt of notice, a record of the costs of cutting and destruction
and/or removal shall be certified to the City Clerk who shall cause such costs
to be assessed against the particular lot or piece of land on which such weeds
were so removed, and against such lots or pieces of land in front of or
abutting on such street or alley on which such weeds were so removed. The City
Clerk shall certify the assessment to the County Clerk at the time other
special assessments are certified for spreading on the tax rolls of the county.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.040) (Ord. 3435, passed 1-7-2014; Ord. 3488, passed 12-13-
2016; Ord. 3576, passed 4-6-2021; Ord. 3608, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 91.039 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer, and the public officer’s authorized assistants,
employees, contracting agents or other representatives are hereby expressly
authorized to enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of cutting, destroyed and/or removing such weeds in a manner not
inconsistent with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.050) (Ord. 3435, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 91.040 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or to attempt to
prevent the public officer or the public officer’s authorized representative
from entering upon any such lot or piece of ground or from proceeding with such
cutting and destruction.
   (B)   Such interference shall constitute an ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.060) (Ord. 3435, passed 1-7-2014) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.041 NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall affect or impair the rights of the city
under the provisions of K.S.A. Chapter 2, Article 13, relating to the control
and eradication or certain noxious weeds.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.070) (Ord. 3435, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
91.002 of this chapter is subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.050)
   (C)   Should the person, corporation, partnership or association fail to
comply with the notice to abate the nuisance or request a hearing, per §§
91.015 through
91.022 of this chapter, the public officer may file a complaint in the
Municipal Court of the city against such person, corporation, partnership or
association and, upon conviction of any violation of provisions of §
91.015 of this chapter, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100 or be
imprisoned not to exceed 30 days or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues after notice has been served
shall constitute an additional or separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.060)
(Ord. 3133, passed - -1996; Ord. 3175, passed - -1999)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.001   Definitions
   
92.002   Renting or selling; prohibited acts
   
92.003   Loans; prohibited acts
   
92.004   Membership in housing service or organization; prohibited acts
   
92.005   Preference permitted when; conditions
   
92.006   Applicability
 
   
92.999   Penalty
§ 92.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.010) (Ord. 2512, passed - -1973)
§ 92.002 RENTING OR SELLING; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Except as exempted in this chapter, it is unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex or
national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex or
national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person, because of race, color, religion, sex or
national origin, that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available; and
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.020) (Ord. 2512, passed - -1973; Ord. 2608, passed - -1976)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.003 LOANS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Except as exempted in this chapter, it is unlawful for any bank, building
and loan association, insurance company or other corporation, association, firm
or enterprise whose business consists in whole or in part in the making of
commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a
person applying therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing,
improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling; or to discriminate against any
person in the fixing of such loan or other financial assistance because of the
race, color, religion, sex or national origin of such person or of any person
associated with him or her in connection with such loan or other financial
assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance, or of
the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.030) (Ord. 2512, passed - -1973; Ord. 2608, passed - -1976)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.004 MEMBERSHIP IN HOUSING SERVICE OR ORGANIZATION; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Except as exempted in this chapter, it is unlawful to deny any person access
to or membership or participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate
brokers’ organization or other service, organization or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against any
person in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation,
on account of race, color, religion, sex or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.040) (Ord. 2512, passed - -1973; Ord. 2608, passed - -1976)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.005 PREFERENCE PERMITTED WHEN; CONDITIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society, or any non- profit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religions is restricted on account of race, color, sex or national origin; nor
shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
giving preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.050) (Ord. 2512, passed - -1973; Ord. 2608, passed - -1976)
§ 92.006 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided that,
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further that, in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (A)(1) shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided
further that, such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned, or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time; provided further that, the sale or rental of any such single-family house
shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is
sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or
salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesperson or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.002 of this chapter, but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by not more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (B)   A person shall be deemed to be in the business of selling or renting
dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.060) (Ord. 2512, passed - -1973)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.070) (Ord. 2512, passed - -1973)
CHAPTER 93: INOPERATIVE, ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.001   Definitions
   
93.002   Findings
   
93.003   Enclosure required within city
   
93.004   Inapplicability; when
   
93.005   Presumption of inoperability; conditions
   
93.006   Violation; notice; time limit for compliance
 
   
93.999   Penalty
§ 93.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE. A vehicle in a condition of being junked, wrecked, wholly or
partially dismantled, discarded, abandoned or unable to perform the functions
or purposes for which it was originally constructed.
   VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, tractor or motorcycle which, as originally
built, contained an engine, regardless of whether it contains an engine at any
other time.
(Prior Code, § 10.32.010) (Ord. 2454, passed - -1971)
§ 93.002 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Commissioners of the city finds that junked, wrecked,
dismantled, inoperative, discarded or abandoned vehicles in and upon real
property within the city is a matter affecting the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the city for the following reasons:
   (A)   Such vehicles serve as a breeding ground for flies, mosquitoes, rats
and other insects and rodents;
   (B)   They are a danger to persons, particularly children, because of broken
glass, sharp metal protrusions, insecure mounting on blocks, jacks or supports,
and because they are a ready source of fire and explosions;
   (C)   They encourage pilfering and theft, and constitute a blighting
influence upon the area in which they are located, thereby causing a loss in
property value to surrounding property; and
   (D)   They constitute a fire hazard in that they block access for the fire
equipment to adjacent buildings and structures.
(Prior Code, § 10.32.020) (Ord. 2454, passed - -1971)
§ 93.003 ENCLOSURE REQUIRED WITHIN CITY.
   Except as provided in this chapter, it is unlawful for any person,
partnership, corporation or its agent, either as owner, lessee, tenant or
occupant of any lot or land within the city to park, store or deposit, or
permit to be parked, stored or deposited thereon, an inoperable vehicle, unless
it is enclosed in a garage or other building.
(Prior Code, § 10.32.030) (Ord. 2454, passed - -1971) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.004 INAPPLICABILITY; WHEN.
   The provisions of §
93.003 of this chapter shall not apply to any person, firm or corporation or
its agent who is conducting a business enterprise in compliance with existing
zoning regulations or who places such vehicles behind screening of sufficient
size, strength and density to screen such vehicles from the view of the public
using the streets and sidewalks, and to prohibit ready access to such vehicles
by children; provided, however, that, nothing in this section shall authorize
the maintenance of a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 10.32.040) (Ord. 2454, passed - -1971)
§ 93.005 PRESUMPTION OF INOPERABILITY; CONDITIONS.
   Any one of the following conditions shall raise the presumption that a
vehicle is inoperable:
   (A)   Absence of an effective registration plate upon such vehicle;
   (B)   Placement of the vehicle or parts thereof upon jacks, blocks, chains
or other supports; and/or
   (C)   Absence of one or more parts of the vehicle necessary for the lawful
operation of the vehicle upon the streets and highways.
(Prior Code, § 10.32.050) (Ord. 2454, passed - -1971)
§ 93.006 VIOLATION; NOTICE; TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLIANCE.
   Whenever an informal complaint is made to the Chief of Police or notice is
given to such officer of the existence of an apparent violation of this
chapter, he or she shall within ten days thereafter cause to be served upon the
person in possession or the owner of the real property upon which such
inoperable vehicle is located a written notice. Such notice shall inform such
person of the violation and direct that he or she take action within ten days
after receipt of the notice to comply with the provisions of this chapter. In
the event such person fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter
within such time, he or she shall be liable for penalties as provided for in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.32.060) (Ord. 2454, passed - -1971)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership or corporation violating the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.32.070) (Ord. 2454, passed - -1971)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Fishing on City Lakes
   
94.001   City lakes
   
94.002   Size limit
   
94.003   Catch limits
   
94.004   License required
   
94.005   Prohibited fishing
Gunn Park
   
94.020   Camping
   
94.021   Shelter houses
Lake Fort Scott
   
94.035   Definitions
   
94.036   Designation; name
   
94.037   Extension of jurisdiction and authority
   
94.038   Limits of city liability
   
94.039   Boat licenses
   
94.040   Refuse or excrement deposit prohibited
   
94.041   Fishing; fees; compliance
   
94.042   Swimming
   
94.043   Hunting; discharge of firearm prohibited
   
94.044   Designated anchorages
   
94.045   Camping privileges and fees
   
94.046   Shoreline extensions
   
94.047   Glass containers prohibited
   
94.048   Property ownership changes; city to be notified
   
94.049   Sewer district
   
94.050   Fishing area on shoreline
   
94.051   Direction of lake travel
   
94.052   Skiing limitations
Rock Creek Lake
   
94.065   Fishing permitted; set, trot, limb or throw lines prohibited
   
94.066   Boat licensing
   
94.067   Closure; no refund of fees
   
94.068   Camping privileges and fees
   
94.069   Prohibited acts
   
94.070   Hunting; discharge of firearm prohibited
 
   
94.999   Penalty
**** FISHING ON CITY LAKES ****
§ 94.001 CITY LAKES.
   This subchapter shall apply to fishing regulations on Lake Fort Scott, Rock
Creek Lake, Fern Lake, West Lake and Fort Scott Community College Lake.
(Prior Code, § 12.36.005) (Ord. 3037, passed - -1992; Ord. 3073, passed - -
1993)
§ 94.002 SIZE LIMITS.
   At any lake owned by the city, it is unlawful for any person to take,
intentionally injure or have in his or her possession any channel catfish under
18 inches in length, any bass under 15 inches in length or any walleyed pike
under 18 inches in length.
(Prior Code, § 12.36.010) (Ord. 2641, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.003 CATCH LIMITS.
   (A)   At any lake owned by the city, during each 24-hour period, no person
shall take, or have in his or her possession, more than the catch and size
limits posted for each lake.
(Prior Code, § 12.36.020)
   (B)   No person may catch and retain more than two trout in a 24-hour period
from the Gunn Park Lakes. Persons are specifically prohibited from catching and
releasing trout.
(Prior Code, § 12.36.021)
(Ord. 2641, passed - -1977; Ord. 3018, passed - -1990; Ord. 3029, passed - -
1991; Ord. 3037, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.004 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All persons will be required to purchase a fishing license from the city and
pay the current fees in place at the time of purchase thereof for both an
annual fishing license and a short-term fishing license.
(Prior Code, § 12.36.022) (Ord. 3018, passed - -1990; Ord. 3029, passed - -
1991; Ord. 3037, passed - -1992; Ord. 3055, passed - -1992; Ord. 3073, passed -
-1993) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.005 PROHIBITED FISHING.
   All fishing is prohibited in the city rearing pond without written
permission from the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.36.025) (Ord. 3037, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
94.999
**** GUNN PARK ****
§ 94.020 CAMPING.
   (A)   There shall be designated camping areas created by the City Commission
that shall be posted at Gunn Park. There shall also be established and created
a system allowing for the reservation and use of camping spaces at Gunn Park.
Any camping space may be reserved for a period of 14 days with the permit
issued for the utilization of said space. Reservations can be obtained by
calling the City Office or through a designated representative of the city.
   (B)   There shall be established a fee system which shall be adopted by the
City Commission and provide the authorized fees. All fees must be paid in
advance. Unless a space is reserved and paid, the occupant of that space must
immediately vacate the property upon request.
   (C)   Fees for RV camping spots are:
      (1)   Water and electric sites: $20 per night; and
      (2)   Fees for tent camping (primitive): $5 per night.
(Prior Code, § 12.25.010) (Ord. 3606, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 94.021 SHELTER HOUSES.
   (A)   Reservation system. The shelter house reservation system at Gunn Park
may be utilized from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Shelter houses may be reserved by
contacting City Hall. Shelters are not rented to be slept in overnight.
(Prior Code, § 12.40.010)
   (B)   Priority. All shelter houses will be reserved on a first come-first
served basis. Once a reservation is made, it must be confirmed by payment in
full of the fee for reserving said shelter house within 48 hours after
reservation is made.
(Prior Code, § 12.40.020)
   (C)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   The following fee schedule is established on the shelter houses at
Gunn Park:
 
Shelter houses #1 and #4 (open shelters)                           $20 per day
Shelter house #3 (enclosed shelter, no air conditioning or heat)   $25 per day
Shelter houses #2 and #6 (enclosed with heat and air conditioning) $30 per day
Shelter houses #5 and #7 (enclosed with heat and air conditioning) $35 per day
 
      (2)   All shelters must be paid for prior to use.
(Prior Code, § 12.40.030)
(Ord. 3083, passed - -1993; Ord. 3450, passed 12-16-2014; Ord. 3607, passed 4-
5-2022; Ord. 3753, passed 8-15-2023) Penalty, see §
94.999
**** LAKE FORT SCOTT ****
§ 94.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BOURBON COUNTY RESIDENT. Any person or his spouse or minor son and daughter,
residing at home, who owns any real estate in Bourbon County or at a leased
lake lot at Lake Fort Scott that contains a dwelling thereon.
   MOTORBOAT. Any vessel propelled principally by machinery, but shall not
include a vessel which has a valid marine document issued by the United States
Coast Guard or any federal agency successor thereto.
   OPERATE. To navigate or otherwise use a vessel.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, having the property in or title to
a vessel.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association or other
entity.
   ROWBOAT. Any vessel propelled exclusively by oars or paddles, and includes
canoes.
   SAILBOAT. Any vessel equipped for propulsion by sail.
   VESSEL. Every description of water-craft other than a seaplane on the water,
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.010) (Ord. 2584, passed - -1975; Ord. 2712, passed - -
1979)
§ 94.036 DESIGNATION; NAME.
   All of the land heretofore acquired by and belonging to the city and located
on portions of Sections 14, 15, 22, 23 and 26, Township 26, Range 24, Bourbon
County, Kansas, on which a dam has been erected and a water-storage reservoir
created, be and the same is named, “Lake Fort Scott”, and is referred to in
this subchapter as the “lake”.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.020) (Ord. 2584, passed - -1975)
§ 94.037 EXTENSION OF JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY.
   The police jurisdiction and the authority of the city is extended to include
the lake, and all ordinances of the city shall apply to acts and conduct of any
person thereon to the same extent as though the lake were located within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.030) (Ord. 2584, passed - -1975)
§ 94.038 LIMITS OF CITY LIABILITY.
   The public shall be permitted the lawful, sanitary and orderly use of the
lake, as provided in this subchapter. All persons using the lake do so entirely
at their own risk so far as the city is concerned, and such persons are warned
that the city does not maintain the lake for any particular purpose, nor
represent that it is safe to use vessels thereon.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.040) (Ord. 2584, passed - -1975)
§ 94.039 BOAT LICENSES.
   (A)   Motorboat license; application; fee. A license fee for the operation
of a motorboat shall be paid to the City Clerk on an annual basis. The yearly
license fee for all persons for motorboats of less than 25 horsepower shall be
$15, and for motors of 25 horsepower or more, $25. The amount of horsepower
shall be determined by the manufacturer’s ratings.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.050)
   (B)   License; temporary fee.
      (1)   Persons not desiring to buy an annual license fee shall be
permitted to purchase a temporary license upon the same terms and conditions as
the annual license for a period of two days. The fee for a temporary license
shall be $5 for motors of less than 25 horsepower and $10 for motors of 25
horsepower or more.
      (2)   Persons who are engaged in the business of selling motorboats may
obtain a yearly license which would allow the testing of such motorboats on
Lake Fort Scott between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. The fee for such
license shall be $75 per year.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.060)
   (C)   Rowboat license; application; fee. Persons desiring to operate a
rowboat on the lake shall make application to the City Clerk and obtain a
license therefor and the annual license fee shall be $6.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.070)
   (D)   Sailboat license; application; fee. Persons desiring to operate a
sailboat on the lake shall make application to the City Clerk for a license on
the same form prescribed for the application for a motorboat license. Such
license is required before the operation of any sailboat. The annual license
fee shall be $15.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.080)
   (E)   License expiration; to be aboard vessel. All licenses issued under
this subchapter shall expire on December 31 of each year, regardless of the
date of issuance. The license shall be aboard the vessel at all times when it
is to be operated.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.090)
   (F)   Compliance with state regulation required. It is unlawful for any
person to operate a vessel on the lake in violation of any of the applicable
provisions of K.S.A. Chapter 32, Article 11, or in violation of any of the
applicable rules and regulations adopted by the state’s Department of Wildlife
and Parks pursuant to the provisions of said statute.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.100)
   (G)   Boating; closure; no refund of fees. The lake may be closed to boating
at any time and for any period of time for any reason deemed advisable by the
governing body of the city. The licenses authorized in this subchapter are
conditioned on this provision, and no refund will be made to licensees in the
event of such closure.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.110)
   (H)   Additional regulations; posting. The city reserves the right to make
additional rules and regulations concerning boating on the lake, which shall be
binding upon licensees upon the posting of printed copies of such rules and
regulations at the lake.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.120)
   (I)   Operation limited in certain areas.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motorboat on the lake south of a line
beginning at a point where the west lines of Lots 24 and 25, Block E-2, Lake
Fort Scott Lots adjoin, and extending in a straight line and in a westerly
direction to a point on the west bank of the lake, designated by a marker
installed by the city, for water skiing or any similar activity.
      (2)   In the area of the lake, south of the line designated in division
(I)(1) above, no person shall operate a motorboat or other vessel:
         (a)   Without reducing the speed of the vessel so as to prevent wash
or wake from the vessel causing damage or unnecessary inconvenience to the
occupants of the area or other vessels; and
         (b)   Without reducing the speed of the vessel to five mph or less.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motorboat or other vessel close to
swimming areas, moored boats or vessels engaged in fishing, servicing buoys or
markings or similar activities, without reducing the speed of the vessel so as
to prevent wash or wake from the vessel causing damage or unnecessary
inconvenience to the occupants of the area or other vessels.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.170)
(Ord. 2584, passed - -1975; Ord. 2595, passed - -1975; Ord. 2712, passed - -
1979; Ord. 2835, passed - -1982; Ord. 2956, passed - -1987; Ord. 3054, passed -
-1992; Ord. 3620, passed 11-15-2022) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.040 REFUSE OR EXCREMENT DEPOSIT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall empty or throw refuse, garbage, rubbish or waste of any kind
in or on the lake, and no human excrement shall be deposited or discharged into
the lake.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.130) (Ord. 2584, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.041 FISHING; FEE; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Compliance; trot, limb, throw lines. Fishing in compliance with the
laws of the state and with all applicable rules and regulations as established
by the state’s Department of Wildlife and Parks and the city, as the same may
be amended from lime to lime, shall be permitted on Lake Fort Scott. No trot,
limb or throw lines shall be used in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.140)
   (B)   Yearly frontage fees. That the yearly frontage fee for all lots at
Lake Fort Scott shall be $150 per year to be pro-rated per month for the year
2015 and in 2016 payable in one lump sum due on January 1 of each year on each
assigned lot and every year thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.150)
   (C)   Closure; no refund of fees. The lake may be closed to fishing at any
time and for any period of time for any reason deemed advisable by the
governing body of the city. The licenses authorized under this subchapter are
conditioned on this provision, and no refund will be made to licensees in the
event of such closure.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.160)
(Ord. 2584, passed - -1975; Ord. 3451, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 94.042 SWIMMING.
   (A)   Swimming is permitted, except where prohibited. All persons swimming
in the lake do so entirely at their own risk so far as the city is concerned.
No one shall swim before the hour of 7:00 a.m. and no one shall swim after the
hour of 9:00 p.m.
   (B)   Swimming at Lake Fort Scott is permitted only within the marked area
of the public beach, within 25 feet of any private dock or within 25 feet of
any boat anchored on the south side of the buoys located at the southern end of
Lake Fort Scott, more commonly referred to as the “fishing area”. Swimming in
these areas is permitted only between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
Swimming in all other areas and at all other times is prohibited. All persons
swimming in the lake do so entirely at their own risk.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.180) (Ord. 2584, passed - -1975; Ord. 2584, passed - -
1975; Ord. 2765, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.043 HUNTING; DISCHARGE OF FIREARM.
   (A)   No person shall hunt or discharge firearms of any kind on the lake or
on the land described in this subchapter, except for that area of land and
portion of the lake which has been opened for public hunting and leased to the
state’s Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism which is described in Exhibit
A, attached to the ordinance from which this section derives.
   (B)   A person hunting on the afore described land leased to the state’s
Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism is permitted to discharge a shotgun
with pellets only or a bow and arrow for archery hunting during those times
that hunting is permitted pursuant to state law.
   (C)   A person hunting water fowl on the aforementioned water area leased to
the state’s Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism is permitted to discharge
a shotgun with pellets only during those times that hunting is permitted
pursuant to state law.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.190) (Ord. 2584, passed - -1975; Ord. 3421, passed 10-2-
2012) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.044 DESIGNATED ANCHORAGES.
   Those areas of the lake surface within 75 yards of the shoreline lying south
of the line described in §
94.039(I) of this chapter are declared to be designated anchorages.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.200) (Ord. 2584, passed - -1975)
§ 94.045 CAMPING PRIVILEGES AND FEES.
   (A)   There shall be designated camping areas created by resolutions of the
City Commission that shall be posted at Lake Fort Scott. There shall also be
established and created a system allowing the reservation and use of camping
spaces at Lake Fort Scott. Any camping space may be reserved for a period of
time with a permit issued for the utilization of said space. Reservations can
be obtained through the City Office or through a designated representative of
the city.
   (B)   There shall be established a fee system by resolution which shall be
adopted by the City Commission and provide the authorized fee schedule. All
fees must be paid in advance. Unless a space is reserved and paid, the occupant
of that space must immediately vacate the property upon request.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.201) (Ord. 3325, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.046 SHORELINE EXTENSIONS.
   No person is authorized to change the shoreline by extending any portion
thereof without prior written approval by the City Commission. Any extension of
the shoreline is limited to 50 feet from the normal waterline at the lake.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.210) (Ord. 2928, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.047 GLASS CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   Glass containers, used for food, beverage or any other substance, are
prohibited in any public use areas, city-owned property or on boats or docks on
the water surface.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.230) (Ord. 2928, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.048 PROPERTY OWNERSHIP CHANGES; CITY TO BE NOTIFIED.
   All property owners or leaseholders are required to notify the city, in
writing, within 30 days after such time as they have sold, leased or
transferred any ownership interest in their lake property.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.240) (Ord. 2928, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.049 SEWER DISTRICT.
   There is hereby created a Lake Fort Scott Sewer District at Lake Fort Scott.
All residents are required to hook into this system for their sanitary sewer
needs.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.250) (Ord. 3569, passed 12-1-2020) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.050 FISHING AREA ON SHORELINE.
   The city may place buoys on the lake to establish a protected area between
the buoys and the shoreline. All non-fishing boats and skiers are required to
stay to the lake side of the buoys and shall not travel between the buoys and
the shoreline.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.260) (Ord. 2928, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.051 DIRECTION OF LAKE TRAVEL.
   All motor-driven boats shall run counterclockwise on the lake.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.270) (Ord. 2928, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.052 SKIING LIMITATIONS.
   Skiing will not be conducted before sunrise or after sunset.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.280) (Ord. 2928, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
94.999
**** ROCK CREEK LAKE ****
§ 94.065 FISHING PERMITTED; SET, TROT, LIMB OR THROW LINES PROHIBITED.
   Beginning on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
subchapter, fishing, in compliance with this subchapter and with the laws of
the state and all applicable rules and regulations as established by the
state’s Department of Wildlife and Parks, as the same may be amended from time
to time, shall be permitted on Rock Creek Lake. No set, trot, limb or throw
lines shall be used in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.010) (Ord. 2360, passed - -1966) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.066 BOAT LICENSING.
   (A)   The fishing license fee for all persons between the ages of 16 and 65
shall be $5 per year. These regulations shall apply to all persons, except
those who are exempt from license requirements under the laws of the state. All
fishing licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year, regardless of date
of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.020)
   (B)   A license fee for the operation of a motorboat shall be paid to the
City Clerk on an annual basis. The yearly license fee for all persons for
motorboats of less than 25 horsepower shall be $10 and for motors of 25
horsepower or more, $20. The amount of horsepower shall be determined by the
manufacturer’s ratings.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.050)
   (C)   Persons desiring to operate a rowboat on the lake shall make
application to the City Clerk and obtain a license therefor, and the annual
license fee shall be $5.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.060)
(Ord. 2360, passed - -1966; Ord. 2711, passed - -1979; Ord. 2956, passed - -
1987; Ord. 3055, passed - -1992)
§ 94.067 CLOSURE; NO REFUND OF FEES.
   The lake may be closed to fishing and boating at any time and for any period
of time for any reason deemed advisable by the governing body of the city. The
licenses authorized in this subchapter are conditioned on this provision, and
no refund will be made to licensees in the event of such closure.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.040) (Ord. 2360, passed - -1966)
§ 94.068 CAMPING PRIVILEGES AND FEES.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be designed camping areas created by resolutions of
the City Commission that shall be posted at Rock Creek Lake.
      (2)   There shall also be established and created a system for the use of
camping spaces at Rock Creek Lake.
      (3)   Any camping space may be reserved for a period of time with a
permit issued for the utilization of said space.
      (4)   Reservations can be obtained through the City Office or through a
designated representative of the city.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be established a fee system by resolution which
shall be adopted by the City Commission and provide the authorized fee
schedule.
      (2)   All fees must be paid in advance.
      (3)   Unless a space is reserved and paid, the occupant of that space
must immediately vacate the property upon request.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.061) (Ord. 3326, passed - -2007)
§ 94.069 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The following acts are prohibited on Rock Creek Lake:
   (A)   The use or operation of any motorboat for purposes other than fishing.
No such boat shall be operated at a speed greater than ten mph;
   (B)   Swimming and bathing;
   (C)   The deposit of rubbish or trash on the banks of or near the lake; and
   (D)   All glass containers, used for food, beverage or any other substance,
are prohibited in any public use areas, city-owned property or on boats or
docks on the water surface.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.070) (Ord. 2134, passed - -1966; Ord. 2927, passed - -
12985; Ord. 2947, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.070 HUNTING; DISCHARGE OF FIREARM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hunt or discharge firearms of any kind on the lake or
on the land described in this subchapter, except for that area which has been
opened for public hunting and leased to the state’s Department of Wildlife,
Parks and Tourism which is described in Exhibit A, attached to the ordinance
from which this section derives.
   (B)   A person hunting on the afore described land leased to the state’s
Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism is permitted to discharge a shotgun
with pellets only or a bow and arrow for archery hunting during those times
that hunting is permitted pursuant to state law.
   (C)   A person hunting waterfowl on the aforementioned water area leased to
the state’s Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism is permitted to discharge
a shotgun with pellets only during those times that hunting is permitted
pursuant to state law.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.080) (Ord. 2360, passed - -1966; Ord. 3422, passed 10-2-
2012) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §§
94.001 through
94.005 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.36.030)
   (C)   (1)   Any person, persons, corporation or corporations violating any
portion of §
94.020 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in
Chapter 73, Schedule III, of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.25.020)
      (2)   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
94.021 of this chapter shall be judged guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.40.040)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
94.035 through
94.052 of this chapter, other than §
94.043 of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. In addition, the violator’s license to
operate a boat on the lake may be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.300)
      (2)   The penalty for violating any provisions of §
94.042(B) of this chapter is contained in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.180)
      (3)   Any person who discharges a firearm other than in the leased
hunting area during hunting season, per §
94.043 of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject
to a fine not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.190)
      (4)   Any person, persons, corporation or corporations violating any
portion of §
94.045 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.201)
   (E)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
94.065 through
94.070 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.090)
      (2)   Any person, persons, corporation or corporations violating any
portion of §
94.068 of this chapter be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished as provided in
Chapter 73, Schedule III, of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.061)
      (3)   Any person who discharges a firearm other than in the leased
hunting area during hunting season, per §
94.070 of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject
to a fine not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.080)
(Ord. 2360, passed - -1966; Ord. 2641, passed - -1977; Ord. 2928, passed - -
1985; Ord. 2584, passed - -1975; Ord. 2756, passed - -1980; Ord. 2802, passed -
-1981; Ord. 2927, passed - -1985; Ord. 3083, passed - -1993; Ord. 3325, passed
- -2007; Ord. 3326, passed - -2007; Ord. 3421, passed 10-2-2012; Ord. 3422,
passed 10-2-2012; Ord. 3606, passed - -2022)
CHAPTER 95: PUBLIC LIBRARY
Section
   
95.001   Failure to return library materials
   
95.002   Fraud in procuring library privileges
   
95.003   Notice of violation
   
95.004   Prosecution; presumption of proof
   
95.005   State law exemption; Library Board
§ 95.001 FAILURE TO RETURN LIBRARY MATERIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to fail to return any book, newspaper,
magazine, pamphlet, manuscript, article, film or any other property owned by
the Fort Scott Public Library after notice in writing to return the same within
15 days has been given to such person; such notice shall be given after the
expiration of the time which, by the rules of the Library Board, the book or
other library material may be kept.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.010) (Ord. 2820, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 95.002 FRAUD IN PROCURING LIBRARY PRIVILEGES.
   It is unlawful for any person to give fictitious name or address at the Fort
Scott Public Library in order to obtain possession or use of any book or any
other property of the library, or to use a library card other than his or her
own to secure without permission of the owner thereof possession of any book or
other property of the library, or to conceal his or her identity or place of
employment or residence in any manner whatsoever in order to secure possession
of any book, library card or any other property of the library.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.020) (Ord. 2820, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 95.003 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, whenever it appears that there has been
a violation of §
95.001 of this chapter, the librarian shall give notice of such alleged
violation to the person or persons responsible therefor as herein provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Particularize the violations alleged to exist or have been
committed;
      (3)   Specify that the person to whom the notice is issued shall have 15
days within which to correct the violations particularized; and
      (4)   Be addressed to and served upon the holder of the library card at
the address which is most recent as it appears from such person’s application
for a library card.
   (C)   Such notice shall be deemed properly served upon such holder or owner
of a library card if a copy thereof is served upon him or her personally, or if
a copy thereof is sent by certified mail to the address listed as most recent
on his or her application for a library card.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.030) (Ord. 2820, passed - -1982)
§ 95.004 PROSECUTION; PRESUMPTION OF PROOF.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of §
95.001 of this chapter, proof that a particular individual was the registered
holder of a particular library card which was used to secure any book or any
other library property shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption
that the record owner or holder of such library card was the person who
utilized the same to secure a particular book or any other property of the Fort
Scott Public Library at the point where and at the time when such violation
occurred.
   (B)   The presumption stated in division (A) above shall apply only when the
procedure as prescribed in §
95.003 of this chapter has been followed.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.040) (Ord. 2820, passed - -1982)
§ 95.005 STATE LAW EXEMPTION; LIBRARY BOARD.
   The city, by the power vested in it by the Act, hereby elects to exempt
itself from and make inapplicable to it the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1222, and
does hereby provide the following substitute and additional provisions in place
thereof.
   (A)   Upon the establishment of a city library under this act the acting
head of the city (the “Mayor”) shall appoint, with the approval of the City
Commission, a Library Board for such library, consisting of seven members and
one City Commission member.
      (1)   The Library Board shall consist of seven members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor and with the approval of the City Commission.
      (2)   In addition to these appointed members of the Board, one City
Commission member shall be appointed upon the approval of the City Commission.
Any City Commission member, including the Mayor, shall be eligible for
appointment. The appointed City Commissioner shall be ex officio a member of
the Library Board with the same voting powers as appointed members.
      (3)   No person holding any public or official office in the city, other
than a City Commission member, shall be appointed a member of a Library Board
while holding such office.
   (B)   Upon the expiration of the terms of members first appointed,
succeeding members shall be appointed in like manner for terms of four years.
      (1)   Members of a Library Board holding office at the effective date of
this Act shall continue to hold their offices until April 30 following the
expiration of the terms for which appointed, and on or before May 1 following
the first expiration of a term, a sufficient number shall be appointed by the
Mayor, with the approval of the City Commission, for terms of four years to
constitute a library board of the number of members prescribed by this Act.
      (2)   A member of the City Commission appointed to a Library Board shall
serve a term of one year, without restriction as to consecutive terms allowed.
The City Commission shall annually appoint a member of the City Commission, as
outlined herein, with the approval of the City Commission, on or before
February 1 of each year to serve on the Library Board.
   (C)   Four of the members appointed to a Library Board shall be residents of
the city, and three of the members appointed to a Library Board may reside
within a three-mile radius of the city’s legal boundaries.
      (1)   Appointments or terms served by a member of a Library Board made
prior to the effective date of section shall not retroactively count against
the term limit eligibility of a Library Board member hereunder.
      (2)   No person who has been appointed for two consecutive four-year
terms to a Library Board shall be eligible for further appointment to such
Board until one year after the expiration of the second term.
      (3)   Vacancies occasioned by removal from the municipality or the three-
mile radius of city boundaries for such members, resignation or otherwise,
shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term.
      (4)   Members of the Library Board shall receive no compensation for
their services as such, but shall be allowed their actual and necessary
expenses in attending meetings and in carrying out their duties as members.
(Charter Ord. 35, passed 3-19-2024)
 
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   SOLICITATIONS
      
113.   TAXICABS
      
114.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
115.   GARBAGE COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION
      
116.   NATURAL GAS WELLS
      
117.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
118.   TOBACCO
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Temporary Businesses
   
110.001   Purpose
   
110.002   Definitions
   
110.003   Permit required
   
110.004   Permit application
   
110.005   City Clerk’s investigation
   
110.006   Permit fees
   
110.007   Permit non-transferrable
   
110.008   Temporary businesses in residential areas
 
   
110.999   Penalty
**** TEMPORARY BUSINESSES ****
§ 110.001 PURPOSE.
   The zoning and subdivision regulations of the city currently prohibit all
temporary businesses in the city. The purpose of this subchapter is to allow
for the operation of said business through a permit system in the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.36.010) (Ord. 2784, passed - -1981)
§ 110.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any marketing activity conducted for the sale of goods or services
for a profit.
   TEMPORARY BUSINESS. The sale of goods or services sold by a business being
operated in the city for less than two days out of any seven-day period in a
residential area. All other residential selling for longer than that period is
prohibited unless specifically permitted by other city regulations. In all
other non-residential areas, it shall be the sale of goods or services sold by
a business being operated in the city out of a vehicle, truck, trailer, other
mobile unit, tent, outdoor sales area or any business activity not involving
the use of a permanent structure.
(Prior Code, § 5.36.020) (Ord. 2784, passed - -1981; Ord. 2899, passed - -1985;
Ord. 2963, passed - -1987)
§ 110.003 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, persons or entity shall operate a temporary business within the
city without a permit from the City Clerk, except those temporary businesses
which are controlled by and authorized by the Good Old Days Committee during
the annual City of Fort Scott Good Old Days celebration.
(Prior Code, § 5.36.030) (Ord. 2784, passed - -1981; Ord. 3136, passed - -1996)
Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.004 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a permit to operate a temporary business under this
subchapter shall be made at the City Clerk’s office upon forms provided by the
city. Such application shall be sworn to and filed with the City Clerk at least
24 hours prior to the time in which the permit applied for shall become
effective.
   (B)   The application herein required shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address or headquarters of the person applying for the
permit;
      (2)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of
the applicant’s principal officers and managers;
      (3)   The name and address of the person or persons who will be in direct
charge of conducting the temporary business;
      (4)   The time within which the temporary business will be operated and
the location of the business in the city; and
      (5)   Any application for permit must also be signed by the party on
whose property the temporary business shall be located.
(Prior Code, § 5.36.040) (Ord. 2784, passed - -1981)
§ 110.005 CITY CLERK’S INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall examine the applications filed under this
subchapter for a permit and shall make, or cause to be made, such further
investigation of the application and the applicant as the City Clerk shall deem
necessary.
   (B)   The permit will be issued once the City Clerk determines the following
facts:
      (1)   All of the statements made in the application are true; and
      (2)   The applicant has not engaged in any fraudulent transaction or
enterprise.
(Prior Code, § 5.36.050) (Ord. 2784, passed - -1981)
§ 110.006 PERMIT FEES.
   Before a permit is issued, there shall be paid to the Treasurer of the city
the sum of $25 per day for a permit which allows a temporary business to
operate at one location for two days or less, out of any seven-day period,
within the city on an annual basis. All permits shall be issued on a calendar-
year basis commencing on January 1 of each calendar year. There shall be no pro
rata charge made for a permit covering less than a 12-month period.
(Prior Code, § 5.36.060) (Ord. 2784, passed - -1981; Ord. 2963, passed - -1987;
Ord. 3056, passed - -1992)
§ 110.007 PERMIT NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   Any permit issued under this subchapter shall be non-transferable.
(Prior Code, § 5.36.070) (Ord. 2784, passed - -1981)
§ 110.008 TEMPORARY BUSINESSES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   Any permit issued under this subchapter for a temporary business to be
conducted in a residential- zoned area will require notification of all
property owners within 200 feet of the proposed location before the permit can
be issued. The notification will be by mail pursuant to a certified list of
property owners prepared by an abstracting company at the expense of the
proposed business operator. Once the property owners have been notified, they
will have five days within which to file a written objection to said business
permit. If no such written objections are received within the five-day
notification period, the Clerk is authorized to issue the permit; provided, the
applicant has met all the other eligibility requirements listed in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.36.080) (Ord. 2784, passed - -1981; Ord. 2859, passed - -1983)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §§
110.001 through
110.008 of this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Each day of operation in violation of the
provisions of §§
110.001 through
110.008 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5.36.090) (Ord. 2859, passed - -1983)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Definitions
   
111.002   Manufacture; license required; exceptions
   
111.003   Retail sale; license required; tax levied; possession
   
111.004   Tax; license presentation; receipt to be posted
   
111.005   Premises and employee regulations
   
111.006   Sale or delivery prohibited when; minors
   
111.007   Possession and transportation; unlawful when
   
111.008   Consumption; prohibited where; glass containers in public places
   
111.009   Saloons
   
111.010   Applicability
   
111.011   Not to repeal certain provisions
Cereal Malt Beverages
   
111.025   Definitions
   
111.026   License required; fees; application; issuance; non-transferability;
suspension or revocation
   
111.027   Premises requirements
   
111.028   Manufacturer, distributor or wholesaler; sale or interest in sale
prohibited
Beer Gardens
   
111.040   Limited public sale
   
111.041   License required; creation; issuance; tax; regulations; duration;
transferral; location; application; revocation or suspension
   
111.042   Boundaries
   
111.043   Severability
 
   
111.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 111.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes the following four varieties of liquor, as
defined in this section, and every liquid or solid, patented or not, containing
alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a
human being, but shall not include any beer or cereal malt beverage containing
not more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight.
      (1)   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid,
whether rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol, but does not include denatured alcohol or wood
alcohol.
      (2)   BEER. When its meaning is not enlarged, modified or limited by
other words, means a beverage containing more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight,
obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or concoction of barley or
other grain, malt and hops in water, and including, among other things, beer,
ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like having such alcohol content.
      (3)   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by
distillation, mixed with water or other substance in solution, and includes
brandy, rum, whiskey, gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when
rectified, blended or otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
      (4)   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by normal alcoholic
fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe grapes, fruit or berries or other
agricultural products, including such beverages containing added alcohol or
spirits, as defined in this section, or containing sugar added for the purpose
of correcting natural deficiencies.
   DISTRIBUTOR. A person importing or causing to be imported into the state, or
purchasing or causing to be purchased within the state, alcoholic liquor for
sale or resale to retailers under the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control
Act.
   MANUFACTURER. Every brewer, fermenter, distiller, rectifier, wine maker,
blender, processor, bottler or person who fills or refills an original package,
and others engaged in brewing, fermenting, distilling, rectifying or bottling
alcoholic liquors, as defined in this section, or beer regardless of its
alcoholic content, under the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act:
      (1)   Patent and proprietary medicines and medicinal, antiseptic and
toilet preparations;
      (2)   Flavoring extracts, syrups and food products; and
      (3)   Scientific, industrial and chemical products.
   RETAILER. A person licensed under the provisions of the state’s Liquor
Control Act to sell or offer for sale alcoholic liquor for use and consumption
and not for resale in any form.
   PERSON. Includes any natural person, corporation, partnership or
association.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor to contain and convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   TO SELL. Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for
sale and to keep with intent to sell.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.010) (Ord. 2082, passed - -1949)
§ 111.002 MANUFACTURE; LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall manufacture, make, brew or distill any alcoholic liquor
within the corporate limits of the city unless such person is licensed under
the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act; provided that, nothing
contained in this section shall apply to or prevent:
   (A)   The making of wine, cider or beer by a person, from fruits, vegetables
or grains, or the products thereof by simple fermentation and without
distillation, if it is made solely for the use of the maker and his or her
family;
   (B)   Any drugstore employing a licensed pharmacist from possessing and
using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of prescriptions of duly licensed
physicians;
   (C)   The manufacture of denatured alcoholic products in accordance with
acts of Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder; and/or
   (D)   The making of wine intended for use and used by any church or
religious organization for sacramental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.020) (Ord. 2082, passed - -1949)
§ 111.003 RETAIL SALE; LICENSE REQUIRED; TAX LEVIED; POSSESSION.
   (A)   Generally. No alcoholic liquor shall be sold at retail by any person
within the corporate limits of the city unless such person shall be licensed
therefor under the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.030)
   (B)   Tax levied.
      (1)   There is levied an annual occupation tax of the sum of $250 on each
retailer of alcoholic liquor, including beer containing more than 3.2% alcohol
by weight, for consumption on the premises in the city, who has a retailer’s
license issued by the state’s Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which tax
shall be paid before business is begun under an original state license and
within five days after any renewal of a state license.
      (2)   There is further levied an annual occupation tax in the sum of $300
on each retailer of alcoholic liquor, including beer containing more than 3.2%
alcohol by weight, for consumption off the premises in the city (sales in the
original package only) who has a retailer’s license issued by the state’s
Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which tax shall be paid before business
is begun under an original state license and within five days after any renewal
of the state license.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.040)
   (C)   Possession in other than original package prohibited. It is unlawful
for any person to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles,
casks or other containers containing alcoholic liquor, except in original
packages.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.100)
(Ord. 2081, passed - -1949; Ord. 2082, passed - -1949; Ord. 2107, passed - -;
Ord. 2773, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.004 TAX; LICENSE PRESENTATION; RECEIPT TO BE POSTED.
   (A)   Generally. A holder of a license for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor by the package in the city, issued by the state’s Director of Alcoholic
Beverage Control, shall present such license when applying to pay the
occupation tax levied in §
111.003(B) of this chapter. The tax shall be received and receipt issued by the
City Treasurer for the period covered by the state license.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.050)
   (B)   Receipt to be posted. Every licensee shall cause the city alcoholic
liquor retailer’s occupation tax receipt to be placed in plain view next to or
below the state license in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.060)
(Ord. 2081, passed - -1949; Ord. 2082, passed - -1949)
§ 111.005 PREMISES AND EMPLOYEE REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any retailer of alcoholic liquor:
   (A)   To permit any person to mix drinks in or on the licensed premises;
   (B)   To employ any person under the age of 21 years in connection with the
operation of such retail establishment; or
   (C)   To employ any person in connection with the operation of such retail
establishment who has been adjudged guilty of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.080) (Ord. 2082, passed - -1949) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.006 SALE OR DELIVERY PROHIBITED WHEN; MINORS.
   No person shall knowingly sell, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquor to or for any
minor under 21 years of age; and no such minor shall represent that he or she
is of age for the purpose of asking for, purchasing or receiving alcoholic
liquor from any persons, except in cases authorized by law. No person shall
knowingly sell, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver, or permit the sale,
gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquor to or for any person who is mentally
incompetent, or any person who is physically or mentally incapacitated by the
consumption of liquor.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.090) (Ord. 2082, passed - -1949) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.007 POSSESSION AND TRANSPORTATION; UNLAWFUL WHEN.
   Subject to the following limitations, the possession and transportation of
alcoholic liquor for personal use only shall be legal.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to transport, in any vehicle upon a
public highway, street or alley within the corporate limits of the city, any
alcoholic liquor, except in the original package or container which shall not
have been opened and the seal upon which shall not have been broken and from
which the original cap or cork shall not have been removed, unless the opened
package or container be in the locked rear trunk or rear compartment, or any
locked outside compartment which is not accessible to the driver or any other
person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
   (B)   After the Governor has issued a proclamation declaring that the tax
and licensing provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act are in full force
and operation and being administered by the state’s Director of Alcoholic
Beverage Control, it shall be unlawful for any person to transport or have in
his or her possession for his or her personal use in excess of two quarts of
alcoholic liquor on which the tax imposed by the state’s Liquor Control Act has
not been paid, or on the containers of which each mark and stamp required by
the state’s Liquor Control Act has not been affixed; provided that, nothing
contained in this section shall apply to the possession and transportation of
alcoholic liquor by any manufacturer, wholesaler, distributor, retailer, non-
beverage user or common carrier operating pursuant to the provisions of the
state’s Liquor Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.110) (Ord. 2082, passed - -1949) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.008 CONSUMPTION; PROHIBITED WHERE; GLASS CONTAINERS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   (1)    The governing body hereby authorizes the possession and
consumption of alcoholic liquor in the following image. The city understands
that permitted entities contained in the area where the state, through its
Director of the Division of Alcoholic Beverage Control in accordance with § 1,
Chapter 85, of the 2017 Session Laws of Kansas, and amendments thereto. The
possession and consumption of alcoholic liquor within said area is only
permitted within the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m., seven days a week.
      (2)    All alcoholic liquor removed from a licensed premises authorized
to sell alcoholic liquor under their current license shall be served in a
container that displays the licensee’s trade name or logo or other identifying
mark that is unique to the licensee.
      (3)   This will allow an open container of alcoholic liquor purchased
within the common consumption area and provided by business appropriately
licensed by the state to dispense alcoholic liquor.
      (4)   No alcoholic liquor may be removed from those business premises
within the common consumption area and allowed to transported within the area.
      (5)   In appropriate conduct shall not be permitted within the boundaries
of the common consumption area and any person engaging in such inappropriate
conduct shall be subject to removal from the common consumption area.
Inappropriate conduct may include, but is not limited to, fighting, use of
profanity or indecent language, harassment, destruction of property, lewd or
lascivious acts, or committing any violation of law or city code.
      (6)   All licensees approved by the ABC to participate in the common
consumption area shall at all times comply with any and all federal, state and
city laws or regulations pertaining to the purchase and sale of alcoholic
liquor.
      (7)   The governing body hereby authorizes the City Manager or his or her
designee to take all reasonably necessary actions, including, but not limited
to, the execution of all documents and instruments to obtain the common area
consumption permit on behalf of the city.
      (8)   Subject to receipt of the permit described in division (A)(2)
above, the governing body hereby authorizes the City Manager or his or her
designee to establish rules and regulations pertaining to the use of activities
within the common consumption area. A copy of the rules and regulations shall
be available at the office of the City Clerk during regular business hours and
on the website maintained by the city. Any violation of such rules and
regulations, any official city signage, state law or regulations or the oral
direction of any city employee or authorized volunteer shall be grounds from
expulsion from the common consumption area and criminal sanctions or any other
remedy available under local, state or federal laws will apply.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.120)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to drink, consume or carry alcoholic
liquor or any beverage in a glass container upon any public place which shall
include streets, sidewalks, public parks and public parking areas in the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.125)
(Ord. 2082, passed - -1949; Ord. 3071, passed - -1993; Ord. 3091, passed - -
1994; Ord. 3381, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 3774, passed 10-15-2024) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.009 SALOONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to own, maintain, operate or conduct, either
directly or indirectly, an open saloon within the corporate limits of the city.
For the purpose of this section, OPEN SALOON means any place, public or
private, where alcoholic liquor is sold or offered for sale or kept for sale by
the drink or in any quantity of less than 3.4 fluid ounces, or sold or offered
for sale, or kept for sale for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.130) (Ord. 2082, passed - -1949) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.010 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The making of wine, cider or beer by a person, from fruits,
vegetables or grains, or the products thereof, by simple fermentation and
without distillation, if it is made solely for the use of the maker and his or
her family;
      (2)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession;
      (3)   Any hospital or other institution caring for sick and diseased
persons from possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona
fide patients of such hospital or institution;
      (4)   Any drugstore employing a licensed pharmacist from possessing and
using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of prescriptions of duly licensed
physicians; and/or
      (5)   The possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
of religious ceremony conducted by such church.
   (B)   None of the provisions of this subchapter shall apply:
      (1)   To flavoring extracts, syrups or medicinal, scientific, culinary or
toilet preparations or food products unfit for beverage purposes; and/or
      (2)   To wine intended for use and used by any church or religious
organization for sacramental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.140) (Ord. 2082, passed - -1949)
§ 111.011 NOT TO REPEAL CERTAIN PROVISIONS.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed as repealing any of
the existing ordinances of the city relating to cereal malt beverages and malt
products.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.150) (Ord. 2082, passed - -1949)
**** CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES ****
§ 111.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Includes any fermented but undistilled liquor brewed
or made from malt or from a mixture of malt and/or malt substitute.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, copartnerships, corporations and
associations.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any place at which cereal malt beverages are sold.
   SALE AT RETAIL and RETAIL SALE. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   WHOLESALER or DISTRIBUTOR. Individuals, firms, copartnerships, corporations
and associations which sell or offer for sale any beverage referred to in this
subchapter, to persons, copartnerships, corporations and associations
authorized by this subchapter to sell cereal malt beverages at retail.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.010) (Ord. 2550, passed - -1974)
§ 111.026 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES; APPLICATION; ISSUANCE; NON- TRANSFERABILITY;
SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall sell any cereal malt beverage at retail
without first having secured a license for each place of business which such
person desires to operate within the corporate limits of the city, as provided
in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.020)
   (B)   Fees. License fees are prescribed as follows:
      (1)   General retailer for each place of business selling cereal malt
beverages at retail in original and unopened containers only, and not for
consumption on the premises: $60;
      (2)   For each place of business selling cereal malt beverages at retail
in kegs, bottles, cases and containers, including on-premises consumption:
$125; and
      (3)   For each place of business selling cereal malt beverage at retail:
$25 shall be collected for the state.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.030)
   (C)   Application. Any person desiring a license shall make an application
to the governing body of the city and accompany the application by the required
license fee for each place of business for which the person desires the
license. The application shall be verified and written upon a form prepared by
the Attorney General of the state, and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and residence of the applicant and how long he or she has
resided within the state;
      (2)   The particular place for which a license is desired;
      (3)   The name of the owner of the premises upon which the place of
business is located;
      (4)   A statement that the applicant is a citizen of the United States
and not less than 21 years of age, and that he or she has not, within two years
immediately preceding the date of making application, been convicted of a
felony or any crime involving moral turpitude, or been adjudged guilty of
drunkenness or driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, or the violation of any other intoxicating liquor law of
the state or of the United States; and
      (5)   The name and residence of the person who is to have active charge
of the business.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.040)
   (D)   Issuance. If the application is in proper form and accompanied by cash
in the amount of the license fee, the governing body of the city shall examine
the application and, after examination of the application the governing body,
shall, if it approves the same, issue a license to the applicant; provided, no
license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of the county and who has not been a
resident in good faith of the state for at least one year prior to the
application and a resident of the county for at least six months;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A person who, within two years immediately preceding the date of
making application, has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude, or been adjudged guilty of drunkenness or driving a motor vehicle
while under the influence of intoxicating liquor, or the violation of any other
intoxicating liquor law of any state or of the United States;
      (5)   A copartnership, unless one of the copartners is a resident of the
county, and unless all the members of such copartnership are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (6)   A corporation, if any manager, officer or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of such
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this chapter for any
reason other than non-residence within the county; and
      (7)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.050)
   (E)   Granting; deemed non-transferable; to be posted. The journal of the
governing body shall show the action taken, and if the license is granted, the
action of the governing body shall direct the officers charged by law to issue
other licenses under the general licensing power of the city to execute the
license by order of the governing body. The license shall not be transferable.
Among other things, the license shall state that it is not transferable and the
calendar year for which issued. The license shall be kept posted in a
conspicuous place in the place of business.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.060)
   (F)   Suspension or revocation; reissuance when. The governing body of the
city, upon five days’ notice to the persons holding a cereal malt beverage
license, shall suspend or revoke such license for any one of the following
reasons:
      (1)   If a licensee has fraudulently obtained the license by giving false
information in the application therefor;
      (2)   If the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this
subchapter or any other ordinance of the city prescribing rules or regulations
relating to cereal malt beverages, as defined in this subchapter or if the
licensee has violated any law of the state for which violation the city is
authorized by law to suspend or revoke the license;
      (3)   If the licensee has become ineligible to obtain a license in this
subchapter;
      (4)   Drunkenness of the person holding such license or permitting any
intoxicated person to remain in such place;
      (5)   The sale of cereal malt beverages to those under the age of 21
years;
      (6)   Non-payment of any license fees;
      (7)   Permitting any gambling in or upon such premises;
      (8)   Permitting any person to mix drinks with material purchased in the
place of business or brought in for that purpose;
      (9)   The employment of persons under 21 years of age as dispensers or
bartenders. The employment of persons under 18 years of age as servers;
      (10)   The employment of persons who have been adjudged guilty of a
felony or any violation of the intoxicating liquor law; and/or
      (11)   The sale or possession of or for permitting any person to use or
consume alcoholic liquor, as defined by the laws of the state, upon or in said
premises; provided that, the provisions of division (H)(8) above shall not
apply if such place of business or premises are also currently licensed as a
club under a license issued by the state’s Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control. Within 20 days after the order of the governing body suspending or
revoking any license, the licensee may appeal to the District Court of the
county in the manner now provided by law in appeals from the probate court;
provided that, any appeal taken from an order suspending or revoking any such
license shall not suspend the order of suspension or revocation during the
pendency of any such appeal. In case of the revocation of the license of any
licensee, no new license shall be issued to such person, or any person acting
for or on his or her behalf, for a period of six months thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.080)
(Ord. 2550, passed - -1974; Ord. 2576, passed - -1975; Ord. 2977, passed - -
1988; Ord. 3025, passed - -1991; Ord. 3059, passed - -1992)
§ 111.027 PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   No private rooms or closed booths shall be operated in any place of
business. The place of business shall be open to the public and the police at
all times during business hours. No person under 21 years of age shall be
permitted to buy or drink any such beverages in or about said place of
business.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.070) (Ord. 2550, passed - -1974; Ord. 3140, passed - -1996;
Ord. 3564, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.028 MANUFACTURER, DISTRIBUTOR OR WHOLESALER; SALE OR INTEREST IN SALE
PROHIBITED.
   No manufacturer, distributor, agent or wholesaler shall directly or
indirectly, sell furnishings, fixtures or equipment on the premises of a place
of business of a licensee authorized under this subchapter to sell cereal malt
beverages at retail; nor shall he or she, directly or indirectly, pay for any
such license, or advance, furnish, lend or give money for payment of such
license, or purchase or become the owner of any note, mortgage or other
evidence of indebtedness of such licensee or any form of security therefor; nor
shall such manufacturer, distributor or wholesaler, directly or indirectly, be
interested in the ownership, conduct or operation of the business of any such
licensee; nor shall any manufacturer, distributor or wholesaler be interested,
directly or indirectly, as an owner or part owner of said premises, or as a
lessee or lessor thereof, in any premises upon which cereal malt beverages are
sold at retail. No manufacturer, distributor or wholesaler shall, directly or
indirectly or through a subsidiary or affiliate, or by any officer, director or
firm of such manufacturer, distributor or wholesaler, furnish, give, lend or
rent any interior decorations other than signs, costing in the aggregate more
than $100 in any one calendar year for use in or about or in connection with
any one establishment on which products of the manufacturer, distributor or
wholesaler are sold. No person engaged in the business of manufacturing,
distributing or wholesaling cereal malt beverages shall, directly or
indirectly, pay for, or advance, furnish or lend money for the payment of any
license for another. Any licensee who shall permit or assent or be a part in
any way to any violation or infringement of the provisions of this section,
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this subchapter, and any money loaned
contrary to a provision of this subchapter shall not be recovered back, or any
note, mortgage or other evidence of indebtedness, or security, or any lease or
contract obtained or made contrary to this subchapter shall be unenforceable
and void. No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any cereal malt beverage to
any person who has not secured a license as provided for in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.090) (Ord. 2550, passed - -1974) Penalty, see §
111.999
**** BEER GARDENS ****
§ 111.040 LIMITED PUBLIC SALE.
   The city has deemed it advisable to allow and license limited public sale at
retail and consumption of cereal malt beverages in specific areas of the public
parks or other places in said city during community-wide celebrations, or
certain other public events. Such sale shall be by responsible persons working
for charitable and non-profit organizations with the proceeds going to said
organizations for which a license will be issued by the city, and shall be
allowed for limited periods of time.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.010) (Ord. 2986, passed - -1989)
§ 111.041 LICENSE REQUIRED; CREATION; ISSUANCE; TAX; REGULATIONS; DURATION;
TRANSFERRAL; LOCATION; APPLICATION; REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Generally. There is created a license, to be denominated a beer garden
license. A license will be issued by the city to an individual on behalf of a
non-profit, charitable organization or to the organization itself designating
the responsible person.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.020)
   (B)   Tax. The license tax levied shall be $125.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.030)
   (C)   Regulations. No cereal malt beverage may be sold at retail in any city
park of the city, or on any other public grounds of the city, or anywhere in
the city in an outdoor area, except under a beer garden license. The following
regulations shall apply:
      (1)   Such sale shall be limited to the beer garden; and
      (2)   No cereal malt beverage may be sold in a glass container.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.040)
   (D)   Conditional issuance. No beer garden licenses shall be issued, except
during community-wide public celebrations or holidays.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.050)
   (E)   Duration; frequency of issuance; transferral. The duration of a beer
garden license shall be for one calendar year to cover special events, as
defined in this subchapter. The license shall be picked up 72 hours prior to
the event and returned to the city within 72 hours after the event is
terminated or the next business day. No beer garden license shall be
transferred by the beer garden licensee to whom it was originally issued.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.060)
   (E)   Location designation. A beer garden license shall designate
specifically an area in a city park or, alternatively, other public grounds in
the Central Business District or other public grounds in the city, which area
shall be used for the purposes of the license and which area will hereafter be
referred to as a “beer garden”.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.070)
   (F)   Application and issuance; suspension or revocation. The license
application and issuance requirements shall be consistent with §
111.026(C), (D) and (E) of this chapter. The beer garden license may be
suspended or revoked pursuant to §
111.026(F) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.080)
(Ord. 2986, passed - -1989; Ord. 3061, passed - -1992; Ord. 3388, passed 12-21-
2010) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.042 BOUNDARIES.
   The beer garden shall not exceed 1,000 square feet in area, shall be
contiguous and shall have its boundaries clearly marked.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.090) (Ord. 2986, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.043 SEVERABILITY.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed as modifying,
amending or repealing by implication any provisions of §§
111.025 through
111.028 of this chapter. Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be
construed as modifying, amending or repealing by implication any other
ordinance or regulation, whether city, state or federal, relating to control of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic and parking, zoning or other regulations of
cereal malt beverages.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.100) (Ord. 2986, passed - -1989)
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
111.001 through
111.011 of this chapter for which a penalty is not otherwise specifically
provided shall, upon conviction of any such violation, be punished as provided
in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.160)
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
111.006 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or by
imprisonment for not to exceed 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.090)
      (3)   Any person violating §
111.007 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $200, or by
imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.110)
      (4)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.008(B) of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.125)
      (5)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.009 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and
by imprisonment for no more than 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.130)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
111.025 through
111.028 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.110)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
111.040 through
111.042 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5.14.110)
(Ord. 2081, passed - -1949; Ord. 2082, passed - -1949; Ord. 2550, passed - -
1974; Ord. 2986, passed - -1989; Ord. 3071, passed - -1993; Ord. 3091, passed -
-1994; Ord. 3381, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 3774, passed 10-15-2024)
CHAPTER 112: SOLICITATIONS
Section
Solicitors, Canvassers and Peddlers
   
112.001   Definitions
   
112.002   License required
   
112.003   License application
   
112.004   License fee
   
112.005   License investigation
   
112.006   License disapproval
   
112.007   License approval
   
112.008   License expiration date
   
112.009   License exhibition required
   
112.010   License suspension or revocation
   
112.011   Use of streets; stationary location prohibited
Charitable Solicitations
   
112.025   Definitions
   
112.026   Permit required
   
112.027   Permit application
   
112.028   Investigation of applicants
   
112.029   Permit fee
   
112.030   Permit information; time limitation
   
112.031   Permit non-transferrable
   
112.032   Agents and solicitors; credentials
   
112.033   Review of permit denial; request
   
112.034   Religious solicitations
   
112.035   Permit suspension; notice
   
112.036   Fraudulent misrepresentation and misstatements prohibited
 
   
112.999   Penalty
**** SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS AND PEDDLERS ****
§ 112.001 DEFINITIONS.
   SOLICITOR, CANVASSER and PEDDLER, as used in this subchapter, mean any
individual whose business is mainly or principally carried on by traveling,
either by foot, wagon, automobiles motor vehicle or any other type of
conveyance, from place to place, from house to house or from street to street,
taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise
or personal property of any kind whatsoever for present or future delivery, or
for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such
individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such
sale or whether he or she is collecting advance payments or not. This
definition shall not include persons selling only to retailers or wholesalers.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.010) (Ord. 2570, passed - -1975)
§ 112.002 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a solicitor,
canvasser or peddler, as defined m §
112.001 of this chapter, within the corporate limits of the city, without first
obtaining a license therefor as provided in this subchapter, or to engage in
such business after his or her license has been suspended, revoked or
cancelled, or to fail to surrender such license after the same has been
suspended, revoked or cancelled.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.020) (Ord. 2570, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.003 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to apply for a license as a solicitor, canvasser or
peddler under the provisions of this subchapter shall file with the City Clerk
a sworn application, in writing in duplicate, on a form to be furnished by the
City Clerk, which shall give the following information:
   (A)   The name and description of the applicant;
   (B)   The permanent home address and local address of the applicant;
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business to be carried on or
the goods or services to be sold and the length of time the applicant has been
engaged in such business;
   (D)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing such relationship;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
the license number or other means of identification;
   (G)   A photograph of the applicant taken within one year prior to the date
of the application, which picture shall be two inches by two inches, showing
the head and shoulder of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner.
Fingerprints of the applicant shall be taken by the Police Division and filed
with the application;
   (H)   The names of at least two reliable property owners of the county who
will certify as to the applicant’s good character and business responsibility,
or in lieu thereof, such other evidence as to the good character and business
responsibility of the applicant as will enable an investigator to properly
evaluate his or her character and business responsibility; and
   (I)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime, misdemeanor or violation of this code or any other municipal
ordinance, giving the nature of the offense, the punishment or penalty
assessed, if any, and the city and state where conviction occurred.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.030) (Ord. 2570, passed - -1975)
§ 112.004 LICENSE FEE.
   At the time of the filing of the application, a fee of $25 shall be paid to
the City Clerk to cover the cost of investigation of the facts stated in the
application; provided that, an application for the renewal of a license, filed
within 30 days after the expiration of a former license held by the applicant,
shall be accompanied by an investigation fee of $5.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.040) (Ord. 2570, passed - -1975; Ord. 3058, passed - -1992)
§ 112.005 LICENSE INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of any application for a solicitor’s, peddler’s or canvasser’s
license, the original thereof shall be referred immediately to the City
Manager, who shall cause an investigation to be made of the facts stated in the
application and of the applicant’s business responsibility and moral character.
If the application states a vehicle is to be used, such motor vehicle shall be
inspected by the police and a report of such investigation shall be filed with
the City Manager. The City Manager shall endorse his or her findings on the
application and return the application to the City Clerk within three business
days after receipt thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.050) (Ord. 2570, passed - -1975)
§ 112.006 LICENSE DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   If, as a result of the investigation provided for in §
112.005 of this chapter, the applicant’s character or business responsibility
are found to be unsatisfactory or the facts stated in the application are found
to be untrue, or if the vehicle to be used by the applicant is not in good
mechanical condition and does not meet all safety requirements, the City
Manager shall endorse on the application his or her disapproval thereof and the
reasons for disapproval before returning the application to the City Clerk, who
shall then notify the applicant that his or her application is disapproved and
that no license will be issued.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.060)
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the action of the City Manager or City Clerk
in the denial of an application for a license as a solicitor, canvasser or
peddler shall have the right to appeal to the governing body of the city within
ten days after the denial of such application, by filing with the City Clerk a
written notice of intention to appeal, setting forth fully the grounds for such
appeal. The governing body shall, at the next meeting after the filing of such
appeal, fix a time and place for a hearing thereon and notice of such hearing
shall be given to the appellant, in writing, by mailing such notice to the
appellant at his or her last known address, as shown by his or her application,
at least five days prior to the date set for hearing. The decision of the
governing body on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.070)
(Ord. 2570, passed - -1975)
§ 112.007 LICENSE APPROVAL.
   If, as a result of the investigation provided for in §
112.005 of this chapter, the character and business responsibility of the
applicant for a license as a solicitor, canvasser or peddler are found to be
good and the facts stated in the application are found to be true, the City
Manager shall endorse his or her approval upon the application before returning
such application to the City Clerk, who shall then, without payment of any
license fee, immediately issue to the applicant a license to engage in the
business described in the application. The license shall contain the signature
of the City Clerk and shall show the name, address and photograph of the
licensee, the class of license issued, the kind of goods to be sold or services
to be rendered thereunder and the date of issuance and the date of expiration
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.080) (Ord. 2570, passed - -1975)
§ 112.008 LICENSE EXPIRATION DATE.
   All licenses for solicitors, canvassers or peddlers issued under the
provisions of this subchapter shall expire on December 31 of the year of their
issuance.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.090) (Ord. 2570, passed - -1975)
§ 112.009 LICENSE EXHIBITION REQUIRED.
   Peddlers are required to exhibit their licenses at the request of any
citizen.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.100) (Ord. 2570, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.010 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Upon complaint and evidence of good cause, the City Manager is
authorized to suspend the license of any solicitor, canvasser or peddler issued
under the provisions of this subchapter until the second meeting of the
governing body following such suspension, and the governing body, upon a
hearing of the matter with notice of such hearing mailed to the licensee at his
or her last known address, as shown by his or her license, at least five days
prior to the date set for the hearing, may permanently revoke or cancel such
license for good cause, or terminate the suspension and order the return of the
license; provided that, good cause shall include the following:
      (1)   Any reason for which a license could be refused by the City Clerk,
in the case of an original application;
      (2)   Conviction of the licensee by the Police Court in the city in any
case involving a violation of this code or any other ordinance of the city
relating to or regulating any business, trade, calling or profession carried on
or pursued in the city;
      (3)   Fraud, misrepresentation or any false statement contained in the
application for a license;
      (4)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business provided for in the license; and
      (5)   Conducting the business of the licensee in an unlawful manner, or
in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace
to the health, safety or welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
   (B)   Whenever a license is suspended, revoked or cancelled, as provided in
division (A) above, the licensee shall immediately surrender such license to
the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.120) (Ord. 2570, passed - -1975)
§ 112.011 USE OF STREETS; STATIONARY LOCATION PROHIBITED.
   The issuance of a peddler’s license to any person by the City Clerk, as
provided in this subchapter, shall not entitle such person to have any
exclusive right to any location in the public streets, nor shall any such
person be permitted any stationary location, nor shall he or she be permitted
to operate in any congested area where his or her operation might impede or
inconvenience the public. For the purpose of this section, the judgment of a
police officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to
whether the area is congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.110) (Ord. 2570, passed - -1975)
**** CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS ****
§ 112.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. Includes the words patriotic, philanthropic, social service,
welfare, benevolent, educational, civic or fraternal, either actual or
purported.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, company,
association, church, religious sect, religious denomination, society,
organization or league.
   RELIGIOUS and RELIGION. Do not mean and include the word “charitable”, as
defined in this section, but shall be given their commonly accepted
definitions.
   SOLICIT and SOLICITATION. The request, directly or indirectly, of money,
credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value on the plea or
representation that such money, credit, property, financial assistance or other
tiring of value Wi-Fi be used for a charitable or religious purpose as those
purposes are defined in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.010) (Ord. 2772, passed - -1980)
§ 112.026 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall solicit contributions for any charitable purpose
within the city without a permit from the City Clerk; provided, however, that,
the provisions of this section shall apply to the person in charge of all mass
charitable solicitations to be conducted within the city on a given date for
which volunteers without remuneration for making such solicitations are
involved.
   (B)   Only the person in charge of said activity shall be required to
register under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.020) (Ord. 2772, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.027 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a permit to solicit under this chapter shall be
made to the City Clerk’s office upon forms provided by the city. Such
application shall be sworn to and filed with the City Clerk at least 30 days
prior to the time at which the permit applied for shall become effective;
provided, however, that, the City Clerk may, for good cause shown, allow the
filing of an application less than 30 days prior to the effective date of the
permit applied for.
   (B)   The application required in this section shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address or headquarters of the person applying for the
permit;
      (2)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of
the applicant’s principal officers and managers;
      (3)   The name and address of the person or persons who will be in direct
charge of conducting the solicitation; and
      (4)   The time when the solicitations will be made.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.030) (Ord. 2772, passed - -1980)
§ 112.028 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS.
   The City Clerk shall examine all applications filed under this subchapter
for a charitable solicitation permit and shall make, or cause to be made, such
further investigation of the application and the permit will be issued once the
City Clerk determines the following facts:
   (A)   All of the statements made in the application are true;
   (B)   The control and supervision of the solicitation will be under
responsible and reliable persons; and
   (C)   The applicant has not engaged in any fraudulent transaction or
enterprise.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.040) (Ord. 2772, passed - -1980)
§ 112.029 PERMIT FEE.
   Before a permit is issued, there shall be paid to the Treasurer of the city
the sum of $5 as a permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.050) (Ord. 2772, passed - -1980; Ord. 3057, passed - -1992)
§ 112.030 PERMIT INFORMATION; TIME LIMITATION.
   Permits issued under this chapter shall bear the name and address of the
person by whom the solicitation is to be made, the number of the permit, the
date issued, the dates within which the permit holder may solicit, and a
statement that the permit does not constitute an endorsement by the city of the
purpose or of the person conducting the solicitation. All permits must be
signed by the City Clerk. No permit may grant the right to solicit longer than
90 days from its date.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.060) (Ord. 2772, passed - -1980)
§ 112.031 PERMIT NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   Any permit issued under this subchapter shall be non-transferable.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.070) (Ord. 2772, passed - -1980)
§ 112.032 AGENTS AND SOLICITORS; CREDENTIALS.
   All persons to whom permits have been issued under this subchapter shall
furnish proper credentials to their agents and solicitors for such
solicitation. Such credentials shall include the name of the permit holder, the
date the permit was issued and the specific time period during which said
solicitor is authorized to solicit on behalf of the permit holder.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.080) (Ord. 2772, passed - -1980)
§ 112.033 REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL; REQUEST.
   Within five days after receiving notification that the application for a
permit to solicit under this subchapter has been denied, any applicant may file
a written request for review of the denial with the City Manager’s office. Upon
the filing of such a request, the City Manager shall fix a time and place to
meet with the applicant and, at that meeting, the City Manager will review the
information presented to the City Clerk’s office and shall make a decision as
to whether to uphold the original findings or to issue a permit for
solicitation.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.090) (Ord. 2772, passed - -1980)
§ 112.034 RELIGIOUS SOLICITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall solicit contributions for any religious purpose within
the city without a certificate from the City Clerk’s office. Application for a
certificate shall be made to the City Clerk upon forms provided by the city.
Such application shall be signed by the applicant and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address or headquarters of the person applying for the
permit;
      (2)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of
the applicant’s principal officers and managers authorizing the religious
activities;
      (3)   The name and address of the person or persons who will be in direct
charge of conducting the religious activities and solicitations within the
city; and
      (4)   The time when such religious activities and solicitations shall be
made, giving the preferred dates for the beginning and ending of such
activities.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of such application, once the City Clerk is
satisfied that all of the information contained in the application is true and
correct, the City Clerk shall forthwith issue the applicant a certificate of
registration. The certificate shall remain in force and effect for a period of
90 days after the issuance thereof and shall be renewed upon the expiration of
this period upon the filing of a new application as provided for in this
section. Certificates of registration shall bear the name and address of the
person by whom the solicitation is to be made, the number of the certificate,
the date issued and a statement that the certificate does not constitute an
endorsement by the city. All persons to whom certificates have been issued
shall furnish credentials to their agents.
      (2)   No person shall solicit for any religious cause without having such
credentials in his or her possession.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.100) (Ord. 2772, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.035 PERMIT SUSPENSION; NOTICE.
   Whenever it shall be shown, or whenever the City Clerk has knowledge, that
any person to whom a permit has been issued under this subchapter has violated
any of the provisions of this subchapter, or that any promoter, agent or
solicitor of a permit holder has misrepresented the purpose of the
solicitation, the City Clerk shall immediately suspend the permit and give the
permit holder written notice by registered mail of the termination of the
permit for solicitation.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.110) (Ord. 2772, passed - -1980)
§ 112.036 FRAUDULENT MISREPRESENTATION AND MISSTATEMENTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall directly or indirectly solicit contributions for any purpose
by misrepresentation of his or her name, occupation, financial condition,
social condition or residence, and no person shall make or perpetrate any other
misstatement, deception or fraud in connection with any solicitation of any
contribution for any purpose in the city, or in any application or report filed
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.120) (Ord. 2772, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
112.001 through
112.011 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.130)
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §§
112.025 through
112.036 of this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Each day of operation in violation of the
provisions of §§
112.025 through
112.036 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.130)
(Ord. 2570, passed - -1975; Ord. 2772, passed - -1980)
CHAPTER 113: TAXICABS
Section
   
113.001   Definitions
   
113.002   License required
   
113.003   License application; contents; display
   
113.004   License issuance
   
113.005   Insurance; safety requirements
   
113.006   License application; display
   
113.007   License fees
   
113.008   License suspension or revocation
   
113.009   Previously licensed taxicab
   
113.010   Lost articles
   
113.011   Off-duty time required
   
113.012   Driver; use of intoxicating liquor; license revocation
   
113.013   Right to regulate
   
113.014   Registration and license required
 
   
113.999   Penalty
§ 113.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, association, corporation or business organization.
   STREET. Any street, alley, avenue, boulevard, trafficway, lane, court or
public place in the city.
   TAXICAB. Includes all motorized methods of conveyance carrying passengers
for hire for which public patronage is solicited; provided, however, that,
railroad cars and motorbuses designed and constructed for general
transportation of passengers for hire and possessing a manufacturer’s rated
seating capacity of 12 or more passengers, shall not be considered TAXICABS
within the meaning of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.010) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934; Ord. 2911, passed - -1985;
Ord. 2942, passed - -1986)
§ 113.002 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, whether acting as owner, principal, agent, employee, lessee or
licensee, shall operate or permit to be operated any taxicab upon the streets
of the city without first having procured a license therefor, as provided in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.020) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.003 LICENSE APPLICATION; CONTENTS; DISPLAY.
   Each cab shall have proof of the company name inside the vehicle for
identification purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.030) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934; Ord. 2900, passed - -1985;
Ord. 3473, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 113.004 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   Each license shall be issued by the City Clerk after application has first
been approved by the City Manager or his or her designee. No license shall be
assigned or transferred.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.040) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934; Ord. 2856, passed - -1983;
Ord. 3473, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 113.005 INSURANCE; SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Before any license for a taxicab shall be issued, the owner shall file
with the City Clerk a standard insurance policy, issued by an insurance company
licensed to do business in the state and subject to the jurisdiction of the
state’s Insurance Department, providing insurance coverage which meets the
minimum requirements of the state. The policy shall contain all other
conditions required by the laws of the state and shall carry a uniform
endorsement for notice to the city of any changes therein in such form as shall
be specified by the City Attorney.
   (B)   The policy shall provide further that it cannot be cancelled until ten
days’ written notice of such cancellation shall have been filed with the City
Clerk.
   (C)   If such policy is cancelled and the owner of the taxicab fails to
provide, within ten days, another policy of insurance complying with the
provisions thereof, then the license issued for such taxicab shall
automatically become void and of no effect.
   (D)   It is further provided that, before any license for a taxicab is
issued, the vehicle or vehicles shall pass a state motor vehicle inspection.
The inspection shall be performed by any state-approved motor vehicle
inspection station.
   (E)   It is further provided, that before any license for a taxicab is
issued, the vehicle operating under this chapter shall be inspected by an
independent automotive garage to verify that the vehicle is safe for the
transportation of passengers. This inspection will include, but will not be
limited to, the physical integrity of the passenger compartment to make certain
that the doors operate properly, that seat belts are provided and in working
order, that seats are properly anchored in a secure fashion, that the floor
boards of the car are intact and able to withstand the weight of passengers as
well as being sealed to prevent infusion of any outside material into the
passenger compartment and all such reports are to be in writing and filed with
the Codes Enforcement Officer of the city. The city will provide an appropriate
inspection form. Each and every vehicle, which is licensed by the city as a
taxicab, must conduct this inspection every six months after the license is
issued for the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.050) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934; Ord. 2626, passed - -1976;
Ord. 2873, passed - -1984; Ord. 2911, passed - -1985; Ord. 2942, passed - -
1986) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.006 LICENSE APPLICATION; DISPLAY.
   No person shall operate a taxicab, as defined in this chapter, without first
making application, in writing, to the City Clerk for a license to do so.
Applications shall be made by the operator and shall contain his or her full
name, address and telephone number of the operator, his or her state driver’s
license number for the appropriate driver’s license required under K.S.A. 8-234
(B), and the company or corporation that he or she is working for. No person
shall be eligible for a license as a taxicab operator if the person has been
convicted of D.U.I. or placed on diversion for D.U.I. within five years of the
date of the application. No person shall be eligible for an operator’s license
who has been convicted of any violent crime against persons or any theft-
related crimes if the same have occurred within five years of the date of the
application. Licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk after receipt of
application and proof that the applicant has a current, valid, state driver’s
license as is set out in K.S.A. 8-234(B), and has met the other requirements of
this section. Each applicant shall have his or her photograph and fingerprints
taken by the Police Department at the time of the application. All applicants
must be licensed to drive by the state for at least 90 days prior to being
issued a taxi operator’s license. No taxicab operator’s license shall be
assigned or transferred. The taxicab operator’s license shall be displayed on
the interior of the vehicle on or adjacent to the sun visor on the right-hand
side of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.060) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934; Ord. 2626, passed - -1976;
Ord. 2758, passed - -1980; Ord. 2873, passed - -1984; Ord. 2900, passed - -
1985) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.007 LICENSE FEES.
   The taxicab operator’s license fee will be $5 per year. The taxicab license
will be $35 per year.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.070) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934; Ord. 2626, passed - -1976;
Ord. 2900, passed - -1985; Ord. 3038, passed - -1992; Ord. 3473, passed 4-5-
2016)
§ 113.008 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   In addition to any other penalty provided by this chapter, the City Manager
may revoke any license issued or granted under the provisions of this chapter,
upon conviction of the licensee of the violation of any ordinance of the city
or of any law of the state or in the event such licensee becomes an unfit
person to be engaged in the business of transporting or conveying persons for
hire.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.080) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934; Ord. 2856, passed - -1983)
§ 113.009 PREVIOUSLY LICENSED TAXICAB.
   Owners of taxicabs now licensed by the city shall have 15 days from the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter in which to comply
with the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that, the license fee,
as set out in §
113.007 of this chapter, shall not be required to be paid by said owner to
secure a license under the provisions of this chapter, until the license now
held by such owner has expired.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.140) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934)
§ 113.010 LOST ARTICLES.
   Whenever any package, article, baggage or goods of any kind are left in a
taxicab, the driver or owner of the taxicab shall, upon the discovery of such
package, article, baggage or goods, deliver same to the officer in charge of
the police station of the city, unless such package, article, baggage or goods
shall sooner be delivered to the owner thereof on the order of such owner.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.090) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.011 OFF-DUTY TIME REQUIRED.
   No person, either acting as owner, principal, agent, employee, lessee or
licensee, shall require or permit any driver of any taxicab in the city who has
worked as a taxicab driver for 12 consecutive hours, to continue on duty or to
drive said taxicab until he or she has had eight hours off duty.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.100) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.012 DRIVER; USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR; LICENSE REVOCATION.
   In the event any driver of a taxicab is convicted of any violent crime
against persons, any theft-related crimes, of driving a motor vehicle while
under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs, is convicted for having
liquor or alcohol or cereal malt beverage in his or her possession while
operating a motor vehicle, or is enrolled in a diversion program while being
charged with driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drugs, the license of such taxicab driver will be immediately revoked
and no new license for such taxicab driver shall be issued for a period of five
years from the date of the revocation.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.110) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934; Ord. 2873, passed - -1984)
§ 113.013 RIGHT TO REGULATE.
   The issuance of any license, as provided in this chapter, shall in no manner
abridge or limit the right of the city to hereafter regulate or control the
operation of taxicabs within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.120) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934)
§ 113.014 REGISTRATION AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is the duty of every taxicab driver to register every six months
with the Chief of Police of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.130)
   (B)   No person, whether acting as owner, principal, agent, employee, lessee
or licensee, shall operate or permit to be operated upon the streets of the
city any taxicab without first having procured a license from the City Clerk
which shall be permanently placed in the vehicle of the taxicab. The operator
of the taxicab shall have a license with his or her picture also in his or her
possession at all times.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.150)
(Ord. 1950, passed - -1934; Ord. 2626, passed - -; Ord. 2911, passed - -1985;
Ord. 2942, passed - -1986; Ord. 3473, passed 4-5-2016) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.999 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Each day of operation in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.160) (Ord. 1950, passed - -1934; Ord. 2873, passed - -1984;
Ord. 2911, passed - -1985)
CHAPTER 114: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
Flea Markets
   
114.001   Definition
   
114.002   Operator duties; other regulations
   
114.003   External displays of merchandise in areas other than parking lots
   
114.004   License required
Farmers Markets
   
114.015   Location
   
114.016   Dates, hours of operation
 
   
114.999   Penalty
**** FLEA MARKETS ****
§ 114.001 DEFINITION.
   The term FLEA MARKET is defined to mean a private enterprise open to the
public and operated and managed year-round or seasonally by any person,
partnership, firm or corporation on private property which provides aisles for
the public and spaces or stalls for rental or lease to other persons,
partnerships, firms and corporations desiring to display new and/or used
merchandise for barter and/or sale to the public. This shall also include the
sale of any used merchandise or any mix of new and used merchandise by the flea
market operator which is sold or bartered to the public at a location other
than inside a building. This shall not include short-term displays of
merchandise of a seasonal nature such as live plants and associated products or
outdoor yard ornaments made of non-corrosive material such as concrete. This
shall also not include persons selling new and used automobiles, farm
implements, lawn tractors or other similar products.
(Prior Code, § 5.48.010) (Ord. 3085, passed - -1993)
§ 114.002 OPERATOR DUTIES; OTHER REGULATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of each operator of a flea market to assure that the
flea market conforms to the definition of a flea market as provided in this
subchapter. Each flea market shall conform to all land use regulations, zoning
regulations, Building Codes, Electrical Codes, Plumbing Codes, Gas and Fire
Codes of the city as the same may be applicable to each flea market. It is
unlawful for any flea market to operate in whole or in part on any parking lot
or on any portion of any parking lot if such parking lot or any portion thereof
is accessible to the vehicles of visitors to the flea market.
(Prior Code, § 5.48.020) (Ord. 3085, passed - -1993) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.003 EXTERNAL DISPLAYS OF MERCHANDISE IN AREAS OTHER THAN PARKING LOTS.
   No merchandise, equipment, inoperable vehicles, vehicle parts or any items
for sale or barter shall be stored or displayed outside a building, except
during daylight hours. The flea market operator may display merchandise during
daylight hours consistent with the operational hours of the business in an
external location other than a parking lot. In no event shall the external
display of merchandise by a flea market operator exceed 20% of the interior
space of his or her business building. At the conclusion of the daylight
external display of merchandise, all merchandise must be returned to the
interior portions of the business building of the flea market operator.
(Prior Code, § 5.48.030) (Ord. 3085, passed - -1993) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.004 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   On an annual basis, every flea market operator must apply for a license. An
application for license shall be submitted to the City Clerk. After a review by
the city staff, if the flea market operator’s property is in an area which is
compatible in use as defined in §
114.002 of this chapter, a license will be issued upon the payment of $25 to
the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.48.040) (Ord. 3085, passed - -1993) Penalty, see §
114.999
**** FARMERS MARKETS ****
§ 114.015 LOCATION.
   The governing body of the city hereby establishes the following parameters
and policy relating to the Fort Scott Farmers Market, located at the Fort Scott
Downtown Pavilion, otherwise known as the “Gathering Square Pavilion”, located
between Old Fort Boulevard and Stanton Street on North National Avenue and
adjacent to the Fort Scott Splash Pad.
(Ord. 3767, passed 6-18-2024)
§ 114.016 DATES, HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The governing body of the city hereby grants the Fort Scott Farmers
Market and the Fort Scott Farmers Market Organizing Committee the annual right
of first refusal and access to the Gathering Square Pavilion during the
schedule as set forth below, without any applicable reservation or fees
required to be applied by the city.
   (B)   The city shall ensure applicable signage and/or public notice, lawful
clearing and closure of the Pavilion to regular public access is provided prior
to the operational hours of the Farmers Market: from the first weekend in May
to the last weekend in October:
      (1)   All Tuesdays from the hours of 3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.; and
      (2)   All Saturdays from the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
(Ord. 3767, passed 6-18-2024)
§ 114.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
114.001 through
114.004 of this chapter for which a penalty is not otherwise specifically
provided shall, upon conviction of any such violation, be punished as set out
in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5.48.050) (Ord. 3085, passed - -1993)
CHAPTER 115: GARBAGE COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION
Section
   
115.001   Permit required; exception
   
115.002   Definition
   
115.003   Permit fee
   
115.004   Permit term
   
115.005   Permit application
   
115.006   Permit issuance
   
115.007   Vehicle identification plates
   
115.008   Vehicle requirements
   
115.009   Disposal
   
115.010   Hazardous wastes
 
   
115.999   Penalty
§ 115.001 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, disturb or transport any
garbage through, over or across the streets and alleys of the city without
first securing a permit; provided, however, that, this section shall not apply
to persons who collect and transport commercial garbage produced on commercial
properties occupied by them or their employers or to persons who collect and
transport garbage produced from residential properties occupied by them; and,
provided further, however, that, such persons not required to obtain a permit
hereunder shall comply with all other regulations set forth in this chapter for
the transportation of garbage or trash through, over and across the streets and
alleys of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.40.010) (Ord. 3369, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.002 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the term GARBAGE is putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food.
(Prior Code, § 5.40.020) (Ord. 3369, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 115.003 PERMIT FEE.
   No permit shall be issued unless the applicant therefor shall pay to the
City Clerk a permit fee in the sum of $50 for pickups and $100 for large trucks
per annum for each vehicle used in the collection and transportation of
garbage.
(Prior Code, § 5.40.030) (Ord. 3369, passed 9-15-2009; Ord. 3449, passed 12-16-
2014)
§ 115.004 PERMIT TERM.
   Each permit shall be effective January 1 of the calendar year it is issued
and shall expire on December 31 of the same calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 5.40.040) (Ord. 3369, passed 9-15-2009; Ord. 3436, passed 1-21-
2014)
§ 115.005 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to collect or transport garbage in the city shall make
application for such permit to the City Clerk. Such application shall set forth
the name of the applicant, the make and type of vehicle to be operated for such
collection and transportation, the title number of such vehicle and shall be
accompanied by a certificate of inspection and proof of current automobile
liability insurance and approval of such vehicle by the Codes Department of the
city, issued not more than 15 days prior to the date of application. The City
Manager shall investigate any applicant’s qualifications and ability to
collect, transport and dispose of garbage in a satisfactory manner.
(Prior Code, § 5.40.050) (Ord. 3369, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 115.006 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Upon approval of the application by the City Manager and the granting of a
permit, the City Clerk shall issue a permit upon the payment of the required
permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 5.40.060) (Ord. 3369, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 115.007 VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION PLATES.
   The City Clerk shall issue a receipt, upon payment of the permit fee,
together with a label for each vehicle. The label shall be conspicuously placed
upon the vehicle in a place and position to be clearly visible and in a
condition to be clearly legible, and such label shall be used only on the
vehicle for which it is issued; provided, however, that, such permit label may
be transferred to another vehicle used by the permit holder in the event the
vehicle for which the label was issued ceases to be used in the collection and
transportation of garbage by the permit holder. The transfer of the label may
be effected only after payment to the City Clerk of a transfer fee of $1, and
after a certificate of inspection and approval of such vehicle by the Codes
Department of the city is furnished to the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 5.40.070) (Ord. 3369, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 115.008 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All vehicles used for the transportation of solid waste shall be
maintained in a safe, clean and sanitary condition, and shall be so
constructed, maintained and operated as to prevent spillage of solid waste
therefrom. All vehicles used for transportation of solid waste which contains
semi-liquid or leach ate shall be constructed of suitable material with water-
tight bodies. All vehicles used for the transportation of solid waste shall
have covers of suitable material with fasteners designed to secure all sides of
the cover to the vehicle, which shall be secured whenever the vehicle is
transporting solid waste, or the entire body shall be enclosed, with only
loading hoppers exposed. No solid waste shall be transported in the loading
hoppers.
   (B)   Any vehicle used by any person or corporation for the collection and
transportation of garbage, other than one being used by a person hauling his or
her own garbage, shall be maintained in good mechanical condition and shall
further comply with the certificate of inspection issued by the codes
department of the city if such certificate is required. Any such vehicle shall
be equipped with an enclosed body designed so as to prevent garbage escaping
therefrom.
   (C)   No person shall, at any time, convey, remove or carry away any garbage
upon any street, alley or public grounds of the city unless the same is
conveyed in a water-tight container, securely covered and in such a manner as
to prevent any odor escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 5.40.080) (Ord. 3369, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.009 DISPOSAL.
   Solid waste shall be deposited at a processing facility or disposal area
complying with all requirements of the state or any applicable law of the state
where the processing facility of disposal area is located, and any applicable
federal law, rule or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 5.40.090) (Ord. 3369, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.010 HAZARDOUS WASTES.
   The administrative authority may classify certain wastes as “hazardous
wastes”, which will require special handling and shall be disposed of only in a
manner acceptable to the administrative authority and which will meet all
local, state and federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 5.40.100) (Ord. 3369, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in
§
10.999 of this code of ordinances. If any person shall fail to comply with any
provision of this chapter, the administrative authority may, upon 48 hours’
written notice to such person, revoke and cancel such license to collect or
remove solid waste within the city. In no event will any portion of the license
fee be refunded to the licensee upon revocation of such license.
(Prior Code, § 5.40.110) (Ord. 3369, passed 9-15-2009)
CHAPTER 116: NATURAL GAS WELLS
Section
General Provisions
   
116.001   Definitions
   
116.002   Compliance with statutes and chapter
   
116.003   Exceptions
   
116.004   Drilling prohibited where
   
116.005   Drilling, completion, production and maintenance
   
116.006   Transmitting gas in public way prohibited
Permits; Conditions
   
116.020   Conditions generally
   
116.021   Bond requirements
   
116.022   Insurance requirements
   
116.023   Proof of property ownership
   
116.024   Disposal of materials
   
116.025   Consent of adjoining properties
   
116.026   Application requirements
   
116.027   Fees; denial
   
116.028   Transfer
   
116.029   Revocation conditions
 
   
116.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 116.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Fort Scott, Kansas.
   GAS WELL. Any well drilled, to be drilled or used for the intended or actual
production of natural gas.
   GOVERNING BODY. The governing body of the City of Fort Scott, Kansas.
   OWNER OF FEE SIMPLE INTEREST. The owner, in fee simple, of both the surface
and all minerals in, under and upon the real property upon which any natural
gas well is to be drilled under the terms of any permit as provided by this
chapter.
   PERMIT. A drilling permit, issued or sought to be issued under this chapter,
authorizing the drilling of a natural gas well, as herein defined.
   PERSON. Includes persons, firms, corporations, partnerships or associations.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.010) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982)
§ 116.002 COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTES AND CHAPTER.
   Any gas well hereafter drilled, completed or produced under the terms of
this chapter or any amendment thereto shall, in addition to compliance of the
terms of this chapter, be drilled, completed, produced and operated in
compliance with any state or federal law and in compliance with any applicable
rule or regulation of either.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.020) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.003 EXCEPTIONS.
   Any public building erected or the land used by any department of the city,
county, state or federal government may be used for the drilling, completion or
production of natural gas wells within the city, if the gas well can be
completed in a safe manner.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.030) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982)
§ 116.004 DRILLING PROHIBITED WHERE.
   The drilling, completion or production of natural gas wells within the city
shall be entirely prohibited:
   (A)   At any place within the No. 1 Fire Zone;
   (B)   Within 100 feet of any property line separating properties under
different ownership. unless by joint agreement of the owners of properties on
either side of the property line; or
   (C)   Within 100 feet of any street, alley or utility easement.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.040) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982; Ord. 2902, passed - -1985)
Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.005 DRILLING, COMPLETION, PRODUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The drilling, completion, production, maintenance and operation of a gas
well drilled under a permit issued under this chapter shall be conducted in
compliance with the following rules and regulations and any departure therefrom
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (A)   Surface pipe must be run and set in full compliance with the
applicable rules and regulations of the state’s Corporation Commission, and in
any event at a depth of at least ten feet below any freshwater producing
strata.
   (B)   The pipe through which gas is produced must be solidly cemented from
top to bottom on the outside of the pipe and in compliance with the applicable
rules and regulations of the stat’s Corporation Commission.
   (C)   Adequate precautions shall be taken and necessary wellhead safety
devices used at all times during the drilling, completion, production, repair
and maintenance of the well.
   (D)   A portable-type snow fence at least four feet in height, or other
comparable fencing, will be required around all pits at all times during
drilling, swabbing, repair or maintenance operations. All drilling equipment
during said times will be blocked off by the use of signs and temporary
barricades.
   (E)   Upon completion of a gas well, the wellhead equipment shall be
enclosed within a chain or wire mesh fence six feet in height, supported by
steel pipe or posts at least four inches in diameter, set in concrete to a
depth of at least 18 inches, and spaced not to exceed four feet distance from
each other, and all gates forming a part of the fence shall be kept closed and
locked at all times; except, when in active use by applicant, other comparable
enclosures can be used if approved by the Codes Office of the city.
   (F)   The applicant or holder of a permit pursuant to the terms of this
chapter shall deposit in advance with the City Clerk the estimated cost of
relocation or temporary removal of any utility lines or facilities required in
connection with the drilling, completion, maintenance, repair or operation of
any such well.
   (G)   Gas produced from any well may be saved, stored or confined in an
appropriate holding tank or device to confine the same.
   (H)   No gas produced or permitted to escape from any gas well drilled or
operated under the terms of this chapter shall be permitted to escape the
confines of the well, the wellhead or transmission lines into the atmosphere
and no flares or burning of gas shall be permitted.
   (I)   Earthen pits may be allowed during the period of drilling, completion,
repair or maintenance of any gas well. Drilling mud, water, petroleum and all
types of liquid or solid waste may be stored in the pits, but must be removed
from the premises and disposed of in accordance with law, none of the afore-
referenced substances shall be allowed to escape from the earthen pits or other
water- tight tanks or vessels provided.
   (J)   Operations for the drilling, completion and equipping of any well to
be drilled under the terms of this chapter shall be completed within a period
of not to exceed 20 days from the date of commencement thereof, and all
drilling equipment, pulling and swabbing equipment removed on or before the
expirations of such period.
   (K)   Operations with respect to the drilling, completion, equipping,
repairing and maintenance of any well drilling under the terms of this chapter
shall be conducted only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on
Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays.
   (L)   The Building Inspector of the city and other officers, agents and
employees of the city shall have the right at all times to go upon the
applicant’s premises for the purpose of inspecting any gas well and determining
compliance with or violation of the terms of this chapter.
   (M)   All production equipment, structures and premises surrounding any well
site shall at all times be maintained and kept in a clean, sanitary condition,
free of debris, and equipment not being immediately utilized in connection with
production from said well shall be removed from the property.
   (N)   The holder of any permit authorized hereunder shall renew such permit
on a calendar-year basis and pay an annual fee therefor to the office of the
City Clerk in the sum of $100 and at the same time file insurance certificate
renewals as required by §
116.022 of this chapter.
   (O)   The maximum depth of any well shall be 500 feet below grade.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.150) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.006 TRANSMITTING GAS IN PUBLIC WAY PROHIBITED.
   The use of city streets, city alleys and city dedicated, reserved and
acquired utility easements by any person or owner of a gas well, other than the
city, for the transmission of natural gas, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.160) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
116.999
**** PERMITS; CONDITIONS ****
§ 116.020 CONDITIONS GENERALLY.
   Each of the following §§
116.021 through
116.025 of this chapter shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of a
drilling permit under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.050) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982)
§ 116.021 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   The filing by the applicant of a corporate surety bond approved by the City
Clerk, executed by a bonding or surety company authorized to do business in the
state, in the amount of $50,000 payable to the city, conditioned upon the full
and faithful compliance with all of the terms and provisions of this chapter
and the conditions of the permit authorized hereby, and saving the city and
holding it free and harmless of and from all judgments for damages sustained by
the city in the event that any claim for damage or injury is maintained against
the city as a result of the activities of the applicant, his, her or its
agents, servants, employees or persons in privity with applicant in the
drilling, completion or plugging of a gas well.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.060) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982)
§ 116.022 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The filing by applicant of a policy or policies of indemnity
insurance, or a certificate of such policy or policies issued by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the state and naming the city as a co-
insured; insuring and providing indemnity for judgments and defense of actions
for injuries, loss or damage for which the applicant, applicant’s agents,
servants and employees or persons in privity with applicant may be liable as
the result of the drilling, completion, operation or maintenance of any gas
well or any structure, apparatus, machinery or facilities appurtenant thereto
or used in connection therewith.
   (B)   (1)   Such insurance coverage shall be in an amount not less than
$500,000 aggregate for injury and property damage, per occurrence.
      (2)   Such insurance policy, policies or certificates thereof shall be
accompanied by a certificate of the insurer that such insurance is in full
force and shall not be cancelled without 30 days’ written notice thereof to the
City Clerk.
      (3)   Such insurance shall be maintained continuously in effect during
the entire period during which the applicant, permittee or persons in privity
with applicant and permittee are conducting drilling, completion, maintenance
or production operations with respect to any gas well drilled under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.070) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982)
§ 116.023 PROOF OF PROPERTY OWNERSHIP.
   The applicant shall have furnished satisfactory evidence that applicant is
the fee simple owner of the surface and minerals in, upon and under the real
estate described in the application and upon which the gas well proposed in the
application is to be drilled.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.080) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982)
§ 116.024 DISPOSAL OF MATERIALS.
   The application shall state and describe the manner and method by which
applicant shall dispose of any liquefied petroleum or liquid waste produced
from the well during the drilling and completion thereof, as well as the
production or maintenance thereof, such disposal to be in accordance and in
compliance with all applicable rules and regulations of the state’s Corporation
Commission, the state’s Department of Health and Environment and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.090) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982)
§ 116.025 CONSENT OF ADJOINING PROPERTIES.
   The application shall be accompanied by the written consent to the granting
of the application by the owners of all adjoining properties; provided,
however, if such consent cannot be obtained by the applicant, the applicant may
file an application for an exception to this requirement with the Board of
Zoning Appeals and if, after hearing, with notice of such adjoining property
owners, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall determine such consent has been
unreasonably withheld, this consent requirement may be waived by order of the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.100) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982)
§ 116.026 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The application for any permit to drill a gas well under the terms of this
chapter shall contain and include:
   (A)   Satisfactory evidence that the conditions precedent set forth in this
chapter have been complied with;
   (B)   A map or plat of applicant’s property and the precise and definite
location thereon of the well to be drilled pursuant to the application, showing
the ownership boundaries of all land adjoining the applicant’s property and the
proposed drill site, together with evidence of the names of said owners and
their addresses; showing the location of all streets, alleys, public areas,
utility easements and structures adjoining the applicant’s property and the
proposed drill site, and the proposed location of transmission lines from the
proposed drill site to the point or points on applicant’s property where it is
proposed or expected that natural gas produced from the gas well will be
utilized;
   (C)   A statement outlining the applicant’s plans for the handling and
disposal of all drilling fluids, basic sediment, oil field brines, liquid
petroleum, water, other deleterious substances and wastes that may be produced
in connection with the drilling, completion, operation and maintenance of the
proposed well, which plan shall be reasonable, adequate, practical and in
accordance with the highest degree of care of the industry, as well as the
specific terms and conditions of this chapter;
   (D)   A written undertaking of the applicant:
      (1)   In the event a well is either non-productive or abandoned, that
within 60 days after the determination thereof or abandonment thereof, all
tools, equipment and machinery used in connection with the drilling,
completion, production or maintenance of the well shall be removed;
      (2)   The premises will be fully restored to its original condition as
soon as practicable and in no case more than 60 days after such determination;
and
      (3)   The well will be plugged in accordance with rules and regulations
of the state’s Corporation Commission.
   (E)   A written undertaking of the applicant that if such well is productive
and completed, only the tools, machinery, structures and equipment necessary
for the normal daily operation thereof shall be maintained at the well site,
and that the premises surrounding the immediate well site shall be restored to
its original condition as nearly as practicable and in no case more than 60
days after the completion of the well;
   (F)   The affidavit of applicant, or authorized agent for applicant,
evidencing the fact that applicant has given written notice by mail or personal
delivery of applicant’s intention to file an application for a permit to drill
a well to the record owners of all the surface area adjoining the applicant’s
land and the proposed drill site. In case the applicant is unable to locate any
such owner or owners, this notice requirement may be satisfied by the affidavit
of the applicant or applicant’s authorized agent to the effect that applicant
is unable, after diligent inquiry, to locate such owner or owners; and
   (G)   The applicant shall have published in a form prescribed by the City
Clerk, in the official city newspaper, one publication at least five days prior
to the filing of the application, of a notice of applicant’s intent to file an
application for a permit to drill a gas well pursuant to the terms of this
chapter and describing with particularity in the notice the legal description
of applicant’s property upon which such well is proposed to be drilled and the
precise location thereon of the proposed drill site.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.110) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982)
§ 116.027 FEES; DENIAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to commence operations for the drilling,
completion or production of a gas well within the corporate limits of the city
without first having lawfully obtained from the city a permit therefor pursuant
to this chapter and any amendments thereto. The applicant shall file with the
City Clerk an application in writing on a form approved and prescribed by the
City Attorney and City Clerk, and shall at the time of such filing deposit with
the City Clerk a fee of $250, which shall be credited to the General Operation
Fund. If the application is denied and no permit granted upon the application
within 60 days from the date of such filing, $100 of the deposit shall be
returned to the applicant and $150 shall be retained by the City Clerk, as an
application fee to provide for the cost of the processing and investigation of
such application and shall be credited to the above-mentioned fund.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.120) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.028 TRANSFER.
   Any permit issued under the terms of this chapter shall not be assignable to
any person or persons not owning the fee simple title to the surface and
minerals in, under and upon the property for which the permit was issued; and
any permit issued and being utilized shall automatically be transferred to any
subsequent owner of the fee simple interest provided all of the terms and
conditions of this chapter continue to be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.130) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982)
§ 116.029 REVOCATION CONDITIONS.
   The violation of or breach of any of the terms or conditions of this chapter
or the ceasing to exist of any of the conditions precedent listed in this
chapter, or the breach of any of the terms or conditions of any permit issued
pursuant hereunder. Such revocation shall take place only upon hearing by the
governing body, of which hearing the permittee shall be given at least ten
days’ written notice by mail or personal delivery. Mailing of such notice to
the last known mailing address of a permittee shall satisfy the requirements of
notice made in this section.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.140) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982)
§ 116.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished pursuant to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5.44.170) (Ord. 2834, passed - -1982)
CHAPTER 117: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
117.001   Cable television regulations established
§ 117.001 CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The city will follow the FCC rate regulations in its regulation of the
basic service rates and charges of the company and any other cable television
system operating in the city, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent
provisions in the franchise.
   (B)   In connection with such regulation, the city will ensure a reasonable
opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties.
   (C)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, is authorized to execute on behalf
of the city and file with the FCC such certification forms or other instruments
as are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC rate regulations in order to
enable the city to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Prior Code, § 5.52.010) (Ord. 3088, passed - -1994)
CHAPTER 118: TOBACCO
Section
   
118.001   Purchase, possession by minors
   
118.002   Selling, furnishing to minors
   
118.003   Defenses
 
   
118.999   Penalty
§ 118.001 PURCHASE, POSSESSION BY MINORS.
   (A)   No person who is under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to
purchase cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, liquid nicotine or tobacco
products.
   (B)   No person who is under 18 years of age shall possess or attempt to
possess cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, liquid nicotine or tobacco products.
(Prior Code, § 9.40.010) (Ord. 3139, passed - -1996; Ord. 3548, passed 6-18-
2019) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.002 SELLING, FURNISHING TO MINORS.
   No person shall, directly or indirectly:
   (A)   Sell, give or furnish, or attempt to sell, give or furnish any
cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, liquid nicotine or tobacco products to any
person under 18 years of age: or
   (B)   Purchase or attempt to purchase any cigarettes, electronic cigarettes,
liquid nicotine or tobacco products for any person under 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 9.40.020) (Ord. 3139, passed - -1996; Ord. 3548, passed 6-18-
2019) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.003 DEFENSES.
   (A)   In determining the penalty to be imposed for a violation of §
118.002(B) of this chapter by a licensed retail dealer whose employee sold,
furnished or distributed the cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, liquid nicotine
or tobacco products, the court shall consider it to be a mitigating
circumstances if the employee had completed a training program, approved by the
Secretary of Revenue or the Secretary’s designee, in avoiding sale, furnishing
or distributing of cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, liquid nicotine or
tobacco products to persons under the 18 years of age.
   (B)   It shall be a defense to a prosecution under §
118.002(B) of this chapter if:
      (1)   The defendant is a licensed retail dealer or a person authorized by
law to distribute samples;
      (2)   The defendant sold, furnished or distributed the cigarettes,
electronic cigarettes, liquid nicotine or tobacco products to the person under
18 years of age with reasonable cause to believe the person was of legal age to
purchase or receive cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, liquid nicotine or
tobacco products;
      (3)   To purchase or receive the cigarettes, electronic cigarettes,
liquid nicotine or tobacco products, the person under 18 years of age exhibited
to the defendants a driver’s licenses, state non-driver’s identification card
of other official or purporting to establish that the person was of legal age
to purchase or receive cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, liquid nicotine or
tobacco product;
      (4)   The defendant engages in the lawful sale, furnishing or
distribution or cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, liquid nicotine or tobacco
products by mail; and
      (5)   The defendant sold, furnished or distributed the cigarettes,
electronic cigarettes, liquid nicotine or tobacco products to the person by
mail only after the person had provided to the defendant an unsworn
declaration, conforming to K.S.A. 53-601 and amendments thereto, that the
person was 18 or more years of age.
(Prior Code, § 9.40.030) (Ord. 3139, passed - -1996; Ord. 3548, passed 6-18-
2019)
§ 118.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, individual, partnership, corporation or association who
violates §
118.001 of this chapter is guilty of an ordinance cigarette, electronic
cigarettes, liquid nicotine or tobacco infraction for which the fine shall be
$100.
   (B)   Any person, individual, partnership, corporation or association who
violates §
118.002 of this chapter is guilty of an ordinance violation and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a minimum fine up to $200.
(Prior Code, § 9.40.040) (Ord. 3139, passed - -1996; Ord. 3548, passed 6-18-
2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND DECENCY
      
131.   CURFEW
      
132.   LITTERING
      
133.   DRUGS AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND DECENCY
Section
   
130.001   Uniform Public Offense Code incorporated
   
130.002   Expectoration
   
130.003   Noise
   
130.004   Billposting
   
130.005   Firearms; discharging and possession
 
   
130.999   Penalty
§ 130.001 UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating
public offenses within the corporate limits of the city that certain code known
as the “Uniform Public Offense Code, 41st Edition,” prepared and published in
book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas. One official
copy of said Uniform Public Offense Code shall be marked or stamped “Official
Copy as Adopted by Ord. 3793”, and to which shall be attached a copy of the
ordinance codified herein and filed with the City Clerk to be open to
inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 3793, passed 1-6-2026)
§ 130.002 EXPECTORATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to spit or expectorate upon the floor, steps
or sides, or any portion thereof, of any streetcar or public conveyance, or
upon any hallway, stairway or steps, or upon any part of a public building, or
upon any sidewalk or crosswalk within the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.010) (Ord. 1086, passed - -1909) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.003 NOISE.
   (A)   Excessive noise. It is hereby found:
      (1)   The making and creation of excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud
noises within the limits of the city is a condition which has existed for some
time in certain areas of the city;
      (2)   Excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noises which are prolonged
and unusual in their time, place and use affect and are a detriment to public
health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of the residents
of the city; and
      (3)   It is necessary and in the public interest for the provisions and
prohibitions hereinafter contained to be enacted, and it is further declared
that the provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are in
pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity and the peace and quiet of
the city and its inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.010)
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall unreasonably make, continue or cause
to be made or continued, any noise disturbance. Non-commercial public speaking
and public assembly activities conducted on any public space or public right-
of-way shall be exempt from the operation of this section. The following acts,
and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of this section:
      (1)   Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any
radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier or
similar device which produces, reproduces or amplifies sound:
         (a)   Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day
in such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a real property
boundary;
         (b)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance at 50 feet (15
meters) from such device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a public
right-of-way or public space or in a boat on public waters;
         (c)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance to any person
other than the operator of the device, when operated by any passenger on a
common carrier; and
         (d)   This section shall not apply to non-commercial spoken language
covered under division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Using or operating loudspeakers/public address systems as follows:
         (a)   For any non-commercial purpose, any loudspeaker, public address
system or similar device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the
following day, such that the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across
a residential real property boundary;
         (b)   For any commercial purpose, any loudspeakers, public address
system or similar device:
            1.   Such that the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance
across a real property boundary; and
            2.   Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following
day on a public right-of-way or public space.
      (3)   Offering for sale anything by shouting or outcry within any
residential or commercial area of the city (except by permit issued by the City
Clerk and/or except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.);
      (4)   Owning, possessing or harboring any animal or bird which frequently
or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks or makes other sounds
which create a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary;
      (5)   Loading, unloading, opening, closing or other handling of boxes,
crates, containers, trash, building materials or similar objects between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day in such a manner as to
cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary;
      (6)   Operating or permitting the operation of any tools or equipment
used in construction, drilling or demolition work:
         (a)   Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day,
seven days a week, such that the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance
across a residential real property boundary, except for emergency work of
public service utilities;
         (b)   At any other time such that the sound level at or across a real
property boundary exceeds 65 dba. This division (B)(6) shall not apply to
construction hand tools (to include power tools) that are mobile in nature and
are being used at a field construction site for temporary construction
purposes; and
         (c)   This division (B) shall not apply to the use of domestic power
tools.
      (7)   Repairing, rebuilding, modifying or testing any motor vehicle,
motorcycle or motorboat in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across
a residential real property boundary.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.020)
(Ord. 3213, passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.004 BILLPOSTING.
   The posting, sticking, painting, branding or stamping, or causing to be
struck, painted, branded or stamped of any printed, written, painted or other
advertisements, bills, notices, signs or posters upon any pavement, sidewalk or
bridge floor within the city is prohibited and declared unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 9.26.010) (Ord. 1078, passed - -1908) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.005 FIREARMS; DISCHARGING AND POSSESSION.
   (A)   Discharging firearms.
      (1)   Prohibited; exceptions. From and after the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this division (A), the discharge of firearms within the
city, except in defense of person or property, or by duly authorized police or
peace officers or persons duly authorized by the Chief of Police of the city,
in writing, to so discharge the same, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9.46.010)
      (2)   Discharging certain weapons prohibited. From and after the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this division (A), the discharging
of air rifles, slingshots and bows and arrows by any person within the limits
of the city is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9.46.020)
   (B)   Possessing firearms prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful to possess a firearm on the grounds of or within the
following buildings owned or leased by the city:
         (a)   1 E. 3rd Street, known as City Hall;
         (b)   1869 Indian Road, known as the Fort Scott Municipal Airport
terminal building;
         (c)   723 Scott, known as the Fort Scott Swimming Pool;
         (d)   400 N. Hill, known as the Animal Shelter;
         (e)   1604 S. National, known as the Public Safety Center;
         (f)   201 S. National, known as the Public Library;
         (g)   602 Ivy, known as the Asphalt Plant;
         (h)   1 E. 3rd Street, known as Memorial Auditorium;
         (i)   735 Scott, knows as Buck Run Community Center;
         (j)   601 N. Barbee, known as the Wastewater Treatment Facility;
         (k)   910 Burkel, known as the Water Treatment Plant;
         (l)   2104 Sidney, known as the Public Works Maintenance Building; and
         (m)   Any other city-owned or leased building if said building is
conspicuously marked with signs stating that firearms are prohibited in such
building.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to:
         (a)   Duly authorized law enforcement officers, fire personnel
authorized to carry a firearm pursuant to K.S.A. 31-157 and amendments thereto,
or military personnel when engaged in their duties to the extent permitted by
federal or state law;
         (b)   Public officers or public employees trained and duly licenses in
firearm safety while on the grounds of or within the Fort Scott Municipal
Airport terminal building for the purpose of performing periodic deer harvests;
and/or
         (c)   Attorneys when the firearm is possessed solely for the purpose
of attempting to submit the firearm into evidence or examining the firearm in
the course of a pending court proceeding.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, a FIREARM is any weapon designed
or having the capacity to propel a projectile by force of an explosion or
combustion that is calculated to or reasonably likely to produce death or
serious bodily injury.
      (4)   Any person who enters the grounds of or a building listed herein
with a firearm in violation of this section shall be required to forfeit the
firearm, either temporarily or permanently, and may be required to leave the
premises regardless of the public nature of the grounds or building.
(Prior Code, § 9.48.010)
(Ord. 2231, passed - -1956; Ord. 3317, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Anyone so offending per §
130.002 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.010)
   (C)   Violation of §
130.003 of this chapter is a misdemeanor punishable under §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.030)
   (D)   Any person or persons violating the prohibitions contained in §
130.004 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9.26.010)
   (E)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
130.005(A) of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9.46.030)
      (2)   Violation of §
130.005(B) of this chapter shall be punished under §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9.48.010)
(Ord. 1078, passed - -1908; Ord. 1086, passed - -1909; Ord. 3213, passed - -
2001; Ord. 3317, passed - -2007)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.001   Definition
   
131.002   Hours; exceptions
   
131.003   Breaking curfew; permitting or allowing prohibited
   
131.004   Suspension; procedure
 
   
131.999   Penalty
§ 131.001 DEFINITION.
   As used in this chapter, PERSON means a parent, legal guardian or other
person exercising legal custody of a child.
(Prior Code, § 9.38.010) (Ord. 2417, passed - -1969)
§ 131.002 HOURS; EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any child under the age of 18 years to wander, lounge,
loaf, loiter or play in, about or upon any public street, alley, sidewalk,
vacant lot, public place or other place normally accessible to the general
public for public use, whether on foot or in a vehicle or by any other means,
after the hour of 12:01 a.m. and before the hour of 6:00 a.m., unless
accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or other person exercising legal
custody of such child; provided, however, that, such prohibition shall not
apply to those children under the age of 18 years who are en route by the most
direct and accessible route between their homes and authorized places of
employment, nor to those who are en route by the most direct and accessible
route from a place of employment, authorized entertainment or authorized place
of attendance to their residences; provided further that, the term AUTHORIZED,
as used in this section, shall denote prior authorization by a parent, legal
guardian or other person exercising legal custody.
(Prior Code, § 9.38.020) (Ord. 2417, passed - -1969) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.003 BREAKING CURFEW; PERMITTING OR ALLOWING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any parent, legal guardian or other person lawfully
entitled to the care, custody and control of any child under the age of 18
years to suffer, permit or allow any such child to wander, lounge, loaf, loiter
or play in, about or upon any public street, alley, sidewalk, vacant lot,
public place or other place normally accessible to the general public for
public use, after the hour of 12:01 a.m. and before the hour of 6:00 a.m.,
unless accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or other person lawfully
entitled to the care, custody and control of such child.
(Prior Code, § 9.38.030) (Ord. 2417, passed - -1969) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.004 SUSPENSION; PROCEDURE.
   The governing body of the city, on specific occasions and in response to
written requests submitted not less than three calendar days prior to the
occasion, shall have the authority to suspend, by official proclamation
published in the official city newspaper, the hour of guideline as stated in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.38.040) (Ord. 2417, passed - -1969)
§ 131.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9.38.050) (Ord. 2417, passed - -1969)
CHAPTER 132: LITTERING
Section
   
132.001   Short title
   
132.002   Definitions
   
132.003   Litter in public places
   
132.004   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
132.005   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles
   
132.006   Litter caused by truck loads
   
132.007   Litter in parks
   
132.008   Litter in lakes and ponds
   
132.009   Litter on occupied private property; owner to maintain
   
132.010   Litter on vacant lots
   
132.011   Exemptions
   
132.012   Containers
   
132.013   Collection; license required
   
132.014   Clearing litter from open private property by city
   
132.015   Frequency of pickup
 
   
132.999   Penalty
§ 132.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Fort Scott Anti-Litter
Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.010) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 132.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. “Garbage”, “refuse”, and “rubbish”, as defined herein, and all other
waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to
create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with federal regulation. This shall also conclude any
periodical or current magazine regularly published with not less than four
issues per year and sold to the public.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes or commercial
purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or
vacant, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps,
vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building
or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes (except body
waste), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
non-combustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.020) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 132.003 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place within the city, except in public receptacles, in authorized
private receptacles for collection, or in official city dumps.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.030) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.004 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.040) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.005 LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.050) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.006 LITTER CAUSED BY TRUCK LOADS.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to present any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.060) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.007 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city, except
in public receptacles and in such amounts that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or
upon any street or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.070) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.008 LITTER IN LAKES AND PONDS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any pond, lake, stream, or any
other body of water in a park or elsewhere within the city or upon any property
controlled or owned by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.080) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.009 LITTER ON OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY; OWNER TO MAINTAIN.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by such person or not; except that, the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other
public place or upon any private property.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.100)
   (B)   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that, this
division (B) shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private
receptacles for collection.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.110)
(Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.010 LITTER ON VACANT LOTS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant property
private or public within the city, whether owned by such person or not.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.120) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.011 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the distribution of mail
by the United States, nor to newspapers; except that, newspapers shall be
placed on private in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.090) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 132.012 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Adequate required. The occupant of every dwelling unit and every
commercial generator producing solid waste within the corporate limits of the
city shall provide sufficient and adequate containers for the storage of all
solid waste ordinarily accumulated at such place during the intervals between
collection; which containers shall be maintained in good repair.
   (B)   Residential solid waste. Residential solid waste shall be stored in
containers of not less than 20 gallons in nominal capacity. Containers shall be
fitted with a lid and shall be properly covered at all times, except when
depositing waste therein or removing the contents thereof. The container shall
be of sturdy construction. Galvanized metal containers, or rubber, fiberglass
or plastic containers which do not become brittle in cold weather may be used.
Disposable solid waste containers with suitable frames or containers as
approved by the administrative authority may also be used for storage of
residential solid waste. The occupant of every dwelling unit and two-family
dwelling units shall keep the solid waste containers and area surrounding them
in a clean, neat and sanitary condition.
   (C)   Commercial and industrial solid waste. Commercial and industrial solid
waste shall be stored in solid waste containers as approved by the
administrative authority. The containers shall be covered at all times, except
when depositing waste therein or removing the contents thereof. The solid waste
container must be placed on a pad of sufficient strength to hold the weight of
a fully loaded container, with all new solid waste container pads to be
screened. The owners of such premises shall keep the solid waste containers and
the area surrounding them in a clean, neat and sanitary condition at all times
and shall maintain the container screening in good repair.
   (D)   Bulky rubbish and construction and demolition waste. Containers used
for bulky rubbish and construction and demolition waste shall be covered at all
times during transportation. The cover may be constructed of metal, canvas,
vinyl, netting or other material approved by the administrative authority. No
person shall place paper, cardboard, light weight plastic or other solid waste
which has the potential for becoming airborne or any material that has the
potential of becoming leachate in an uncovered bulky rubbish container.
   (E)   Unapproved. Containers other than those authorized by divisions (A),
(B), (C) and (D) above shall be collected together along with their contents
and disposed of.
   (F)   Multi-family dwellings. The owners of all multiple-family dwellings
shall purchase or contract with a licensed solid waste collector for an
adequate container to be placed on the site for disposal of tenants’ solid
waste and contract with a licensed solid waste collector for the collection,
transportation, and disposal of such solid waste pursuant to this chapter. The
solid waste container must be placed on a pad of sufficient strength to hold
the weight of a fully loaded container, with all new solid waste container pads
to be screened. The owners of such premises shall keep the solid waste
containers and the area surrounding them in a clean, neat and sanitary
condition at all times and shall maintain the container screening in good
repair.
   (G)   Storage. Residential solid waste containers shall be stored behind the
dwelling unit and upon the private property of the residential premises.
Commercial solid waste containers shall be stored upon private property, unless
the owner shall have been granted written permission from the city to use
public property for such purposes. The storage site shall be well drained and
fully accessible to collection equipment, public health personnel and fire
inspection personnel.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.130) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.013 COLLECTION; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Contract for service. The occupant of every dwelling unit and
two-family dwelling units and the owners of every multiple-family dwelling and
two-family dwelling in the city shall contract or otherwise agree with a
licensed solid waste collector to collect all solid waste generated thereby.
The occupant of every dwelling unit and two-family dwelling units may collect,
transport or haul his, her or their own solid waste to a facility licensed by
the state to receive such solid waste; provided that, such solid waste is
transported or hauled at least once every seven days.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial generator. Each commercial and industrial
generator shall provide for the proper collection of solid waste, and that
service shall be maintained by either the owner with vehicles as required by §
115.008 of this code of ordinances, or by contract with a licensed solid waste
collector.
      (3)   Placement. Solid waste containers, as required by this chapter for
the storage of residential solid waste, shall be place at the curb, street edge
or alley for collection. Any solid waste containers or any other solid waste
permitted by the article to be placed at the curb or street edge for collection
shall not be so placed until the regularly scheduled collection day or evening
before.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.140)
   (B)   No person shall collect, transport or haul over any of the streets or
alleys of the city or dispose of any solid waste accumulated in the city
without first receiving a license issued by the city, except this division (B)
shall not be constructed to apply to individuals collecting, transporting or
hauling their own household solid waste and/or recyclable materials, the Street
Department or other departments of the city, nor to tree trimmers or tree
surgeons; provided, however, that, such persons shall comply with all
regulations provided by this chapter for the transportation of solid waste over
the streets and alleys.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.150)
(Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.014 CLEARING LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY CITY.
   (A)   Notice to remove. The Codes Officer is the authorized agent of the
city is hereby authorized and empowered to notify the owner of any open or
vacant private property within the city or the agent of such owner to properly
dispose of litter located on such owner’s property. Such notice shall be by
registered mail, addressed to said owner at his or her last known address.
   (B)   Action upon non-compliance. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of
any owner or agent so notified, to properly dispose of litter under §
132.013 of this chapter within ten days after receipt of written notice
provided for in division (A) above, or within ten days after the date of such
notice in the event the same is returned to the city’s Post Office Department
because of its inability to make delivery thereof; provided, the same was
properly authorized and empowered to pay for the disposing of such litter or to
order its disposal by the city.
   (C)   Charge included in tax bill. When the city has effected the removal of
such litter or has paid for its removal, the actual costs thereof shall be
charged to the owner of such property on the next regular tax bill forwarded to
such owner by the city, and said charge shall be due and payable by said owner
at the time of payment of such tax bill.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.160) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009)
§ 132.015 FREQUENCY OF PICKUP.
   All litter must be removed from all private premises at least once every
seven days.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.170) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in
§
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.180) (Ord. 3370, passed 9-15-2009)
CHAPTER 133: DRUGS AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
Section
Methamphetamine Precursor Drugs
   
133.001   Findings
   
133.002   Definitions
   
133.003   Sale prohibited
   
133.004   Exceptions
   
133.005   Prima facie evidence
   
133.006   Reporting theft
 
   
133.999   Penalty
**** METHAMPHETAMINE PRECURSOR DRUGS ****
§ 133.001 FINDINGS.
   The Commission of the city has found the manufacture, transportation,
possession and sale of methamphetamine to be inherently dangerous and that the
chemical precursors of methamphetamine and the byproducts and wastes of
methamphetamine production are inherently dangerous and injurious to the public
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city, regulation of the sale
of the chemical precursors to methamphetamine production, such as ephedrine
products and pseudoephedrine products, is necessary to protect the citizens of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.34.010) (Ord. 3431, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 133.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   EPHEDRINE. All forms of ephedrine, ephedrine hydrochloride and all
combinations of these chemicals and any methamphetamine precursor drug
containing these chemicals.
   METHAMPHETAMINE PRECURSOR DRUG. Any drug or substance used to manufacture
methamphetamine that contains pseudoephedrine or ephedrine.
   PACKAGE. Any number of pills, tablets, capsules, caplets or individual units
of a substance held within a container intended for sale.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, trust, limited liability
company, firm, association or other entity.
   PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. All forms of pseudoephedrine, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride
and all combinations of these chemicals and any methamphetamine precursor drug
containing these chemicals.
   SELL. To knowingly furnish, give away, exchange, transfer, deliver,
surrender or supply, whether for monetary gain or not.
(Prior Code, § 8.34.020) (Ord. 3431, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 133.003 SALE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be illegal for any person to sell, deliver or distribute ephedrine,
pseudoephedrine and pseudoephedrine or ephedrine containing products, their
salts, their optical isomers or salts of their optical isomers except as set
forth in the specific exceptions contained in §
133.004 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.34.030) (Ord. 3431, passed 9-17-2013) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.004 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Ephedrine, pseudoephedrine and pseudoephedrine or ephedrine containing
products, their salts, their optical isomers or salts of their optical isomers
may be sold by a Kansas-licensed pharmacist after being authorized to do so by
a written prescription from a physician or other healthcare professional
licensed by the State of Kansas or any other state to write prescriptions.
   (B)   Ephedrine, pseudoephedrine and pseudoephedrine or ephedrine containing
products, their salts, their optical isomers or salts of their optical isomers
may be distributed by a licensed physician within the physician’s office, or
any clinic, nursing home or other licensed healthcare facility upon the orders
of a physician or other healthcare professional licensed by the State of Kansas
or any other state to write prescriptions.
   (C)   This section regulating ephedrine, pseudoephedrine or other
methamphetamine precursor drugs shall not apply to the sale of animal feed
containing ephedrine or dietary supplement products containing naturally
occurring or herbal ephedra or extracts of herbal ephedra.
(Prior Code, § 8.34.040) (Ord. 3431, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 133.005 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   It shall be prima facie proof that a substance is regulated by this section
if the substance is contained in its original packaging and is labeled as being
or containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine.
(Prior Code, § 8.34.050) (Ord. 3431, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 133.006 REPORTING THEFT.
   (A)   All thefts, shortages, disappearances, miscounts or other losses of
ephedrine, pseudoephedrine or other methamphetamine precursor drugs shall be
reported to the Police Department of the city within 24 hours of discovery.
   (B)   Any person selling ephedrine, pseudoephedrine or other methamphetamine
precursor drugs shall report any difference between the quantity of the
aforementioned drugs shipped and the quantity received to the Police Department
of the city within 24 hours of discovery.
(Prior Code, § 8.34.060) (Ord. 3431, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 133.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every act or omission constituting a violation of any of the
provisions of §§
133.001 through
133.006 of this chapter by any agent or employee of any person shall be deemed
and held to be a act of such person, and said person shall be punishable in the
same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him or her
or it personally; provided, such an act or omission was within the scope of
employment or the scope of authority of such agent or employee. Each such
violation of §§
133.001 through
133.006 of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense. Violation of §§
133.001 through
133.006 of this chapter shall be considered and punished as a Class A
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8.34.070) (Ord. 3431, passed 9-17-2013)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
153.   MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS
      
154.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
155.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
156.   TREES
      
157.   AIRPORT REGULATIONS
      
158.   SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
      
159.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
Codes Adopted
   
150.001   Residential Code
   
150.002   Building Code
   
150.003   Mechanical Code
   
150.004   Property Maintenance Code
   
150.005   Fuel Code
   
150.006   Plumbing Code
Electrical Code
   
150.020   Adopted
   
150.021   Definitions
   
150.022   Board of Electrical Examiners of Electricians; meetings
   
150.023   License application
   
150.024   Electrical work permit
   
150.025   Electrical contractors and electricians license; application;
examination; fees; non- resident licenses
   
150.026   Bond; insurance
   
150.027   Electrical Inspector; appointment; duties; authority
   
150.028   Inspections; requests
   
150.029   Defective wiring
   
150.030   Electrical work and installation; rules
   
150.031   Appeal Board
   
150.032   Liability
 
   
150.999   Penalty
**** CODES ADOPTED ****
§ 150.001 RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   The following documents, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk, marked and designated as “2012 International Code Council
Residential Code” are adopted as codes of the city and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said codes on file
in the office of the City Clerk are referred to, adopted and made a part of
this section as if fully set out.
(Prior Code, § 15.03.010) (Ord. 3344, passed - -2008; Ord. 3503, passed 5-16-
2017)
§ 150.002 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adopted. The following documents, three copies of which are on file in
the office of the City Clerk, marked and designated as “2012 International
Existing Building Code” are adopted as codes of the city and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said codes on
file in the office of the City Clerk are referred to, adopted and made a part
of this section as if fully set out.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.010)
   (B)   Additions, insertions and changes. The following insertion and
deletion shall be made in the named section of said code:
      (1)   Addition of “fire zone, as established by §§
154.001 and
154.002”;
      (2)   Section 107, pages 1-6, of said code will contain the following
table of fees for permits to begin for new construction:
 
$0 to 24.99                            $0
$25 to 99.99                           $1
$100 to 199.99                         $2
$200 to 499.99                         $5
$500 to 999.99                         $10
                                       The sum of $10, plus the sum of $1 for
$1,000 or more                         each $1,000 or fraction thereof for
                                       total valuation in excess of $1,000
Permit fee for additions or alteration $0
to existing building
 
      (3)   Plan review fees for additions or alterations shall be 65% of the
building permit fee, based on the fee schedule for new construction.
      (4)   Paragraph 802.1. of the 2006 International Existing Building code
is amended to read as follows:
      High-rise buildings: Any building having occupied floors more than 80
feet above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access shall comply with
the requirements of Section 802.1.1 and 802.1.2.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.020)
(Ord. 2976, passed - -1988; Ord. 2843, passed - -1982; Ord. 2755, passed - -
1982; Ord. 3118, passed - -1995; Ord. 3147, passed - -1997; Ord. 3340, passed -
-2008; Ord. 3358, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 3361, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 3500,
passed 5-16-2017; Ord. 3506, passed 5-16-2017)
§ 150.003 MECHANICAL CODE.
   The following documents, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk, marked and designated as “2012 International Mechanical Code”
are adopted as codes of the city and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said codes on file in the office
of the City Clerk are referred to, adopted and made a part of this section as
if fully set out.
(Prior Code, § 15.05.010) (Ord. 3337, passed - -2008; Ord. 3504, passed 5-16-
2017)
§ 150.004 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The following documents, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk, marked and designated as “2012 International Property
Maintenance Code” are adopted as codes of the city and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said codes on file
in the office of the City Clerk are referred to, adopted and made a part of
this section as if fully set out.
(Prior Code, § 15.06.010) (Ord. 3338, passed - -2008; Ord. 3507, passed 5-16-
2017)
§ 150.005 FUEL CODE.
   The following documents, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk, marked and designated as “2012 International Fuel Gas Code” are
adopted as codes of the city and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said codes on file in the office of the City
Clerk are referred to, adopted and made a part of this section as if fully set
out.
(Prior Code, § 15.07.010) (Ord. 3335, passed - -2008; Ord. 3502, passed 5-16-
2017)
§ 150.006 PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Adopted. The following documents, three copies of which are on file in
the office of the City Clerk, marked and designated as “2012 International Code
Council Plumbing Code” are adopted as codes of the city and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said codes on file
in the office of the City Clerk are referred to, adopted and made a part of
this section as if fully set out.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.010)
   (B)   Additions, insertions and changes.
      (1)   Administrative changes in the Uniform Plumbing Code:
         (a)   Add to Section 10.3, “new buildings and construction”; and
         (b)   Delete Section 20.1 and add:
         Whenever the term ‘Administrative Authority’ is used in this code it
shall mean the Plumbing Inspector and/or his authorized representative.
         (a) The authorized representative shall be a person or persons so
designated by the City Manager or the City Codes Officer.
         (b) The Codes Department or the Building Inspection Department of the
City of Fort Scott shall be responsible for the enforcement of this code.
      (2)   Addition to Section 20.2(b):
      It shall be the duty of the City Clerk and/or his authorized
representative to maintain an official register of all persons, firms or
corporations lawfully entitled to carry on or engage in the business of
plumbing or gas fitting work to whom a license has been issued in accordance
with Section 4.5 of this plumbing ordinance.
      (3)   Amend Section 20.7, Fee Schedule, as follows:
         PERMIT FEES   
         1.   New residential buildings   $10.00
         2.   New commercial, public or industrial building with total
evaluation of less than $20,000   $20.00
         Over $20,000 will be $20.00 plus $1.00 per $1,000 or fraction thereof
for total evaluation in excess of $20,000.00.
         Items 3 through 15 remain the same as far as obtaining a permit, but
there is no permit fee for any of these items.
      (4)   Addition to Section 30.1:
         (1)    The term “qualified plumber” shall mean an individual who has
satisfactorily demonstrated to the Plumbing Board his qualifications as a
plumber and holds a valid Plumbing License.
         (2)    A Master Plumber is a person who may conduct, carry on or
engage in the business of performing plumbing work as a Plumbing Contractor and
who otherwise is a “qualified plumber.”
         (3)    A Journeyman Plumber is a person who labors at the trade of
plumbing as an employee under the supervision of a Master Plumber and who
otherwise is a “qualified plumber.”
         (4)    A Gas Fitter is a person licensed to install gas piping in
connection with heating and refrigeration work.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.020)
   (C)   Additions, insertions and changes in the Uniform Plumbing Code related
to general regulations.
      (1)   Addition to Section 401:
      ABS, PVC or any plastic pipe shall not be used as drain waste or vent or
supply in #1 Fire zone, except in residential building less than three stories
in height.
      (2)   Amend Section 1004(a):
      Water pipe and fittings shall be of brass copper, cast iron, galvanized
malleable iron, galvanized wrought iron, galvanized steel, lead, CPVC and
Polybutylene (PB) hot and cold water plastic piping, or other approved
materials. Polyethylene (PE) or Polyvinal Chloride (PVC) water pipe
manufactured to recognized standards may be used for cold water systems.
Plastic pipe of any approved type shall not be used any closer than three (3)
feet to the cold water inlet or the hot water outlet of hot water heaters,
tanks, or boilers. Plastic pipe is to be considered to be combustible and
necessary clearance shall be observed and maintained. All material used in the
water supply systems, except valves and similar devices shall be of like
material, except where otherwise approved by the Plumbing Inspector.
      (3)   Cast iron sewer pipe must be used in all open street, alley or
other public land (minimum size four inches).
      (4)   Delete Section 318-2(e) of the Uniform Plumbing Code.
      (5)   Section 410 of the Uniform Plumbing Code, add the following:
      Subsoil drains or rainwater drains shall not be discharged into the
sanitary sewers.
      (6)   Amend Section 501 of the Uniform Plumbing Code:
      Floor drain (where used as such) need not be vented, provided it is
within 25 feet of a 3 inch stack or horizontal drain which has at least a 3
inch diameter vent extension through the roof.
      (7)   Addition to Section 20.14 of the Uniform Plumbing Code:
      The Board of Appeals and the Plumbing Board shall be one and the same.
      CREATION OF PLUMBING BOARD. There is hereby created and established a
Plumbing Board, which will act as a certificate examining agency for the City
Inspection Division. The board shall be known as the “Plumbing Board.” The
Board shall have the duties, powers, and functions prescribed by this Code for
the purpose of giving examinations and determining facts in connection with the
issuance of Certificates and Competency and License.
      The Board shall consist of three (3) members. One member of said Board
shall be a licensed Master Plumber, a second member shall be a licensed
Journeyman Plumber and the third member shall be the Plumbing Inspector, of the
City of Fort Scott and he shall be responsible for its organization and
operation.
      (8)   Amend Section 20.3, Violations and Penalties:
      Any person, firm or corporation, violating any provision of this Code
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine, not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500) or by
imprisonment not to exceed one year or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each
such person is guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any
portion of which any violation of any provision of the ordinances of the City
is committed, continued or permitted by such person, and he is punishable
accordingly. No permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the
provisions of this Code shall be valid, except insofar as the work or use which
it authorized is lawful. The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of
plans shall not prevent the Plumbing Inspector from thereafter requiring the
correction of errors in said plans and specifications or from preventing the
construction operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of this
Code or of any certificate of approval when issued in error.
      Every permit issued by the Plumbing Inspector under the provisions of
this Code shall expire by limitations and become null and void, if the work
authorized by such permit is not commenced within one hundred twenty (120)
days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first
obtained, and the fee shall be one-half (1/2) the amount required for a new
permit or such work, provided no changes have been made, or will be made, in
the original plans and specifications of such work; and provided further, that
such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one (1) year.
      (9)   Addition to Section 3182(e):
         1.    All waterline rough-in inspections will be done under pressure.
         2.    All rough inspections of DWV will be done under pressure to the
housetrap or clean out.
      (10)   Addition to Section 406, Sewer Line Taps:
      All sewer line taps will be on 45 degree angle (with exception made by
Plumbing Inspector).
      (11)   Addition to Section 406-5:
      Housetraps or clean outs are mandatory in new plumbing installations.
They shall be within 3 feet of outside of building.
      (12)   Addition to Section 20.4(d):
      No permit shall be issued to any person to do or cause to be done any
plumbing, drainage, or gas fittings work regulated by this code, unless such
person holds a valid unexpired Master Plumbers license as herein required or
gas fitting license.
      EXCEPTION: Any permit required by this Code may be issued to any
unlicensed uncertified person to do any work regulated by this Code on a
dwelling used exclusively for his living purposes, including the usual
accessory buildings, existing or in the process of being newly constructed, in
the event that such person certifies that he is, or is to be, the bona fide
owner of such dwelling and accessory buildings, and that the same are occupied,
or are to be occupied, by said owner, provided that said owner shall personally
purchase all material to be used and shall personally perform all labor in
connection therewith. Further, all such plumbing work performed by such
unlicensed, uncertified person shall be limited to only that work on his own
private property and shall specifically exclude plumbing work from the house
side of the water or gas meter to the main and that work on the building sewer
from the sewer easement line to the public sewer.
      (13)   Amend Section 4.3, Bond Required:
      No plumber’s license shall be issued until the applicant therefor shall
have filed an acceptable surety bond in favor of the City of Fort Scott,
Kansas, in the sum of one thousand dollars (1,000.00). The condition of the
said bond be that if the principal named in the bond shall faithfully comply
with all the provisions of the said No. 2803 as amended, and the model code
enacted thereby, then the bond shall be null and void, but if otherwise, then
in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.030)
   (D)   New sections enacted. The following sections are enacted and adopted
as an addition to the Uniform Plumbing Code, 1979 Edition:
      A.    Section 4.1, APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO PLUMBING BOARD
      The members of the Plumbing Board shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the approval of the City Commission to serve a term of two (2) calendar years
and may be reappointed. The members of the Board shall be persons of good
reputation with at least three (3) years experience in their respective field
and shall be residents of the City of Fort Scott. The members of the Board may
be removed by the Mayor for just cause, upon written notice.
      B.    Section 4.2, DUTIES OF PLUMBING BOARD
      The Plumbing Board shall organize by electing one of its regular members
to preside as president. The Board shall establish rules governing
prerequisites of applicants applying for plumbing examinations and for the
issuance licenses. The Board shall conduct examinations of applicants once each
month, unless no applicants are available for examination. The Plumbing Board
shall be responsible for the examination of applicants for the following
licenses:
      (a)    Master Plumber License
      (b)    Journeyman Plumber License
      (c)    Gas Fitter License
      C.    Section 4.3, EXAMINATION STANDARDS OF PLUMBING BOARD
      The Plumbing Board shall set the examination standards to be followed.
The standards shall be consistent with the purpose of the Plumbing Code, which
is for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare of the people of
the City so that those who are recommended to be certified under the Plumbing
Code are qualified in terms of their skills, knowledge, practical experience
knowledge of pertinent law to supervise or perform the work for which they may
be certified. The Board shall set standards and examine applicants for
Certificates of Competency in the following areas:
      (a)    Applicable technical portions of the Plumbing Code.
      (b)    Related technical knowledge.
      (c)    Related skills.
      (d)    Education.
      (e)    Experience (4 yr. for Master Plumber, 2 yr. for Journeyman Plumber
and 1 yr. for Gas Fitter). Periodic review shall be made to maintain the
standards current with the Plumbing Code and building practices.
      D.    Section 4.4, EXAMINATION AND FILING FEE.
      The Plumbing Board shall, immediately after the appointment of its
members, meet and designate the time and place for the examination of all
applicants desiring to do plumbing work or gas fitting within the city. Every
person wishing to be the holder of a Plumber’s or Gas Fitter license shall file
with the Plumbing Board his request for an examination. A filing fee in the
amount of Ten ($10.00) dollars shall be paid at the time of filing of the
application and all such filing fees shall not be subject to refund in the
event that an applicant fails to pass the examination. In the event an
applicant fails to pass the examination, he may be given two (2) re-
examinations without the payment of an additional filing fee if such
examinations are given within six (6) months after the first examination.
      E.    Section 4.5, CERTIFICATE OF COMPETENCY
      If, after examination, the Plumbing Board is satisfied as to the
competency of the applicant, the Board shall issue a Certificate of Competency
or License for either a Journeyman, Master Plumber, or Gas Fitter to such
applicant, authorizing him to engage in or work ax the business of plumbing or
gas fining. All holders of a Plumber or Gas Fitter License shall within ten
(10) days after the receipt thereof and/or by December 31 of each year
thereafter, annually present the same to the City Clerk and pay an annual
registration fee of Thirty Dollars ($30) for Master Plumber License, Twenty
Dollars ($20) for Journeyman License, and Ten Dollars ($10) for Gas Fitter
License. Out of town contractors shall be issued temporary licenses for one
specified job with the cost of the temporary license being One Hundred Dollars
($100) for Master License and Twenty-five Dollars ($25) for Journeyman License.
The City Clerk shall keep an annual register of all licensed plumbers or gas
fitters. Failure to annually register as herein required shall be grounds for
revocation of the license by the Plumbing Board. Any person whose license has
been revoked must be re-examined before being issued a new license.
      F.    Section 4.6, GAS FITTER LICENSE
      To be issued on passing of gas fitting test, a license to heating and air
conditioning contractors for the installation of gas piping for heating or
refrigeration equipment only.
      G.    Section 4.7, GAS FITTER OR PLUMBER VIOLATION
      Plumbers or Gas Fitters found guilty of two violations of plumbing code
may have his license revoked and have to be re-examined under the Uniform
Plumbing Code.
      H.    Section 4.8, APPRENTICE
      An apprentice must work under the supervision of a Master or Journeyman
Plumber at all times. A licensed Journeyman Plumber may do all work under
limited supervision of a Master Plumber.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.040)
(Ord. 2803, passed - -1981; Ord. 2843, passed - -1982; Ord. 3053, passed - -
1992; Ord. 330, passed - -1991; Ord. 3117, passed - -1995; Ord. 3146, passed -
-1997; Ord. 3404, passed 11-15-2011; Ord. 3501, passed 5-16-2016)
**** ELECTRICAL CODE ****
§ 150.020 ADOPTED.
   The following documents, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk, marked and designated as “2011 National Electrical Code” are
adopted as codes of the city and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said codes on file in the office of the City
Clerk are referred to, adopted and made a part of this section as if fully set
out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.010) (Ord. 2962, passed - -1987; Ord. 3026, passed - -
1991; Ord. 3119, passed - -1995; Ord. 3145, passed - -1997; Ord. 3336, passed -
-2008; Ord. 3508, passed 5-16-2017)
§ 150.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS. The installation of new wiring for additional
switches, receptacles, light fixtures and permanent attached appliances. The
replacement of existing wiring, service panels, subpanels and service drops.
   APPRENTICE ELECTRICIAN. Any unlicensed person working in the electrical
trade under the direct supervision of a master or journeyman electrician.
   ELECTRICAL WIRING. The installations, repair, connection, alteration or
replacement of wiring in buildings and structures for the use of electrical
current for electrical fixtures, appliances, motors or other apparatus.
   MASTER ELECTRICIAN. A person who holds a legal certificate showing that he
or she is qualified, certified and equipped to properly lay out, plan and make
any installation, repair or maintenance of electrical wiring, appliances,
fixtures, motors and other apparatus requiring electrical current.
   JOURNEYMAN ELECTRICIAN. Any person who holds a legal certificate showing
that he is qualified to do electrical wiring under the limited supervision of a
master electrician.
   NON-RESIDENT. Person or firm that does not have a Fort Scott street or rural
route address or that is not employed by a firm with a street or rural route
address in the city.
   SENIOR JOURNEYMAN. A person who holds a legal certificate showing that he or
she is qualified, certified and equipped to properly layout, plan and make any
installation, repair or maintenance of electrical wiring appliances, fixtures,
motors and other apparatus requiring electrical current in one- and two-family
dwellings only.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.020) (Ord. 2962, passed - -1987)
§ 150.022 BOARD OF ELECTRICAL EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS; MEETINGS.
   (A)   There is created a Board of Electrical Examiners to pass upon the
qualifications of all persons doing electrical work or wiring in the city. The
Board shall consist of seven members and with the Electrical Inspector serving
as an ex officio member, voting only in case of a tie vote. The six members of
the Board were appointed by the governing body from available certified master
and journeyman electricians, with members being non-certified. A certified
electrician may serve a maximum of two consecutive terms. The governing body
initially appointed two members for a three-year term, two members for a two-
year term and two members for a one-year term. Any members appointed hereafter
shall be for a full three-year term.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.030)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the members of the Board of Examiners under
such rules and regulations as they shall prescribe, to hold meetings of the
Board once each month and in such places as may be fixed by the Board for the
purpose of passing upon the qualifications of parties doing the electric wiring
and electrical work within the city. The Electrical Inspector of the city shall
serve as the Secretary of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.040)
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1987)
§ 150.023 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   For any licenses referred to in this subchapter, the applicants should
make application to the Electrical Inspector, in writing, setting out such
information as to their experience at the electrical trade and such other
information as may be required by the rules and regulations of the Board. The
information and application form, as approved by the Board of Examiners, shall
be furnished to the applicant at no charge.
   (B)   The Board shall conduct examinations with regard to practical
knowledge of installation of residential, commercial and industrial wiring and
operation of electrical energy on the part of all applicants. Journeyman
applicants must submit evidence that the applicant has had three years’
practical electrical construction experience of residential, commercial and/or
industrial wiring, or two years’ college (electrical) and/or industrial wiring,
or two years’ trade school and one year of practical electrical construction
experience of residential, commercial and/or industrial wiring. Senior
journeyman applicants must submit evidence that the applicant has had one year
of practical electrical construction experience in residential wiring as a
licensed journeyman. Applicants for masters licenses must have two years as
licensed journeyman.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.050) (Ord. 2962, passed - -1987)
§ 150.024 ELECTRICAL WORK PERMIT.
   (A)   Every person, firm or corporation before entering upon any
construction or erection of any electric light or power wiring (except
community antenna television equipment, cable, powering or ancillary services),
in any building in the city, shall make application to the Electrical Inspector
or his or her designate, for an electrical permit describing the proposed work
before proceeding therewith.
   (B)   Permits and inspections shall be required for all repair work or
alterations to any original installation, if the repair is being made because
of an electrical fire or fire damage or as a result of the alterations,
additions, any new circuits must be added to main service panel or subpanel;
except permits and inspections shall not be required for minor repair work,
such as replacement of defective switches, receptacles, tight fixtures, fuses
or breakers.
   (C)   Permits are required on any inspections required by public utility
company, except temporary service hookups.
   (D)   Permits will be issued in the name of master electricians or master
and firm, senior journeyman (for residential only), in the city meeting all the
requirements set forth in this subchapter. Any permit required by this
subchapter may be issued to any person to do any work regulated by this
subchapter in a single-family dwelling used   for living purposes, including
the usual accessory buildings and quarters, and that the same are occupied by
the owner; provided that, said owner shall personally purchase all materials
and shall personally perform all labor in connection therewith, with the
exception of commercial and industrial type buildings.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.060) (Ord. 2962, passed - -1987)
§ 150.025 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS AND ELECTRICIANS LICENSE; APPLICATION;
EXAMINATION; FEES; NON-RESIDENT LICENSES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, copartnership or
corporation to engage in business or the trade or occupation of an electrician
without first securing a license from the city.
      (2)   All persons, firms, co-partnerships or corporations who or which
undertake with or for another to do any electrical wiring or other work for
which a permit is required under the Electrical Code or regulations of the city
for a fixed price, fee, percentage of cost or other compensation or who or
which advertises or otherwise represents to the public to have the capacity or
ability to undertake the installation, alteration or renewal of electric
wiring, lighting or power fixture and electrical apparatus of any nature
(except measuring equipment and devices installed by and remaining the property
of the utility company supplying the service), (except cable television
distribution equipment; cable, powering or ancillary service installed by and
remaining the property of community antenna television company supplying the
service) in or on any building structure, sign or premises within the city
shall for the purposes of this subchapter be required to obtain appropriate
license.
      (3)   A master license shall be issued in the name of the person and firm
so engaging in business upon payment of an annual fee in the amount of $30 and
for successive years upon payment of a renewal fee of $30 each year thereafter.
      (4)   Senior journeyman license shall be issued in the name of the person
so engaging in business upon payment of an annual fee in the amount of $25 and
for successive years upon payment of a renewal fee of $25 each.
      (5)   A journeyman license shall be issued in the name of the person and
firm so engaging in business upon payment of an annual fee in the amount of $20
and for successive years upon payment of a renewal fee of $20 each year
thereafter.
      (6)   Payments for such licenses shall be made payable to the city
through the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.070)
   (B)   License applicant; examination. Every person whether an employee or
employer before engaging in electric wiring and electrical work in the city
shall apply to the Board of Examiners of Electricians and pass an examination
as to the applicant’s competency as an electrician and, if on examination,
applicant is found competent to do electrical wiring and electrical work, the
Board shall issue a certificate of examination to such applicant authorizing
him or her to engage in electrical wiring and electrical work in the city. Such
certificate shall remain in force until revoked or cancelled by the Board of
Examiners, but such certificate shall not be transferable. The fee for
examination of each applicant shall be $10, such fee to be paid to the city
clerk at the time the applicant applies for such examination and shall be
retained by the city whether or not the applicant passes the examination. The
examination shall consist of questions, examples, demonstrations designed to
show the extent of the applicant’s knowledge concerning the detailed provisions
of the city’s Electrical Wiring Code and the National Electrical Code, the
practical experience in electrical work which the applicant has had and the
degree of proficiency which he or she has attained. A grade of 75% out of 100%
as perfect, shall be necessary for the applicant to pass. If the applicant is
rejected, he or she shall not be eligible for reexamination until after the
period of 30 days, then it shall be three months. If the Board is satisfied as
to the competency of the applicant based upon a demonstration of ability by
written test, practical wiring test and vouchers from two master the
retirements practical electrical construction experience (in § 150.022 of this
chapter) may be waived by the Board of Electricians.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.080)
   (C)   Electrician’s license fees.
      (1)   (a)   All licenses issued by virtue of this section shall expire on
December 31 in the year of issuance and each year thereafter.
         (b)   The full amount of the required fee shall be paid at the time of
issuance of the license irrespective of the date of issuance and without
proration.
         (c)   Each license shall be renewable within 30 days before expiration
and, if not so renewed, shall, at the end of such time, be null and void and
not subject to renewal without retesting.
      (2)   Licenses issued hereunder shall not be transferable, and it shall
be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to allow to permit his, her or
its license to be used by another for the purpose of securing any permit
required by the electrical ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.090)
   (D)   Non-resident electrician’s licenses. The Board of Electrical Examiners
will not issue a license without an examination to a non-resident master or
journeyman electrician, unless the Board has a reciprocal agreement with a city
in Kansas in which the applicant is currently licensed and has passed a written
examination from that city; or, provided further that, if the Board is
satisfied to the competency of the applicant, a license may be issued.
      (1)   Non-resident master or journeyman electrical licenses will be
issued for specified jobs only. The master license fee will be $100 per job and
the journeyman license fee will be $25 per job.
      (2)   Licenses will expire at the end of the specified job or 365 days,
whichever comes first.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.100)
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1987; Ord. 3052, passed - -1992)
§ 150.026 BOND; INSURANCE.
   In addition to the license fee and before the license is issued, the person,
firm or corporation making application for a master license or senior
journeyman license shall have in effect on file with the City Clerk a surety
bond in favor of the city, in the sum of $1,000 approved by the Board of City
Commissioners and the City Attorney and conditional that the principal in said
bond will comply with all provisions of all ordinances of the city relating to
the construction, erection or installation of wire or other apparatus and
mediums for the transmission of electric current for heat, power or light
purposes and, upon further condition, that the city, or any person, firm or
corporation who deems himself, herself or itself injured or damaged by the
principal’s failure to comply with such ordinances, may sue on such bond to
recover his, her or its damage. All persons holding a master license or senior
journeyman license in the city must be covered by a $1,000 bond either by
individual bond or their names listed on the shop’s or firm’s bond.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.110) (Ord. 2962, passed - -1987)
§ 150.027 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT; DUTIES; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Manager shall appoint an Electrical Inspector and may appoint
assistant inspectors, when necessary. The Electrical Inspector shall not engage
in the electrical business, either directly or indirectly, in the city while
holding the Office of Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.120)
   (B)   (1)   The Electrical Inspector shall keep complete records of all
permits issued, inspections made and certificates issued and all other official
work performed under the provisions of this subchapter. All necessary blanks
and record books shall be provided by the city.
      (2)   The Electrical Inspector or his or her authorized assistant shall
inspect all electric light, heat and power wires, fixtures, appliances
conductors and apparatus hereinafter installed in or upon any buildings, shops,
sheds and other structures in the city and all such installations shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, and he or she shall
enforce or cause to be enforced such provisions of this subchapter and, for
that purpose, he or she shall have and is given special police powers necessary
therefor. He or she shall have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building for the purpose of making any inspection required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.130)
   (C)   The Electrical Inspector or any firefighter shall have power to at
once cause removal of all wires, or the turning off all electricity where the
same shall interfere with the work of the Fire Department during the progress
of a fire.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.140)
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1987)
§ 150.028 INSPECTIONS; REQUESTS.
   (A)   The Electrical Inspector or his or her assistant shall inspect all
installations of electric wiring, fixtures and other equipment as required by
this subchapter within 24 hours (not including Saturdays, Sundays or legal
holidays) of the receipt of notice that same is ready for inspection. No worker
shall lath, seal or in any manner conceal any electric wiring until such
inspection shall have been made and the installation approved. It shall be the
duty of the person installing electric wiring, fixtures, appliances and
apparatus to promptly notify the Electrical Inspector when the installation is
ready for inspection. Final inspections are required after all electric wiring,
fixtures, appliances and apparatus are in place.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.150)
   (B)   Upon completion of any work in which a permit has been issued under
the provisions of this subchapter and, from time to time, as may be necessary,
it shall be the duty of the person installing same to notify the Electrical
Inspector after which work shall be inspected promptly as provided herein. If
such work shall be found to comply with all the provisions of this subchapter,
the Electrical Inspector shall then issue a certificate of satisfactory
inspection. No electric current shall be turned on, except for foe purpose of
testing, or temporary lighting while the building is under construction, until
such certificate shall be issued. No electric light or power wires or equipment
shall be covered or concealed until it shall have been inspected and approved
by the Electrical Inspector, and said Inspector shall have the authority to
remove or cause to be removed, any lath, plaster or other finish which may
interfere with the proper inspection thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.160)
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1987)
§ 150.029 DEFECTIVE WIRING.
   In case any work which the Electrical Inspector is required to inspect by
the provisions of this subchapter shall be found not to comply with the
requirements hereof, and to be unsafe and defective, he or she shall at once
notify the party or parties doing such work of such defect, and order him, her
or them to change, rearrange or remove the same and upon the party’s or
parties’ failure or refusal to do so within a reasonable time, such party or
parties shall be deemed guilty of a violation of the provisions of this
subchapter, and each and every day which shall elapse after the expiration of
such reasonable time as the same shall be fixed by the Electrical Inspector
without a compliance with such order, shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.170) (Ord. 2962, passed - -1987)
§ 150.030 ELECTRICAL WORK AND INSTALLATION; RULES.
   When performing electrical work or installation within the city, it is
necessary to comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   The only application of aluminum is service entrance cable No. 2 or
larger.
   (B)   Service disconnect must be at meter can, if more than eight feet of
wire is required from meter to service panel.
   (C)   Expired license is subject to retest.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.180) (Ord. 2962, passed - -1987)
§ 150.031 APPEAL BOARD.
   The Electrical Inspector shall decide all questions not provided for in this
subchapter pertaining to the installation or use of electric wires, appliances
or apparatus, appeal may be had for order or decision of the Electrical
Inspector to the Board of Examiners. The decision of the Board of Examiners
shall be final and binding and no appeal shall be had from any order or
decision of the Electrical Inspector unless the same be taken within 30 days
from date of such order or decision.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.190) (Ord. 2962, passed - -1987)
§ 150.032 LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall, in any way, relieve any electrician from
responsibility for materials he or she furnishes or installs, or impair in any
way his or her liability for failure to use due care in protecting life and
property in the subsequent use of electrical installations made by him or her;
nor shall the city be held as assuming liability by reason of any inspection
authorized herein or certificate issued.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.200) (Ord. 2962, passed - -1987)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
150.020 through
150.032 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine, not to exceed $500, or by
imprisonment not to exceed one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Each such person is guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during
any portion of which any violation of any provision of the ordinances of the
city is committed, continued or permitted by such person, and he or she is
punishable accordingly. No permit presuming to give authority to violate or
cancel the provisions of §§
150.020 through
150.032 of this chapter shall be valid, except insofar as the work or use which
it authorized is lawful.
      (2)   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans shall not
prevent the Electrical Inspector from thereafter requiring the correction of
errors in the plans and specifications or from preventing the construction
operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of §§
150.020 through
150.032 of this chapter or of any certificate of approval when issued in error.
      (3)   Every permit issued by the Electrical Inspector under the
provisions of §§
150.020 through
150.032 of this chapter shall expire by limitations and become null and void,
if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 120 days. Before
such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first obtained, and the fee
shall be one-half the amount required for a permit for such work; provided, no
changes have been made, or will be made, in the original plans and
specifications of such work; and, provided further that, such suspension or
abandonment has not exceeded one year.
      (4)   Any person convicted of two violations of any part of §§
150.020 through
150.032 of this chapter may have his, her or their license revoked by the Board
of Examiners or be required to be retested or both.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.210) (Ord. 2962, passed - -1987)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
151.001   Moving buildings
   
151.002   Dangerous structures
 
   
151.999   Penalty
§ 151.001 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Permit required; contents. No person or corporation shall be permitted
to move any house, shanty or building through the streets or alleys of the city
without first having obtained a permit from the Chief of the Fire Department,
which permit shall state the conditions to be complied with in moving such
building and shall prescribe the route to be taken and limit the time for
removal.
(Prior Code, § 15.24.010)
   (B)   Permit issuance; bond required.
      (1)   Before any permit, as provided for under division (A) above, shall
issue, the applicant shall first take out a license as provided for under §
5.04.030 and shall file with the Chief of the Fire Department a written
application, said application to be filed 48 hours before any permit is issued,
and shall designate the particular building to be moved, giving its present
location and the place to which said building is to be moved; provided that,
before said permit shall issue, the applicant shall file with the City Clerk a
good and sufficient bond in the sum of $500, to be approved by the City Clerk,
conditioned among other things that the applicant will pay any and all damages
which may be caused to any property, either public or private, within the city
where such injury or damage is inflicted by the applicant, his or her agent,
employees or workmen; and conditioned also that the party will save and
indemnify and keep harmless the city against all liabilities and will, in all
things, strictly comply with the conditions of his or her permit.
      (2)   Upon the filing of the application and the execution and acceptance
of the bond, the permit shall issue.
(Prior Code, § 15.24.020)
(Ord. 1080, passed - -1908) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.002 DANGEROUS STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Enforcing officer; duties generally. The Chief of the Fire Department
is designated as the enforcing officer of the city and charged with the
administration of the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 15.28.010)
   (B)   Provisions to be cumulative and supplemental. This section shall be
cumulative of any other ordinance relating to the subject of this section and
shall be supplemental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 15.28.020)
(Ord. 2301, passed - -1963)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
151.001 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 15.24.030) (Ord. 1080, passed - -1908)
CHAPTER 152: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Policy
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Definitions
   
152.004   Administrative review
   
152.005   Preservation Fund
   
152.006   Fees
   
152.007   Enforcement
Historic Preservation and Resource Commission (FSHPRC)
   
152.020   Memberships and appointment
   
152.021   Terms
   
152.022   Officers
   
152.023   Rules of procedure
   
152.024   Meetings
   
152.025   Annual report
   
152.026   Ex officio members
   
152.027   Committees and subcommittees
   
152.028   Powers and duties
   
152.029   Survey
   
152.030   Inventory
Designations of Structures, Sites and Districts
   
152.045   Designations generally
   
152.046   Application for designation
   
152.047   Public hearing procedure
   
152.048   Findings and criteria
   
152.049   Decisions and recommendations of FSHPRC
   
152.050   Nominations; consideration by City Commission
   
152.051   Designation ordinance
   
152.052   Interim control
   
152.053   Denial of designation
   
152.054   Amendment and rescission of designation
Certification of Appropriateness
   
152.065   Requirement; exemption
   
152.066   Applications; accompanying plans
   
152.067   Consideration and approval
   
152.068   Denial
   
152.069   Criteria to determine appropriateness
   
152.070   Appeals
   
152.071   Review of certificates of appropriateness for locally designated
properties
 
   
152.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 152.001 POLICY.
   (A)   The governing body of the city finds and declares that the present and
future economic and general welfare of the people of the city is generally
founded on the contributions of the past. Many of these contributions are
manifested in districts, sites, buildings, structures, archeology and objects
which reflect the richness and diversity of the city’s history by their design,
association and integrity.
   (B)   The governing body of the city further finds that many historic
properties have been lost through demolition and destructive rehabilitation,
notwithstanding the feasibility of preserving and continuing the use of such
properties, and without adequate consideration of the irreplaceable loss to the
people of the city of the historic, cultural and architectural values
represented by such sites, buildings, structures and objects. It is the sense
of the governing body that economic and general welfare of the city cannot be
maintained or enhanced by disregarding the historic, cultural and architectural
heritage of the city.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To establish and organize the Fort Scott Historic Preservation and
Resource Commission, hereafter referred to as the “FSHPRC”;
   (B)   To identify, protect and enhance districts, sites, buildings,
structures and objects which represent or reflect distinctive and important
elements of the city’s historic, cultural and architectural heritage;
   (C)   To protect and enhance the city’s attractions for tourists and
visitors and provide incidental support and stimulus to business and industry;
   (D)   To make the preservation of historic places an integral part of
planning for land use, economic development, housing and transportation; and
   (E)   To provide resources and information to aid and promote historic
preservation.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. The word “shall” is
mandatory and not directory.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A subordinate structure or portion of the main
structure, located on the same property and the use of which is clearly
incidental to that of the main structure or to the use of the property on which
it is located. Customary ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to,
garages, carports, garden houses, small storage sheds and children’s
playhouses.
   ADAPTIVE USE. The process of changing the use of a structure or property to
a use other than that for which the structure or property was originally
designed.
   ADJACENT STRUCTURES/PARCELS. A structure or parcel having a common parcel
boundary or located immediately next to a structure or parcel.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The designated individual assigned by the City Manager to
administer, interpret and enforce this chapter.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a structure, a change or rearrangement in the
structural parts of an existing structure. Enlargement, whether by extending a
side, increasing the height, or moving from one location or position to another
shall be considered an ALTERATION.
   BUILDING. A structure, such as a house, barn, church, hotel, courthouse,
city hall, social hall, commercial building, library, factory, mill, train
depot, theater, school, store or similar construction, created to shelter any
form of human activity. The term also may refer to a small group of buildings
consisting of a main building and subsidiary buildings which constitute a
historically and functionally related unit such as a courthouse and jail, house
and barn, mansion and carriage house, church and rectory and farmhouse and
related outbuildings.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. A certificate issued by the FSHPRC, or on
appeal by the City Commission, approving plans for alteration, construction,
demolition or other matters relating to historic properties.
   CITY. The municipal corporation named the “City of Fort Scott, Kansas”.
   CITY COMMISSION. The Board of City Commissioners of Fort Scott, Kansas.
   CONTRIBUTING. A building, site, structure or object which adds to the
architectural qualities, historic association or archeological values of a site
or district for which a property is significant because:
      (1)   It was present during the pertinent historic time;
      (2)   It possesses integrity and reflects significant historic character
or is capable of yielding important information about the pertinent historic
period; or
      (3)   It independently meets the standards and criteria of this chapter.
   DISTRICT. An area that possesses a significant concentration of,
relationship between, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures or objects
united historically or architecturally by plan or physical development.
DISTRICTS may include college campuses, the downtown area, residential areas,
commercial areas, industrial complexes, civic centers, planned street systems
and large related sites, buildings, structures or objects which are
geographically separated. In such cases, visual continuity should not be
necessary to convey the historic relationship of a group of related resources.
   EXTERIOR FEATURE. Elements and components of the outer surface of a
structure including, but not limited to, building materials, windows, outside
doors, outdoor light fixtures, attached signs, fixtures, carvings, columns,
railings, stairs and steps, retaining walls, fences and fence posts, hitching
posts, decorations, dormers, chimneys, false fronts, paint colors, surface
textures or parapets.
   FORT SCOTT REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES. The current Fort Scott Register of
Historic Places, as prepared, approved and amended by the FSHPRC and authorized
by this chapter.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Commission of Fort Scott, Kansas.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION. The study, identification, protection, restoration
and rehabilitation of buildings, sites, structures, objects, districts and
areas significant to the history, architecture, archeology or culture of the
city, state or nation. PRESERVATION may include work to halt the process of
decay, normal maintenance and other measures to retain and sustain the nature,
form, material and integrity of historically or architecturally important
properties, structures or districts.
   HISTORIC RECONSTRUCTION. The reproduction of the exact form and detail of a
vanished building, site, structure or a part thereof, as it appeared at a
pertinent time using materials based on precise historical documentation and
specification, including construction method.
   HISTORIC RESTORATION. The accurate reconstruction of structural elements
matching the original construction method and material in shape, size, texture,
including removal of materials that are not appropriate to the structure.
   HISTORIC SITE. The location of a significant event, prehistoric or historic
occupation or activity, building or structure, whether standing, ruined or
vanished, where the location itself possesses historic, cultural or
archeological value, regardless of the value of any existing structure.
   INTERIOR FEATURES. Elements and components of the inside of a structure
including, but not limited to, building materials, inside doors, door and
window moldings, wall covering, paint colors, indoor light fixtures, lamps,
furniture, draperies, fireplace hearths, stairways, appliances, heating and
ventilating equipment, carvings, columns, railings, decorations and surface
textures.
   LANDSCAPE FEATURE. Any element or component of outdoor open space including,
but not limited to, fences, walls, retaining walls, gates, sidewalks, walkways,
driveways, parking lots, patios, terraces, decks, ground covers, trees, plants,
outdoor furniture, exterior light standards, fountains, statuary, detached
signs and other such elements.
   NON-CONTRIBUTING. A building, site or object that does not add to the
architectural qualities, historic association or archeological values of a
historic place or district because:
      (1)   It was not present during the pertinent historic time;
      (2)   Due to alterations, disturbances, additions or other changes, it no
longer possesses integrity, reflects its significant historic character or is
capable of yielding important information about the pertinent period; or
      (3)   It does not independently meet the standards and criteria of this
chapter.
   NORMAL MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. Any improvement or work for which a building
permit is not required by city ordinance.
   OBJECT. Those constructions that are primarily artistic in nature or are
relatively small in scale and simply constructed. While an OBJECT may be
movable by nature or design, it should be located in a specific setting or
environment appropriate to its significant historic use, role or character.
OBJECTS include sculptures, monuments, street signs, fence posts, hitching
posts, mileposts, boundary markers, statuary and fountains.
   OWNER. All owners of record of fee simple title as determined by publicly
filed records.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.004 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   The administrator or designee shall have authority to conduct an
administrative review of certain applications and to grant a certificate of
appropriateness if compliance is found with the applicable review standards
without the necessity of the matter being reviewed by the FSHPRC. If compliance
is not found, the administrator shall refer the application to the FSHPRC.
   (B)   Such delegated authority to conduct administrative reviews and
approvals shall be limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and minor repair to the exterior when using identical
or like-kind materials and which does not alter the original appearance,
design, profile and size of the current feature. This includes all windows,
doors, porches, roofing and the like;
      (2)   Installation of signs and awnings on commercial properties (when
installed into masonry, the attachments are made into mortar joints) and not
connected to historic property;
      (3)   Minor alterations to exterior buildings include the addition of
mechanical or electrical equipment when not affecting character-defining
aspects of historical properties;
      (4)   Installation of fire safety equipment or minor alterations to meet
the Americans with Disabilities Act;
      (5)   Interior modifications that do not affect or remove character-
defining elements of interior spaces, including the installation of mechanical,
plumbing or electrical systems that require minimal changes to existing
features;
      (6)   Minor public improvements including improvements to streets, curbs,
sidewalks, parking areas, parks and other amenities (work must not impact
character-defining features);
      (7)   Similar projects or replacements with like-kind materials; and
      (8)   Any project that has been reviewed by the state preservation office
for tax credit purposes or projects under federal preservation law and grant
funding programs and has received approval from them.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.005 PRESERVATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Fort Scott Preservation Fund (the
“fund”). The fund shall be administered as directed by and according to any
limitations and regulations imposed by the City Commission and according to
state law. The city may apply for, receive and place in the fund any federal,
state or private fees, grants, grants-in-aid, gifts or bequests. The city may
budget and incorporate city revenues into the fund. Fees and fines imposed
according to this chapter shall be placed in the fund.
   (B)   The FSHPRC may recommend the use of the fund for:
      (1)   The purchase of fee simple title to a historic property or
properties;
      (2)   The purchase of preservation easements regarding a historic
property or properties;
      (3)   The purchase of fee simple title to a historic property or
properties with the eventual objective of property resale to a preservation
association;
      (4)   Payment of installments and any fees according to a contract to
purchase fee simple title to a historic property or a preservation easement;
      (5)   Grants and/or loans to owners, developers and organizations for
preservation and/or rehabilitation of a historic property or properties;
      (6)   Grants and/or loans to organizations for programs and projects
designed to achieve one or more of the purposes of this chapter;
      (7)   The maintenance of historic an property, properties or the
maintenance of preservation easements;
      (8)   The costs of conducting and preparing surveys of historically and
architecturally important buildings, sites, structures, objects and districts;
      (9)   The costs of the preparation and presentation of reports,
instructions, brochures, meetings maps, press releases, conferences and other
measures designed to acquaint citizens owners, and developers with the purpose
of this chapter; and
      (10)   Reasonable administrative, planning, architectural, engineering,
financial, real estate, appraisal and/or legal costs associated with the
purchase of property, the purchase and enforcement of preservation easements,
the sale of property, the negotiation of contracts and the preparation of grant
applications and legal actions.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.006 FEES.
   (A)   An application fee for designation of a historic property may be
established by resolution of the City Commission.
   (B)   An application fee for a certificate of appropriateness may be
established by resolution of the City Commission.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.007 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the event that an improvement is made to any structure or
property or any structure or property is demolished or cleared in violation of
the provisions of this chapter, the City Commission may institute an
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent or abate such unlawful action.
      (2)   The imposition of any penalty hereunder shall not preclude the city
from instituting a proper action or proceeding to require compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and with administrative orders and determinations
made hereunder.
   (B)   The administrator shall give written notification of any violation of
this chapter to the property owner, lessee, trustee or other legally
responsible party. The notification shall describe and explain in clear,
precise terms the nature of the violation. The property owner, lessee, trustee
or other legally responsible party shall have 30 days to correct the violation
or give satisfactory evidence that steps have been taken that will lead to
correcting the violation within a specified time period. The administrator must
agree that the stated period of time is fair and reasonable.
   (C)   The city may take the necessary steps to correct a violation of this
chapter in the event that notification of the violation has been given and the
30-day time period has elapsed. The cost of correcting a violation by the city
may be assessed against the owner, lessee, trustee or other legally responsible
party of the property and/or as a special assessment against the property on
which the pertinent structure is located. The City Clerk may cause the same to
be extended on the tax rolls of the county against the pertinent lot or parcel
of land.
   (D)   The City Commission may bring action to require the rebuilding or
restoration of a building, site, structure or object or any part thereof, by a
person who alters or improves any building, site, structure or object, or any
part thereof, in violation of the provisions of this chapter. Such action shall
be in addition to and not in lieu of any criminal prosecution and penalty.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
**** HISTORIC PRESERVATION AND RESOURCE COMMISSION (FSHPRC) ****
§ 152.020 MEMBERSHIPS AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Fort Scott Historic Preservation and Resource Commission
shall consist of seven members who shall be appointed by the governing body of
the city.
      (2)   Members whose terms have expired shall continue to serve until
their successors have been appointed.
      (3)   Members of the Fort Scott Historic Preservation and Resource
Commission shall be appointed by majority vote of the governing body of the
city. Formal appointment documentation shall reflect approval of the governing
body, and the chief elected local official shall execute appointment documents
as the certifying official for purposes of record and certified local
government program administration. Execution of such documents shall not
constitute unilateral appointment authority.
   (B)   The following qualifications shall apply to appointees to FSHPRC.
      (1)   All appointees shall be residents of the city.
      (2)   All appointees should be persons who have demonstrated interest,
knowledge or training in fields closely related to historic preservation, such
as history, architecture, landscape architecture, architectural history,
archeology, planning, real estate, law, finance, building trades, urban design
and geography.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025; Ord. 3795, passed 3-17-2026)
§ 152.021 TERMS.
   (A)   The terms of office for the initial members shall be as follows:
      (1)   One-year term: three members; and
      (2)   Two-year term: four members.
   (B)   Thereafter, all terms shall be for a two-year period commencing on
January 1 and terminating on December 31, two years hence.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.022 OFFICERS.
   The FSHPRC shall annually elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from its
members. The administrator shall serve as Secretary of the FSHPRC. In the
absence of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, the Secretary of the FSHPRC
may convene a meeting of the FSHPRC. In such case, the first order of business
shall be to elect a temporary Chairperson who shall conduct the meeting. The
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall serve for a term of one year. The
Chairperson and Vice- Chairperson may succeed themselves.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.023 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The FSHPRC shall adopt bylaws and/or rules of procedure. The rules of
procedure shall specify attendance requirements and cover potential conflicts
of interest for members. Minutes of all meetings shall be kept by the
administrator and shall be available for public inspection. The administrator
shall provide a copy of the approved minutes for each FSHPRC meeting to the
state’s Historic Preservation Officer.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.024 MEETINGS.
   The times, dates and locations of FSHPRC meetings may be established by the
Chairperson or a majority of the FSHPRC members. The FSHPRC shall meet at least
quarterly. The Chairperson or, in the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice-
Chairperson shall approve meeting agendas before the meeting. A simple majority
of the FSHPRC members shall constitute a quorum of the FSHPRC. There must be a
quorum present before the FSHPRC may take any formal action, but the FSHPRC may
discuss items of business in the absence of a quorum.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.025 ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The FSHPRC shall prepare an annual report of its activities. The
report shall be prepared not later than August 1 of each year and shall pertain
to the period of July 1 through June 30. The report shall be submitted to the
City Commissioners and the state’s Historic Preservation Officer not later than
August 1 of each year.
   (B)   The report shall include:
      (1)   A report on the number and types of cases reviewed and then
disposition;
      (2)   A list of new historic designations made during the year;
      (3)   A list of new appointments to the FSHPRC and the resumes of these
new members;
      (4)   The attendance records of FSHPRC members;
      (5)   All minutes of meetings at which state and/or national register
nominations were considered; and
      (6)   The goals and objections for the coming year.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.026 EX OFFICIO MEMBERS.
   (A)   A representative designated by any of the following organizations may
sit on the FSHPRC as an ex officio member:
      (1)   Fort Scott Planning Commission; and
      (2)   Fort Scott City Commission.
   (B)   Ex officio members shall not have voting power, but may assist the
FSHPRC in its various functions.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.027 COMMITTEES AND SUBCOMMITTEES.
   The FSHPRC may establish such committees or subcommittees as deemed
necessary or convenient to carry out its various functions and duties. Such
committees or subcommittees may be made up in part by members of the FSHPRC and
may meet upon such schedule and for such purposes as established by the FSHPRC.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.028 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The FSHPRC shall have the power and authority to do the following:
   (A)   Adopt its own bylaws and procedures related to the conduct of its
meetings and implementation of this chapter;
   (B)   Conduct an ongoing survey to identify historically and architecturally
significant properties, structures and areas that exemplify the cultural,
social, economic, political or architectural history of the nation, state or
city;
   (C)   Identify “historic structures”, “historic sites” and “historic
districts” that are eligible for listing on the Fort Scott Register of Historic
Places;
   (D)   Make decisions on applications for designation, of properties having
historic, community or architectural value as “historic structures” or
“historic sites” and make recommendations to the City Commission on
applications for designation of “historic districts”;
   (E)   Research and recommend to the City Commission an appropriate system of
markers for designated historic structures, historic sites and historic
districts;
   (F)   Prepare comments on any nominations to the state register of historic
places or the national register of historic places. Such comments shall be
subject to the approval of the City Commission before being submitted;
   (G)   Inform and educate the citizens of Fort Scott concerning the historic
and architectural heritage of the city and advise and assist owners of
designated historic structures, historic sites or historic districts of
physical and financial aspects of preservation, rehabilitation and restoration
by publishing appropriate maps, newsletters, brochures and pamphlets and by
holding programs, workshops and seminars;
   (H)   Review and act upon applications for certificates of appropriateness;
   (I)   Make recommendations to the City Commission regarding funding for the
purpose of carrying out the duties and powers of the FSHPRC and the purposes of
this chapter;
   (J)   Make recommendations to the City Commission regarding the hiring of
such specialists or consultants, or recommend appointing such citizen advisory
committees, as may be required from time to time;
   (K)   Make comments to other city boards and commissions on any matter
affecting historic structures, historic sites and historic districts;
   (L)   Periodically make recommendations to the City Commission regarding
actions the FSHPRC deems appropriate for the protection and continued use of
historic structures, historic sites and historic districts;
   (M)   Participate in a historic preservation-related educational programs;
   (N)   Perform duties delegated to it pursuant to any agreement reached
between the state’s Historic Preservation Officer and the City Commission;
   (O)   Recommend local incentives to encourage historic designation within
the city;
   (P)   Apply for and receive gifts, grants and bequests subject to the
approval of the City Commission; and
   (Q)   Undertake any other action or activity necessary or appropriate to the
implementation of its powers and duties or to the implementation of the purpose
of this chapter.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.029 SURVEY.
   (A)   The FSHPRC shall conduct an ongoing survey to identify structures,
sites and districts that have historic, cultural or architectural importance or
value to tire community. The survey may review and evaluate any prior surveys
and studies by a public or private organization and compile appropriate
descriptions, facts and photographs and be consistent with the methods and
forms provided by the State Historical Society.
   (B)   The FSHPRC shall evaluate the information compiled through survey
efforts and systematically identify properties that are potentially eligible
for designation as indicated by survey results.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.030 INVENTORY.
   The FSHPRC shall create and maintain a detailed inventory of properties
surveyed and evaluated for potential eligibility for designation. The inventory
shall be maintained in a form compatible with the requirements of the State
Historical Society and the state’s Comprehensive Historic Preservation planning
process.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
**** DESIGNATIONS OF STRUCTURES, SITES AND DISTRICTS ****
§ 152.045 DESIGNATIONS GENERALLY.
   There is hereby established the Fort Scott Register of Historic Places,
which shall include all historic structures, historic sites and historic
districts designated as significant pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.046 APPLICATION FOR DESIGNATION.
   To obtain historic designation, an application shall be filed with the
FSHPRC as follows.
   (A)   Nomination of a historic structure, a historic site or a historic
district for placement on the Fort Scott Register of Historic Places shall be
made to the FSHPRC on an application prepared by the FSHPRC and may be made by
any person or entity.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information in addition to
such other information deemed necessary and advisable by the FSHPRC:
      (1)   The legal description and address of the pertinent structures and/
or properties;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner(s);
      (3)   The approximate date of the original construction and the date of
any major improvement or alteration, if known;
      (4)   The names of the architect and builder, if known;
      (5)   The names of the original owner or occupant, if known;
      (6)   A statement of why die property is historically or architecturally
important;
      (7)   A list of sources that document the historical significance; and
      (8)   Black and white photographs of the structures and/or property(ies).
   (C)   No application for designation of a historic structure or historic
site shall proceed forward unless all owners have consented in writing to the
designation. No application for designation of a historic district shall
proceed forward unless both 51% of the owners of property within the nominated
district and the owners of 51% of the property within the nominated district
have consented in writing to the designation.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.047 PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Public hearings. The FSHPRC shall conduct a public hearing on each
property nominated for designation at a reasonable time and place established
by the FSHPRC. The hearing shall be held no later than 60 days following
receipt of a completed application. The hearing may be held during a regular
meeting of the FSHPRC or during a special meeting of the FSHPRC called in part
for that purpose.
   (B)   Notice of hearing. At least 20 days in advance of the public hearing,
notice shall be published in the official city newspaper. The notice shall
state the date, time and place of the hearing and contain the street address
and legal description of the nominated property. The FSHPRC shall also send by
regular first class mail a written notice of the public hearing containing the
same information as the published notice to the owners of all properties
nominated for designation at least 20 days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   Conduct of hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by the FSHPRC. Any
person or entity may attend and participate in the meeting in person, by agent
or by attorney subject to reasonable rules of order adopted by the FSHPRC.
   (D)   Continuing hearing. The public hearing may be continued from time to
time as the FSHPRC deems necessary to fully explore all issues relevant to the
nomination. Once the notice requirements have been satisfied, the notice
procedure need not be repeated as to the continuation of the public hearing on
another date. Notice of the date, time and place of such public hearing
continuation shall be announced at the time of the initial public hearing.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.048 FINDINGS AND CRITERIA.
   (A)   The FSHPRC shall, based upon evidence submitted at the hearing, make a
decision as to whether or not a nominated structure or site should be
designated historic and shall make a recommendation to the City Commission as
to whether a nominated district should be designated historic.
   (B)   The FSHPRC shall make findings in support of its decision or
recommendation for designation that such structure, site or district has
sufficient integrity of location, design, materials, workmanship or association
to make it worthy of preservation or restoration; and that it possesses
significant historical, archeological and/or architectural qualities and thus
qualifies for designation pursuant to one or more of the following criteria.
(Note(s): the following shall hereafter be referred to as the “criteria for
designation”.):
      (1)   Prior designation of historic sites, including, but not limited to,
the National Register of Historic Places and the State Register of Historic
Places;
      (2)   Identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the culture and development of the city, county, region, state
or nation;
      (3)   Identification as the work of an architect, designer or master
builder whose individual work has influenced the development of the city,
county, region, state or nation;
      (4)   Character, interest or value as part of the development, heritage
or culture of the city, county, region, state or nation;
      (5)   Location of the site as a significant historic event;
      (6)   Exemplification of the cultural, economic, social or historical
heritage of the community;
      (7)   Portrayal of the environment of a group of people in an era of
history characterized by distinctive architectural style or sequence of styles;
      (8)   Embodiment of distinguishing characteristics of an architectural
type or specimen;
      (9)   Embodiment of elements of architectural design, detail, materials
or craftsmanship which represents a significant architectural innovation;
      (10)   Relationship to other distinctive buildings, sites or areas which
are eligible for preservation according to a plan based on historic, culture or
architectural motif;
      (11)   Unique location of singular physical characteristics representing
an established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood, community or the
city;
      (12)   Archeological value in that it has produced or can be expected to
produce data affecting theories of historic or prehistoric interest; and
      (13)   Value as an aspect of community sentiment and/or public pride.
   (C)   Prior listing in the National Register of Historic Places or the State
Register of Historic Places, the FSHPRC may inform the designation decision but
shall not serve as the sole criterion for local historic designation. The
Commission shall consider additional local historical, architectural, cultural
and community significance when making designation determinations.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025; Ord. 3795, passed 3-17-2026)
§ 152.049 DECISIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF FSHPRC.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the closure of the public hearing, if the FSHPRC
finds that the evidence submitted at the hearing meets the criteria for
designation, it shall render a decision that the nominated historic structure
or historic site or a recommendation to the City Commission that the nominated
historic district meets the criteria for designation as a historic structure,
historic site or historic district.
   (B)   The decision or recommendation shall be accompanied by the following
information:
      (1)   Explanation of the integrity of the nominated historic structure,
historic site or historic district as it relates to the criteria for
designation;
      (2)   Explanation of the significance of the nominated historic
structure, historic site or historic district as it relates to the criteria for
designation; and
      (3)   The FSHPRC shall also set forth the following:
         (a)   The significant architectural features of the nominated historic
structure, historic site or historic district that should be protected;
         (b)   The types of construction, alteration, demolition and removal
that should be reviewed for appropriateness;
         (c)   Proposed design guidelines for applying the criteria for
designation to certificates of appropriateness for the nominated historic
structure, historic site or historic district;
         (d)   The relationship of the nominated historic structure, historic
site or historic district to the ongoing effort of the FSHPRC to identify and
designate historic structures, historic sites and historic districts that meet
the criteria for designation;
         (e)   Recommendations as to appropriate height and area regulations,
setbacks, minimum dwelling size, floor area, sign regulations and parking
regulations necessary or appropriate to the preservation of the nominated
historic structure, historic site or historic district; and
         (f)   A map showing the location of the nominated historic structure
or historic site and the boundaries of the nominated historic district.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.050 NOMINATIONS; CONSIDERATION BY CITY COMMISSION.
   The City Commission shall, after receiving the recommendation from the
FSHPRC, either designate historic district or reject the recommendation. If the
City Commission rejects the recommendation, it shall provide the FSHPRC with
reasons for rejection of the nomination.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.051 DESIGNATION ORDINANCE.
   Once a structure or site has been designated historic by the FSHPRC or a
district has been designated by the City Commission, the designation shall be
made effective by adoption of a designation ordinance by the City Commission.
The designation ordinance shall set forth the design guidelines for applying
the criteria for designation, significant architectural features, the types
appropriateness, height and area regulations, setbacks, minimum, dwelling size,
sign regulation and parking regulation to establish a baseline for future
consideration of an application for certificate of appropriateness regarding
the property. The City Clerk shall provide a copy of the designation ordinance
by regular mail to the owner(s) of the historic structure, historic site or
historic district. The failure of the City Clerk to provide a copy of the
designation ordinance to the owner(s) of record does not nullify the
designation ordinance.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.052 INTERIM CONTROL.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued by the city for alteration,
construction, demolition or removal of a nominated historic structure, historic
site or property within a historic district from the date a completed
application is first presented to the FSHPRC until the final disposition of the
nomination by the City Commission unless alteration, removal or demolition is
authorized by formal resolution of the City Commission.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any application for a building permit
that complies with all other applicable ordinances shall not be denied if more
than 180 days have passed since a completed application is presented to the
FSHPRC.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.053 DENIAL OF DESIGNATION.
   (A)   A determination by the FSHPRC that the nominated structure, site or
district does not meet the criteria for designation shall be a final
administrative decision.
   (B)   Rejection of a recommendation for designation of a district by the
City Commission shall be a final administrative decision.
   (C)   Nominations for structure, sites and districts which have been denied
designation within the prior 12-month period will not be considered by the
FSHPRC.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.054 AMENDMENT AND RESCISSION OF DESIGNATION.
   (A)   A designation may be amended or rescinded upon petition to the FSHPRC
and compliance with the procedures for designation set forth in this chapter.
Decisions regarding rescission shall be based upon demonstrated loss of
historic significance, loss of integrity or material error in the original
designation process or documentation. The preference of a property owner alone
shall not constitute sufficient basis for rescission.
   (B)   In evaluating rescission requests, the Commission may distinguish
between loss of integrity resulting from circumstances beyond an owner’s
control, including natural disaster, and loss resulting from willful neglect.
The Commission may address demolition by neglect consistent with enforcement
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025; Ord. 3795, passed 3-17-2026)
**** CERTIFICATION OF APPROPRIATENESS ****
§ 152.065 REQUIREMENT; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   No person shall undertake the demolition or alteration of any historic
structure, historic site or property within a historic district without first
obtaining a certificate of appropriateness, provided however, the city shall be
exempt from the requirement of a certificate of appropriateness. A certificate
of appropriateness shall be required for designated historic structures for the
following types of construction, alternation or demolition:
      (1)   Demolition requiring a permit;
      (2)   Alterations of exterior features/materials identified as
significant in the ordinance designating the historic structure;
      (3)   Construction of new structures; and
      (4)   Alterations of the building site.
   (B)   A certificate of appropriateness shall be required for designated
historic sites for the following types of construction, alteration or
demolition:
      (1)   Demolition requiring a permit;
      (2)   Alterations of features/materials identified as significant in the
ordinance designating the historic site;
      (3)   Construction of additions; and
      (4)   Construction of new structures.
   (C)   A certificate of appropriateness shall be required for properties
within designated historic districts for the following types of construction,
alteration or demolition:
      (1)   Demolition requiring a permit;
      (2)   Alterations of features/materials identified as significant in the
ordinance designating the historic district; and
      (3)   Construction of new structures.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of a structure or site.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.066 APPLICATIONS; ACCOMPANYING PLANS.
   (A)   Application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be made on a
form approved by the FSHPRC.
   (B)   A copy of every application for a building or demolition permit
received by the city, including any accompanying plans and specifications
affecting the exterior architectural appearance of a designated historic
property or structure in a historic district shall be forwarded by the Building
Official to the administrator who shall initiate an application for a
certificate of appropriateness. The city’s Building Inspector shall not issue a
building or demolition permit until a certificate of appropriateness has been
issued by the FSHPRC, unless the structure has been determined to be unsafe and
dangerous pursuant to K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq. or a similar city ordinance.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.067 CONSIDERATION AND APPROVAL.
   The FSHPRC shall review the application for a certificate of appropriateness
and determine whether issuance of a certificate of appropriateness should be
approved or denied within 45 days of receipt of the application. If the
application for a certificate of appropriateness complies with the designation
ordinance and the criteria for designation, the FSHPRC must approve the
certificate of appropriateness. The FSHPRC may also approve the issuance of a
certificate of appropriateness if the applicant agrees to meet specific
conditions regarding modifications to the proposed project so that it complies
with the designation ordinance and the criteria for designation. Written notice
of the approval of the application for a certificate of appropriateness, with
conditions if applicable, shall be provided to the applicant within seven
working days following the determination and shall be accompanied by a
certificate of appropriateness.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.068 DENIAL.
   If the application for a certificate of appropriateness does not comply with
the designation ordinance or the criteria for designation and the applicant
does not agree to meet specific conditions regarding modification to the
proposed project so that it complies with the designation ordinance and the
criteria for designation, the FSHPRC must not approve the certificate of
appropriateness. A denial of a certificate of appropriateness shall be
accompanied by a statement of the reasons for the denial. The FSHPRC shall make
recommendations to the applicant concerning changes, if any, in the proposed
action that would cause the FSHPRC to reconsider its denial and shall confer
with the applicant and attempt to resolve as quickly as possible the
differences between the applicant and the FSHPRC. The applicant may resubmit an
amended application that takes into consideration the recommendations of the
FSHPRC.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.069 CRITERIA TO DETERMINE APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   The FSHPRC shall adopt principles and guidelines establishing criteria
for new construction, alterations, additions, moving and demolition of
structures, sites, objects or properties in a historic district.
   (B)   Criteria includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Specific design criteria for exterior alterations of historic
properties or historic districts shall be based on the U.S. Secretary of the
Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, as published in 36 C.F.R. part 67, as
revised from time to time, and by further reference to such specific design
criteria as the FSHPRC may require;
      (2)   New construction and additions to existing structures shall be
sensitive to and take into account the special historic district or historic
characteristics including height, scale, orientation, site coverage, spatial
separations, facade and window patterns, entrance and porch size and general
design, materials, texture, color, architectural detail, roof forms, vertical
or horizontal elements, wall, fences, landscaping and other features;
      (3)   An application for certificate of appropriateness for purposes of
demolition shall be delayed for a period not to exceed 180 days. The maximum
period of delay may be reduced whenever the FSHPRC determines the owner will
suffer extreme hardship or will be deprived of all beneficial use of the
property by virtue of the delay. In either instance, the FSHPRC shall use the
delay to negotiate with the owner and interested parties to find a means to
preserve the historic property;
      (4)   For those structures or property(ies) that have been designated as
a historic structure, or structures located in a historical district, which are
being considered for condemnation as a dangerous and unsafe structure under
K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq. or a similar city ordinance, the FSHPRC shall be
considered an interested party and the city shall be required to give the
FSHPRC the same notice required to be given to the owner of the property. The
FSHPRC shall prepare a recommendation of whether the structure should be
condemned as dangerous and unsafe and what alternatives are available for
repair of the structure. The report shall be submitted at the date and time
specified by the City Commission for a public hearing;
      (5)   Existing characteristics shall include trees, walls, paving
materials, fencing, walkways and other site features that reflect the historic
property(ies) significance or protected from demolition or alteration;
      (6)   Landscaping shall be appropriate to the scale and feature of the
historic property;
      (7)   Accessory structures shall be appropriate to and compatible with
the architectural features of the primary structure. Non-contributory
structures shall not distract from the historic property(ies);
      (8)   Archeological sites will be protected and preserved;
      (9)   New additions, exterior alterations or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials, features and spatial relationships that
characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old
and shall be compatible with the historic materials, features, size, scale and
proportion and massing to protect the integrity of the property and its
environment; and
      (10)   A property shall be used as it was historically or be given a new
use that requires minimal change to its distinctive materials, features, spaces
and spatial relationships.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.070 APPEALS.
   The applicant for a certificate of appropriateness may appeal die denial of
the certificate of appropriateness to the City Commission by filing a notice of
appeal with the City Clerk within 30 days of the date the FSHPRC denies the
certificate of appropriateness. The City Commission shall conduct a hearing
within 30 days. The City Commission shall base its decision on the same
guidelines as set forth in §
152.067 of this chapter and shall either approve or deny the certificate of
appropriateness in the same manner specified in §§
152.067 and
152.068 of this chapter.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 152.071 REVIEW OF CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR LOCALLY DESIGNATED
PROPERTIES.
   Review of certificates of appropriateness for locally designated properties
shall occur at a public meeting of the FSHPRC with opportunity for public
comment. When significant alteration, demolition or new construction is
proposed, or when otherwise required by Commission bylaws, a public hearing
shall be conducted prior to final action.
(Ord. 3795, passed 3-17-2026)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a Class B misdemeanor, punishable by up to a $1,000 fine or six months in
jail, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day during which any such
violation is committed, continued or permitted shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 3782, passed 6-17-2025)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Definitions
   
153.002   Camping trailers
   
153.003   Advertising trailers
   
153.004   Hauling trailers
   
153.005   Non-residential structures
   
153.006   Mobile home permits; conditions for issuance
Manufactured Homes Generally
   
153.020   Purpose and intent
   
153.021   Definitions
   
153.022   Applicability
   
153.023   Exterior appearance standards
   
153.024   Schedule of uses; approval
   
153.025   Installation standards
   
153.026   Zoning permits; fees
   
153.027   Siding materials
   
153.028   Roofing materials
Permanent Placement of Manufactured Homes
   
153.040   Title
   
153.041   Purpose
   
153.042   Scope
   
153.043   Definitions
   
153.044   Design and construction
   
153.045   Foundations
   
153.046   Piers
   
153.047   Anchoring installations
   
153.048   Perimeter enclosures
   
153.049   Utility connections
Types III and IV Manufactured Home and Mobile Home Installation Standards
   
153.060   Clearance
   
153.061   Underfloor areas; access and ventilation
   
153.062   Pier construction; height
   
153.063   Anchoring installations
   
153.064   Ties
   
153.065   Skirting installation
   
153.066   Utility connections
   
153.067   Inspections
Mobile Home Parks
   
153.080   Permit; issuance and conditions
   
153.081   Plan; content; recommendations and criteria; submittal
   
153.082   Permit; expiration and reapplication
   
153.083   Minimum size
   
153.084   Minimum space size; density
   
153.085   Stand and skirt requirements
   
153.086   Street and drive requirements
   
153.087   Off-street parking
   
153.088   Park and playground space
   
153.089   Open space
   
153.090   Utilities
   
153.091   License; fees
   
153.092   Appearance and maintenance
   
153.093   License and permit cancellation; owner responsibility
Mobile Home Subdivisions
   
153.105   Permitted under subdivision regulations; general requirements
 
   
153.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISING TRAILER. A trailer, as defined herein, but carrying or having
attached thereto a sign, billboard or other media for advertising purposes,
such advertising being the prime purpose and use of the trailer.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.120)
   CAMPING TRAILER. A trailer, as defined herein, equipped with an enclosure
for sleeping while on vacation or other trips of short duration. Such CAMPING
TRAILERS may also contain cooking, bath and sanitary equipment. Size and
furnishing of such CAMPING TRAILERS may vary widely, but in no case shall they
be considered structures for residential use of a temporary or permanent
nature, for purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.130)
   DOUBLE-WIDE MOBILE HOME. A mobile home, as defined herein, having been built
in two sections at the factory, which two sections are transported over the
road separately, with assembly into one structure of a width of not less than
20 feet occurring at the destination.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.040)
   DRIVE. A right-of-way which affords principal means of vehicular access to
or through a mobile home or trailer park, and which is owned and maintained by
the owner or operator of the park.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.020)
   HAULING TRAILER. A trailer, as defined herein, designed and normally used
for over-the-road transportation of belongings, equipment, merchandise,
livestock and other objects, but equipped for human habitation.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.140)
   MOBILE HOME. A residential structure assembled in total or in not more than
three sections at a factory and transported over the road by truck or temporary
wheel carriage to its destination.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.030)
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land containing suitable drives, utilities and
other supporting elements and devoted to the sole purpose of accommodating
mobile homes on a permanent or semi- permanent basis.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.050)
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. The area of land within a mobile home park set aside for
use as a site for one mobile home, including the open spaces around said mobile
home, as required in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.070)
   MOBILE OR MODULAR HOME SUBDIVISION. An area of land containing not less than
30 lots and the public streets necessary to serve such lots, the purpose of
which is to convey in fee the individual lots for the location of mobile homes
or modular homes in a permanent fashion.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.080)
   MOBILE STRUCTURE FOR COMMERCIAL USE. The structure assembled in total or not
more than three sections at a factory and transported over the road by a truck
or temporary wheel carriage to its destination.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.160)
   MODULAR HOME. A residential structure, assembled in total or in several
sections at a factory. A MODULAR HOME, as distinct from a mobile home, has
exterior building materials and appearance similar to the customary single-
family structures in the neighborhood, and is permanently situated on a
concrete slab or foundation.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.090)
   SINGLE-WIDE MOBILE HOME. A mobile home, as defined herein, being of a width
of not more than 14 feet, measured between the permanent sidewalls thereof.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.060)
   STREET. A right-of-way which affords principal means of vehicular access to
or through a mobile home or trailer park, and which is held in fee by the
public or a governmental unit thereof.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.100)
   TRAILER. A vehicle equipped with wheels and normally towed over the road
behind an automobile or light truck.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.110)
   TRAILER PARK. A tract of land containing sites for the overnight or short-
term parking of camping trailers.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.150)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -1981)
§ 153.002 CAMPING TRAILERS.
   (A)   Camping trailers may be parked in a campground or trailer park;
provided, such camp area is in conformance with the zoning and other ordinances
of the city. No such camping trailer shall be used for permanent or semi-
permanent residential purposes. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use
of tents, pickup campers and other such equipment from also utilizing an
approved campground or camper park.
   (B)   Camping trailers may also be stored, on the basis of one per family,
in private garages, or in the side or rear yards of private homes, business or
industrial areas; provided that, no such trailer shall be used for residential
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.010) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.003 ADVERTISING TRAILERS.
   Advertising trailers may be permitted only on property zoned B-
1 Neighborhood Commercial District through I-2 Heavy Industrial District,
inclusive, and such trailers shall be off the public street and conform to the
setback, height and area regulations for other signs.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.020) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.004 HAULING TRAILERS.
   Hauling trailers, as defined in this chapter, may be stored or rented in
property zoned B-1 Neighborhood Commercial District through I-2 Heavy
Industrial District, inclusive. Hauling trailers customarily towed behind
passenger cars, and not exceeding eight feet of box length, may also be kept or
stored, on the basis of one per family, in private garages, or in the side or
rear yards of private homes.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.030) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.005 NON-RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   There will be no mobile structures, mobile homes or trailers used in any
zoning classification of the city including any flood zones at any time other
than the two exceptions herein. One or more mobile homes or trailers may be
used as temporary offices or other non-residential structures on a site of a
construction project; provided, such structure is removed upon completion of
the project. Mobile structures may be used as temporary classroom facilities in
connection with public schools or private with equivalent curriculum.
(Prior Code, § 16.16.010) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.006 MOBILE HOME PERMITS; CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE.
   No mobile home shall be permitted to be removed into the corporate area of
the city, except for purposes of sale by a licensed dealer, until a building
permit has been issued for its location in a specified mobile home park, mobile
home subdivision or other approved location, in compliance with this chapter
and other ordinances of the city. In addition to compliance with ordinances of
the city, the mobile home shall comply with the minimum standards of the Model
Building Code published by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc.
(NFPA), including any revisions and supplemented reports relative to the same.
Compliance with these standards shall be shown by an approval report prepared
by NFPA, referring to the particular type and model of mobile home for which a
permit is requested. In the event that a structural compliance report is
unavailable, the Building Inspector may, at his or her discretion, inspect the
structure prior to its transportation into the city, and determine whether it
complies with the standards. In the event that all standards, codes and
ordinances are complied with, the applicant shall be issued a building permit,
and the mobile home shall be established in accordance therewith within six
months, or the permit shall become invalid.
(Prior Code, § 16.20.010) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
**** MANUFACTURED HOMES GENERALLY ****
§ 153.020 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Type I and Type II. It is the intent of this chapter to encourage the
provision of alternative modest-income housing in general residential areas by
permitting the use of Type I and Type II manufactured homes, as defined herein,
in all districts in which similar dwellings constructed on site are permitted,
subject to the requirements and procedures set forth herein to assure
acceptable similarity in exterior appearance between such Type I and Type II
manufactured homes and dwellings that have been or might be constructed under
these and other lawful regulations on adjacent or nearby lots in the same
district.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.010)
   (B)   Type III and Type IV. It is the further intent of this chapter to
encourage the provision of alternative modest income housing in certain
residential areas by permitting the use of Type III and Type IV manufactured
housing, as defined herein in certain specified districts, when they are shown
to meet the requirements and procedures set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.020)
   (C)   Mobile homes. It is the intent of this chapter to recognize mobile
homes constructed prior to 6-15-1976, as distinct and different from units
designated as manufactured homes, Types I, II, III and IV, and to prescribe
appropriate procedures and requirements for their placement in the community.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.030)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ADD-A-ROOM UNIT. A unit of manufactured housing, not designed as a part of
the original structure, which may have less occupied space than a manufactured
housing section.
   ANCHORING SYSTEM. An approved system of straps, cables, turnbuckles, chains,
ties or other approved materials used to secure a manufactured or mobile home.
   ANSI/NFPA 501. A standard for installation of (manufactured) mobile homes,
means those model mobile homes, as adopted and copyrighted by the National Fire
Protection Association and the Manufactured Housing Institute.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to the appropriate authority having jurisdiction, by
reason of investigation, accepted principles or tests by nationally recognized
organizations.
   BUILDING CODE. The officially adopted Building Code in effect within the
municipality.
   EXPANDO UNIT. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   FOUNDATION CODE. The “Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured
Homes”, as adopted by ordinance.
   FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING. A type of wainscoting constructed of fire and
weather resistant material, such as aluminum, asbestos board, treated pressed
wood or other approved materials, enclosing the entire undercarriage of the
manufactured or mobile home.
   IMMEDIATE AREA. An area 250 feet in all directions of the legally described
lot or parcel on which the manufactured home or mobile home is to be placed. If
there are no residences within the IMMEDIATE AREA, then the exterior finish
must consist of material approved on the siding and roofing materials list as
set out in this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated on or after 6-15-1976, in an
off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code. The four types of
MANUFACTURED HOMES (Type I, Type II, Type III and Type IV) are defined as
meeting all of the appropriate requirements of §
153.023 of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. As defined in M-S District regulations of
Ord. 2992 (zoning and subdivision regulations).
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title VI of the
1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder (including information supplied
by the home manufacturer, which has been stamped and approved by a design
approval primary inspection agency, an agent of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to HUD rules), which became effective for
mobile/ manufactured home construction on 6-15-1976.
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY (PARK). As defined in M-P District
regulations of Ord. 2992 (zoning and subdivision regulations).
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure larger than 320 square feet, designed
to be used as a year-round residential dwelling, and built prior to the
enactment of the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of 1975, which
became effective for all mobile home construction 6-15-1976.
   OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding accessory structures, such as, but not limited to,
garages, patios and porches.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Any structural system for transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A permanent perimeter system completely
enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A portable vehicular structure not built to the
Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code (or the
obsolete ANSI 119.1 Mobile Home Design and Construction Standard) designed for
travel, recreational camping or vacation purposes, either having its own motor
power or mounted onto or drawn by another vehicle, and including, but not
limited to, travel and camping trailers, truck campers and motor homes.
   SECTION. A unit of a manufactured home at least ten body feet in width and
30 body feet in length.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT. A device for permitting a use within a district
other than a principally permitted use.
   SUPPORT SYSTEM. A pad or a combination of footings, piers, caps, plates and
shims, which, when properly installed, support the manufactured or mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.040) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.022 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Permitted placement. The establishment, location and use of
manufactured homes as permanent residences approved individually, by specific
materials or by design, is permitted in any zone permitting installation of a
dwelling unit, subject to requirements and limitations applying generally to
such residential use in the district; and, provided, such homes shall meet the
following requirements and limitations.
      (1)   The dwelling shall meet the appropriate exterior appearance
standards, as hereinafter set forth in §
153.023 of this chapter.
      (2)   The dwelling shall be sited in a district where such use is
permitted in the schedule of uses, as hereinafter set forth in §
153.024 of this chapter.
      (3)   The dwelling shall receive all required permits and conform with
the comprehensive plan and other ordinances of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.050)
   (B)   Location out of parks. This chapter shall apply to all manufactured or
mobile homes located within areas covered by this code of ordinances, including
the zoning and subdivision regulations thereof.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.060)
   (C)   Non-conforming homes. A manufactured or mobile home placed and
maintained on a tract of land and deemed to be a legal non-conforming use prior
to the adoption of this chapter, shall continue to be a legal non-conforming
use. If the non-conforming use is discontinued, the land thereafter must be
used in conformity with all provisions of the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.070)
   (D)   Structural additions or alteration. Due to its integral design, any
structural alteration or modification of a manufactured or mobile home after it
is placed on the site must be approved by the Zoning Administrator of the city.
All structural additions shall comply with the municipality’s Building Codes.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.080)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985;
Ord. 2949, passed - -1986)
§ 153.023 EXTERIOR APPEARANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Manufactured home classification generally. Manufactured homes shall
be classified as to acceptable compatibility or similarity in appearance with
site-constructed residences as set out in this section.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.090)
   (B)   Classification Type I. A Type I manufactured home shall:
      (1)   Have more than 950 square feet of occupied space in a typically
double-section or larger multi-section unit;
      (2)   Be placed onto a permanent foundation;
      (3)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §
153.025 of this chapter;
      (4)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with the municipality’s
Foundation Code and to the manufacturer’s specifications;
      (5)   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanism removed;
      (6)   Have utilities connected, in accordance with the Building Code or
manufacturer’s specifications, whichever is more restrictive;
      (7)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences which is compatible with 40% of the housing in the immediate area;
      (8)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences which is compatible with 40% of the housing in the
immediate area;
      (9)   Have open, covered and/or enclosed parking structure which is
compatible with other housing in immediate area; and
      (10)   Not have been used as a residence or for any other purpose other
than offered for sale.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.100)
   (C)   Classification Type II. A Type II manufactured home shall:
      (1)   Have more than 720 square feet of occupied space in a single,
double, expando or multi-section unit (including those with add-a-room units);
      (2)   Be placed on a permanent foundation;
      (3)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §
153.025 of this chapter;
      (4)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and the Foundation Code;
      (5)   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      (6)   Have utilities connected in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications or the Building Code, whichever is more restrictive;
      (7)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences which is compatible with 40% of the housing in the immediate area;
      (8)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences which is compatible with 40% of the housing in the
immediate area;
      (9)   Have open, covered and/or enclosed parking structure which is
compatible with other housing in immediate area; and
      (10)   Not have been used as a residence, or for any other purpose other
than offered for sale.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.110)
   (D)   Classification Type III. A Type III manufactured home shall:
      (1)   Have more than 400 square feet of occupied space in a single,
double, expando or multi-section unit (including those with add-a-room units);
      (2)   Be placed onto a support system, in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §
153.025 of this chapter;
      (3)   Be enclosed with foundation siding/skirting, in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §
153.025 of this chapter;
      (4)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and the Building Code;
      (5)   Have utilities connected, in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and the Building Code;
      (6)   Not have been used as a residence or for any other purpose other
than offered for sale;
      (7)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences which is compatible with 40% of the housing in the immediate area;
and
      (8)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences which is compatible with 40% of the housing in the
immediate area.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.120)
   (E)   Classification Type IV. A Type IV manufactured home shall be as
follows: a used home shall be considered a Type IV manufactured home and shall:
      (1)   Have more than 400 square feet of occupied space in a single,
double, expando or multi-section unit (including those with add-a-room units);
      (2)   Be placed onto a support system, in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §
153.025 of this chapter;
      (3)   Be enclosed with foundation siding/skirting, in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §
153.025 of this chapter;
      (4)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and the Building Code; and
      (5)   Have utilities connected, in accordance with manufacturer’s
specification or the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.130)
   (F)   Mobile homes; placement. For purpose of determining appropriateness
for placement, mobile homes shall:
      (1)   Have more than 320 square feet of occupied space;
      (2)   Be placed onto support system, in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in §
153.025 of this chapter;
      (3)   Be enclosed with foundation siding/skirting, in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §
153.025 of this chapter;
      (4)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and the Foundation Code; and
      (5)   Have utilities connected, in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.140)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.024 SCHEDULE OF USES; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Manufactured or mobile homes are permitted uses, as follows:
Zoning District Type I MF Type II MF Type in MF Type IV MF Mobile Home
Zoning District          Type I MF Type II MF Type in MF Type IV MF Mobile Home
A-L Agricultural         X         X          P          P          P
District
C-1 Neighborhood         O         O          O          O          O
Shopping District
C-2 General Commercial   O         O          O          O          O
District
C-3 Central Business     O         O          O          O          O
District
C-O Office and           O         O          O          O          O
Institution District
C-S Highway Service      O         O          O          O          O
District
I-1 Light Industrial     O         O          O          O          O
District
I-2 Heavy Industrial     O         O          O          O          O
District
M-P Mobile Home Park
District (including the
mobile home parks within X         X          X          X          C
the city that are
legally non-conforming
uses)
M-S Mobile Home          X         X          X          X          C
Subdivision District
PUD Planned Unit         P         P          P          P          O
Development District
R-1 Single-Family        X         X          O          O          O
Dwelling District
R-2 Single-Family        X         X          O          O          O
Dwelling District
R-3 Two-Family Dwelling  X         X          O          O          O
District
R-4 Multiple-Family      X         X          O          O          O
Dwelling District
R-S Residential Suburban X         X          O          O          O
District
Notes to Table:
X = permitted use
P = with Planning Commission approval
O = prohibited use
C = Codes Enforcement Officer
 
(Prior Code, § 16.08.150)
   (B)   Prior to the placement of a mobile home in a mobile home park or a
mobile home subdivision, an inspection of such unit must be conducted by the
Codes Enforcement Officer or his or her designee. The mobile home to be placed
must meet the minimum Building, Electrical, Plumbing and Structural Codes of
the city to the satisfaction of the Codes Enforcement Officer. The installation
of the mobile home must be done in accordance with the standards set forth in
§§
153.060 through
153.067 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.155)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985;
Ord. 2949, passed - -1986)
§ 153.025 INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permanent perimeter enclosure. Those manufactured homes designated in
the zoning ordinances as requiring perimeter enclosure must be set onto an
excavated area, with permanent perimeter enclosure, foundations, footings and
crawl space or basement walls constructed in accordance with the terms of the
Foundation Code. The space between the floor joists of the home and the
excavated underfloor grade shall be completely enclosed with the permanent
perimeter enclosure (except for required openings).
(Prior Code, § 16.08.160)
   (B)   Foundation siding/skirting for Type III, Type IV, mobile home.
      (1)   All manufactured or mobile homes without a permanent perimeter
enclosure shall have an approved foundation siding/skirting enclosing the
entire perimeter of the home. Foundation siding/skirting and backup framing
shall be weather-resistant, non-combustible or self-extinguishing materials,
which blend with the exterior siding of the home. Below grade level and for a
minimum distance of six inches above finish grade, the materials shall be
unaffected by decay or oxidation. The siding shall be installed in accordance
with manufacturer’s recommendations or approved equal standards.
      (2)   The siding shall be ventilated by openings, which shall have a net
area of not less than one and one-half square feet for each 25 linear feet of
exterior perimeter. The openings shall be covered with corrosion-resistant wire
mesh not larger than one-half inch in any dimension. The underfloor area shall
be provided with an 18-inch by 24-inch minimum size access crawl hole, which
shall not be blocked by pipes, ducts or other construction interfering with the
accessibility of the underfloor space or other approved access mechanism.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.170)
   (C)   Support system.
      (1)   Type I and Type II manufactured homes. All HUD Code Type I and Type
II manufactured home load-bearing foundations shall be installed in conformance
with the regulations in the Foundation Code and with the manufacturer’s
installation specifications.
      (2)   Type III, Type IV manufactured homes and mobile homes. All HUD Code
Type III manufactured homes and all mobile homes not placed on a permanent
foundation shall be installed on a support system in conformance with the
manufacturer’s installation specifications or with the Foundation Code.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.180)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.026 ZONING PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   Zoning permit requirements. Prior to the location, relocation or
establishment of any manufactured home outside of a mobile home community
(park), the homeowner or authorized representative shall secure a zoning
permit, which states that the building and its location conform with the zoning
ordinance. Each application for a zoning permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Those plot plans as required for all dwelling units, but which at a
minimum include elevations or photographs of all sides of the home, exterior
dimensions, roof materials, foundation siding or permanent perimeter enclosure
treatment, foundation siding or perimeter retaining wall treatment, foundation
construction and materials, exterior finishes and the like;
      (2)   Health Department approval for any sewage disposal or water supply;
      (3)   PUD or subdivision permit approval, where applicable;
      (4)   A copy of the approved instructions, which will be used for
installation purposes, where applicable; and
      (5)   Such other information, as may be required by the Zoning
Administrator for proper enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.190)
   (B)   Issuance. After receipt of the information required for a zoning
permit, the Zoning Administrator shall review the standards set out in this
chapter. If the applicant has met all required standards, then within five
working days, the zoning permit shall be issued by the designated
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.200)
   (C)   Additional action necessary. If, after receipt of the information
required for the zoning permit, the Zoning Administrator finds that the
applicant has not fully met the standards set out in the chapter, and the
changes or additional actions needed are deemed by the designated Administrator
to be relatively minor or simple, within five working days, a conditional
approval can be issued, with the stated conditions which must be met prior to
occupancy spelled out and the reasons for change clearly stated in writing. If
the applicant agrees in writing to the further conditions, the effect being an
amendment to the application to conform to the requirements, approval is given
and the applicant proceeds. If the applicant does not agree, the application is
denied, with reasons stated in writing.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.210)
   (D)   Denial. If any of the major elements are clearly out of line with the
standards, within five working days issuance of the zoning permit will be
denied, with a written statement specifying the reasons for the denial.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.220)
   (E)   Failure to obtain required permits. Failure to obtain either a zoning
permit or a certificate of occupancy shall be a violation of this chapter and
punishable under the provisions of §
153.999 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.230)
   (F)   Permit fees. Permit fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Conditional use (zoning permits as per zoning and subdivision
regulations in the three-mile area): $10; and
      (2)   Permits for placement within the city: in accordance with the
building permit fee schedule in force at the time of placement.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.240)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.027 SIDING MATERIALS.
   The following siding materials are approved for usage on manufactured homes.
Any deviation from this list must be with prior approval of the Planning
Commission:
   (A)   Residential horizontal aluminum lap siding;
   (B)   Residential horizontal vinyl lap siding;
   (C)   Cedar or other wood siding;
   (D)   Wood grain, weather-resistant, pressboard siding;
   (E)   Stucco siding; and
   (F)   Brick or stone siding.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.250) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.028 ROOFING MATERIALS.
   The following roofing materials are approved for usage on manufactured
homes. Any deviation from this list must be with prior approval of the Planning
Commission:
   (A)   Asbestos shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
   (B)   Fiberglass shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
   (C)   Shake shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
   (D)   Asphalt shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles; and
   (E)   Tile materials on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the materials.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.260) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
**** PERMANENT PLACEMENT OF MANUFACTURED HOMES ****
§ 153.040 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Standard for the Permanent
Installation of Manufactured Homes”, may be cited as such, and will be referred
to herein as “this standard” or “this subchapter”.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.270) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.041 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this standard is to provide minimum standards to safeguard
life or limb, health, property and public welfare in the city by regulating and
controlling the design, construction and quality of materials for permanent
foundation systems and building service equipment connections which are
necessary to provide for the permanent installation of manufactured homes.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.280) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.042 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this standard shall apply to the following:
      (1)   Construction of any foundation and anchorage system provided for
the permanent installation of manufactured homes that are constructed in a
factory and which may be designed either to be towed on their own chassis or be
site-delivered by alternative means; and
      (2)   Connection of the building service equipment which is necessary for
the permanent use of manufactured homes.
   (B)   This standard shall not be applicable to the design and construction
of manufactured homes nor shall it be deemed to authorize either modifications
or additions to manufactured homes where otherwise prohibited. This standard
shall not be construed as relieving the installer of a manufactured home of
responsibility for compliance with any other municipal ordinances, codes and
appropriate regulations, or manufacturer’s instructions for permanent
installation.
   (C)   The scope of this standard is limited to the installation of
permanently sited manufactured homes intended to be used as a permanent
dwelling not located in a manufactured home community (mobile home park).
(Prior Code, § 16.08.290) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.043 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. For the purpose
of this standard, certain abbreviations, terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in this subchapter. Words used in
the singular include the plural and the plural the singular. Words used in the
masculine gender include the feminine, and the feminine the masculine.
   (B)   Where the terms are not defined, they shall have their ordinary
accepted meanings within the context with which they are used. “Webster’s Third
New International Dictionary of the English Language”, Unabridged, copyright
1981, shall be considered as providing ordinary accepted meanings.
      ADD-A-ROOM. A unit of manufactured housing not designed as a part of the
original structure which is constructed to code requirements and is not a
manufactured home. It is not to be considered an accessory structure.
      ANCHORING SYSTEMS. A combination of ties, anchoring equipment and/or
anchoring devices that are designed to resist overturning, uplift and lateral
movement of the manufactured home from wind forces.
      APPROVED. Acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction, by reason of
code compliance, investigation, industry standards or testing by nationally
recognized organizations.
      APPROVED AGENCY. An agency approved by the Building Official which is
regularly engaged in conducting tests or furnishing inspection services.
      AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION. The organization or office responsible for
approving an installation or procedure.
      BUILDING CODE. The Building Code as adopted by the municipality.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of this standard, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
      BUILDING SERVICE EQUIPMENT. The plumbing, mechanical or electrical
equipment, including piping, wiring fixtures and other accessories, which
provide sanitation, lighting, heating, ventilation or cooling essential for the
habitable occupancy of the building or structure for its designated use and
occupancy.
      CAP. An insert of concrete, metal or decay resisting wood placed between
the top of the pier and the bottom of a floor beam for leveling purposes, and
may include leveling spacers.
      CODE ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. The agency which is charged with the
responsibility of administering this standard.
      DIAGONAL TIE. A tie intended to primarily resist lateral or shear forces
and which may secondarily resist uplift and overturning forces. DIAGONAL TIES
shall be placed along the main frame.
      DWELLING. One or more habitable rooms which are designed to be primarily
occupied by one family with facilities for living, sleeping, cooking, eating
and sanitation.
      ELECTRICAL CODE. The Electrical Code as adopted by the municipality.
      FOOTING. The portion of the foundation of a structure which spreads and
transmits loads directly to the soil or to bearing piles at a depth below the
established frost line without exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the
supporting soil.
      FOUNDATION SYSTEM. See MANUFACTURED HOME FOUNDATION.
      JURISDICTION. The incorporated area of the municipality, together with
any extraterritorial jurisdiction as may be granted through an
intergovernmental corporation agreement.
      LISTED and LISTING. Equipment and materials published in a listing by an
approved testing agency, which is qualified and equipped for experimental
testing, which maintains an adequate periodic inspection of current productions
and whose listing states that the equipment complies with recognized safety
standards.
      MAIN FRAME. The primary structural component on which the body of the
manufactured home is mounted.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling which is fabricated in one or more modules
at a location other than the home site, by assembly-line type production
techniques or by other construction methods unique to an off-site manufacturing
process. Every module shall bear a label certifying that is built in compliance
with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards. For
mobile homes built prior to 6-15-1976, a label certifying compliance to the
Standard for Mobile Homes, NFPA 501 ANSI 119.1, in effect at the time of
manufacture is required. For the purpose of this document, a “mobile home”
shall be considered a MANUFACTURED HOME. A MANUFACTURED HOME is designed to be
towed on its own chassis or be site-delivered by alternative means.
      MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS. A standard for the
construction, design and performance of a manufactured home. This standard is
set forth in 24 C.F.R. parts 3280, 3282 and 3283 and 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.,
as mandated in the United States of America and as administrated by the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
      MANUFACTURED HOME FOUNDATION. A site-built or assembled system of
stabilizing devices which:
         (a)   Is capable of transferring design dead loads and live loads
established by the Building Code, and other required design loads, such as
special site conditions, wind and water site conditions, that are imposed by or
upon the structure, into the underlying soil and/or bedrock without failure and
without exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil;
         (b)   In frost-susceptible areas, has its lower surface placed at or
below the frost line or which is otherwise adequately insulated/protected to
prevent frost movement;
         (c)   Is constructed of materials acceptable to the authority having
jurisdiction; and
         (d)   Meets the requirements and standards of MPS 4900.1, 1982
Edition, and MPS 4930.1, 1973 Edition, as published by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development, as amended.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PERMANENT INSTALLATION. The construction which is
required for the permanent installation of a manufactured home, including
construction of the foundation system and required structural connection of on-
site water, gas, electrical and sewer systems, which are necessary for the
normal operation of the manufactured home.
      MECHANICAL CODE. The adopted Mechanical Code of the municipality.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling, constructed to be towed on
its own chassis and which is capable of connection to utilities for year-round
occupancy. It can consist of one or more components that can be retracted for
delivery purposes and subsequently expanded for additional capacity, or it can
consist of two or more units separately deliverable, but designed to be joined
onto one integral unit. It shall have been built prior to the enactment of the
National Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, which
became effective for all mobile home construction on 6-15-1976.
      OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area horizontally covered by the structure in
its occupied configuration, excluding accessory structures, such as, but not
limited to, garages, patios and porches.
      PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A perimeter enclosure system which completely
encloses the space between the floor of the home and the ground.
      PIER. The portion of the support system between the footing and the
manufactured home structure exclusive of caps and leveling spacers, but not
including foundation walls.
      PLUMBING CODE. The adopted Plumbing Code of the municipality.
      SHALL. As used in this standard, it is mandatory.
      SKIRTING, FOUNDATION. A type of wainscoting constructed of fire and
weather-resistant material, such as aluminum, asbestos board, treated pressed
wood or other approved materials, enclosing the entire undercarriage of a
manufactured home in its sited configuration.
      STABILIZING DEVICES. Any of the components of the anchoring and support
systems such as piers, footings, foundation walls, ties, anchoring equipment,
anchoring devices and any other equipment which supports the manufactured home
and secures it in its sited position.
      STABILIZING SYSTEM. The combination of the anchoring system and the
support system when properly installed.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner.
      TIE. Straps, cables or securing devices used to connect the manufactured
home to anchoring devices.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.300) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.044 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. Manufactured homes required to be installed onto a
permanent foundation shall be designed and constructed to sustain all vertical
and horizontal loads as specified in this standard. The permanent foundations
shall also be required to transfer any other imposed forces from the
manufactured home to undisturbed ground below the established frost line,
without failure and exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.310)
   (B)   Dead and live loads. The foundation system shall be designed and
constructed to sustain all dead and live loads imposed thereon. The dead load
used in the design shall be the actual weight of the manufactured home unit to
be installed. The live load, including wind and uplift and snow loads used in
the design, shall be those set forth in the Building Code for single-family
dwellings. Uplift due to overturning forces shall be adequately resisted by the
anchoring system.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.320)
   (C)   Combined loads. For the purpose of determining stresses, all vertical
design loads, including roof live loads, shall be considered as acting
simultaneously. In computing the effect of wind force in combination with
vertical loads, roof live loads need not be included; except that, where snow
loading is required in the design of the roof, at least 50% of such snow load
shall be considered acting in combination with the wind load.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.330)
   (D)   Stress increases. All allowable stress and soil-bearing values may tie
increased one-third when considering wind forces. No increase will be allowed
for vertical loads acting alone.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.340)
   (E)   Rationality. Any system or method of construction that is used shall
conform to a rational analysis in accordance with well established engineering
principles.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.350)
   (F)   Footings and foundations.
      (1)   When requested by the Building Official, soil bearing capacities at
each building site shall be determined. The Building Official may require that
the determination be made by a professional engineer or architect.
      (2)   Footings and foundations, unless otherwise specifically provided,
shall be constructed of masonry, concrete or treated wood, in conformance with
the Building Code. The footings shall rest on undisturbed soil or engineered
fill at a depth at or below any established frost line, and be capable of
transferring all design loads imposed by or upon the structure into soil or
bedrock without failure, or exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the
supporting soil.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.360)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.045 FOUNDATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. This section prescribes standards for the proper design and
installation of manufactured home foundations. It further clarifies the
definition of a manufactured home foundation.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.370)
   (B)   Manufactured home foundation system.
      (1)   The manufactured home permanent foundation system constitutes a
permanent, load-bearing support system for the manufactured home. The
manufacturer or owner shall be permitted to design for and specify the
installation of any foundation system which meets the design requirements of
this standard. The foundation system shall be installed as specified in this
standard, or as specified in the Building Code for single-family dwellings, or
be designed by a professional engineer or architect.
      (2)   A pier support system shall consist of footings, piers, caps,
leveling spacers or approved prefabricated load-bearing devices. Foundation
walls which enclose basements shall conform to the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.380)
   (C)   Manufactured homes provided with manufacturer’s instructions for
permanent installations. If the manufacturer provides instructions for
permanent installation, which are designed by a professional engineer or
architect, then the instructions must meet all applicable requirements of the
Building Code and this standard. The Building Official may waive compliance
with this standard if a conflict exists between this standard and the
manufacturer’s instructions. These instructions shall remain with the home.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.390)
   (D)   Manufactured homes without manufacturer’s installation instructions.
Homes not provided with manufacturer’s installation instructions shall be
installed onto a foundation system meeting the requirements of this standard or
be designed by a professional engineer or architect. Unless designed by a
professional engineer or architect, spacing of piers shall be as specified in
the table set out in division (G) below with piers installed directly under the
main frame of the manufactured home, and with not more than two feet of the
main frame cantilevered beyond the end piers.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.400)
   (E)   Clearance under homes; minimum. A minimum clearance of 18 inches shall
be maintained beneath the lowest member of the floor support framing system.
Clearance from the bottom of wood floor joists or perimeter joists shall be as
specified in the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.410)
   (F)   Access to and ventilation of under-floor areas.
      (1)   Under-floor spaces shall be ventilated with openings as specified
in the Building Code. If combustion air for one or more heat-producing
appliances is taken from within the under-floor spaces, ventilation shall be
adequate to assure for proper appliance operation.
      (2)   Access openings shall be not less than 18 inches in any dimension
and not less than three square feet in area and shall be located so that any
water supply and sewer drain connections located under the manufactured home
are accessible for inspection. Access panels or doors shall not be fastened in
a manner requiring the use of a special tool for removal or opening of the
panel or doors.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.420)
   (G)   Footings. The load-bearing capacity of individual load-bearing piers
and their footings shall be not less than the combined live and dead loads as
specified in this standard. Footings shall be adequate in size to withstand the
contributing live and dead loads of the manufactured home and any other imposed
loads. (See the table set out in this section for suggested typical footing
sizes.) Footings or pier foundations (unless otherwise approved by a registered
professional engineer or architect) shall be placed level on firm, undisturbed
soil or on engineered fill, which is free of grass and organic materials,
compacted to a minimum load-bearing capacity as specified in the table set out
below. Where unusual conditions exist, the spacing of piers and the load-
bearing capacity of the soil shall be determined specifically for such
conditions. Concentrated roof loads may require special consideration.
Continuous footings shall conform to the requirements of the Building Code.
Typical Suggested Non-Designed Footing Areas for Allowable Soil Bearing
Capacity
Single Story Only
 20 Roof Live Load 75  30 Roof Live Load 85 (psf) 40 Roof Live Load 95 (psf)
 (psf)
Typical Suggested Non-Designed Footing Areas for Allowable Soil Bearing
Capacity
Single Story Only
          20 Roof Live Load   30 Roof Live Load 85    40 Roof Live Load 95
          75 (psf)            (psf)                   (psf)
Width of                 24(c                    24(c                     24(c
units to                 )                       )                        )
and       12  14 12 14   (12  12   14   12  14   (12  12   14   12   14   (12
including                +12                     +12                      +12
(ft.)                    )                       )                        )
Tributary
pier      6   6  8  8    10   6    6    8   8    10   6    6    8    8    10
spacing
(ft.)
Pier load 27  31 36 42   4500 30   35   408 47   5100 34   39   45   53   5700
(pounds)  00  50 00 00        60   70   0   60        20   90   60   20
Allowabl
e Soil    Minimum Required Footing Area (Square Inch)
Bearing
Capacity
          38  45 51 60   648. 44   51   587 68   734. 49   57   65   76   820.
1000 PSF  8.8 3. 8. 4. 8 0    0. 6 4. 1 .5  5. 4 4    2. 5 4. 6 6. 6 6. 1 0
              4  4
          25  30 34 40   432. 29   34   391 45   489. 32   38   43   51   547.
1500 PSF  9.2 2. 5. 3. 2 0    3. 7 2. 7 .7  6. 9 6    8. 3 3. 0 7. 8 0. 7 2
              3  6
          19  22 25 30   324. 22   25   293 34   367. 24   28   32   38   410.
2000 PSF  4.4 6. 9. 2. 4 0    03   7. 0 .8  2. 7 2    6. 2 7. 3 8. 3 3. 0 4
              5  2
          14  15 17 20   216. 14   17   195 22   244. 16   19   21   25   273.
3000 PSF  4.0 1. 2. 1. 6 0    6. 9 1. 4 .8  8. 5 8    4. 2 1. 5 8. 9 5. 4 6
              2  8
          14  14 14 15   162. 14   14   146 17   183. 14   14   16   19   205.
4000 PSF  4.0 4. 4. 13   0    4. 0 4. 0 .9  1. 4 6    4. 0 4. 0 4. 1 1. 5 2
              0  0
Notes to Table:
(a) If sheathed roof with shingles is used, an additional 5 psf should be
added to the roof design dead load.
(b) If unit is supplied with overhanging eaves, see manufacturer’s
installation instructions.
(c) Multiple section homes may have concentrated roof support which will
require special consideration.
(d) The footing thickness shall be equal to the maximum horizontal distance
from the face of the pier to the edge of the footing, with a minimum thickness
in all cases of 8 inches. Where unusual conditions or loads occur, the
thickness of the footing shall be determined specifically for such conditions
or loads.
SOURCE: Proposed ANSI A-225 Standard on Manufactured Home Installations.
 
(Prior Code, § 16.08.430)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.046 PIERS.
   (A)   Pier construction.
      (1)   Piers shall be designed and constructed to distribute loads evenly.
Multiple-section homes may have concentrated roof loads which will require
special consideration. Load-bearing piers shall be constructed utilizing one of
the following methods:
         (a)   A prefabricated load-bearing device that is listed and labeled
for the intended use;
         (b)   A pier designed by a registered professional engineer or
architect;
         (c)   A pier constructed with concrete blocks conforming to ASTM 090,
laid with mortar joints or approved structural masonry adhesive. Blocks shall
not lie less than a nominal eight inches in width and 16 inches in length.
Mortar mix shall be Type S or one part portland cement, one-half part hydrated
lime and four parts sand by volume. Lime shall not be used with plastic or
water- proof cement;
         (d)   A pier constructed with non-mortared concrete blocks and a
separate anchoring system, conforming to the following criteria.
            1.   Concrete blocks are to be a nominal eight inches by eight
inches by 16 inches conforming to ASTM C-90 with open cells vertical, stacked
true and plumbed with a maximum horizontal block offset of one-half inch from
the top to the bottom of the pier. The maximum height of the pier shall be 36
inches unless designed by a professional engineer or architect.
            2.   Concrete block shall be stable and firm on the footing with
all bearing surfaces clean and smooth.
            3.   The maximum vertical load shall not exceed 6,400 pounds per
pier.
            4.   Non-mortared piers shall not carry any vertical uplift, moment
or horizontal load.
            5.   Tie-downs and anchors shall be designed to resist all uplift
loads not offset by two-thirds of the manufactured home dead load and all
horizontal loads.
            6.   The width of the main frame I-beam flange shall not be less
than two inches.
            7.   Concrete caps shall be the same size as the supporting
concrete block, and a minimum of four inches thick conforming to ASTM C-145,
and may be used with leveling spacers of steel or decay-resistant wood which
shall be level.
            8.   Pier footings shall be solid concrete bearing on firm
undisturbed soil or engineered fill and conforming to this division (G).
            9.   The top surface of the footing shall be smooth, clean and
level, providing a minimum of 50% direct bearing of concrete block on the top
surface of footing; if the top surface of the footing is not level or smooth, a
layer of mortar shall be applied to provide the proper bearing surface for the
concrete block pier.
      (2)   Caps and leveling spacers may be used for leveling of the
manufactured home. Spacing of piers shall be as specified in the manufacturer’s
installation instructions, if available or the table set out in this division
(G) may be used for the spacing of piers. Where unusual conditions or loads
exist, the spacing of piers and the load-bearing capacity of the soil shall be
determined specifically for such conditions or loads.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.440)
   (B)   Height of piers. Piers shall be constructed utilizing one of the
following methods.
      (1)   Piers 36 inches or less in height can be constructed of concrete
block, placed with open cells in vertical position. Single-stacked block piers
shall be installed with the long dimension at right angles to the main frame
member it supports. Piers shall be topped with a cap.
      (2)   Subject to the limitations of this chapter, piers between 36 inches
and 80 inches in height, and all corner piers over 24 inches high, shall be at
least 16 inches in width with blocks interlocked and fully capped with a
minimum four-inch solid concrete block or equivalent.
      (3)   Subject to other limitations of this standard, piers over 80 inches
in height can be constructed in accordance with the provisions of division (B)
(2) above; provided, the piers shall be filled solid with concrete and
reinforced with two continuous one-half inch diameter steel reinforcing bars
inserted vertically through the open cells of each 16-inch block.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.450)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.047 ANCHORING INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Ground anchors.
      (1)   Every ground anchor shall have specification data showing the soil
classifications for which it qualifies. Anchor selection shall be based on a
determination of the soil classification at the depth at which the anchor will
be installed.
      (2)   Ground anchors, including means for attaching ties, shall be
located to comply with anchoring system instructions provided by the
manufactured home manufacturer or, if there are no instructions, in accordance
with the requirements of this standard.
      (3)   Ground anchors shall be designed and installed to transfer the
anchoring loads to the ground. The load-carrying portion of the ground anchors
shall be installed to the full depth called for by the manufacturer’s
installation directions and shall extend below the established frost line into
undisturbed soil.
      (4)   Manufactured ground anchors shall be listed and installed in
accordance with the terms of their listing and the anchor manufacturer’s
instructions, and shall include means of attachment of this meeting the
requirements of divisions (G) and (H) below. Ground anchor manufacturer’s
instructions shall include the amount of pre-load required, the methods of
adjustment after installation, and the load capacity in various types of soil.
These instructions shall include tensioning adjustments which may be needed to
prevent damage to the manufactured home, particularly damage that can be caused
by frost heave. Each ground anchor shall be marked with the manufacturer’s
identification and listed model identification number which shall be visible
after installation. Instructions shall accompany each listed ground anchor
specifying the types of soil for which the anchor is suitable under the
requirements of this division (A).
      (5)   Each approved ground anchor, when installed, shall be capable of
resisting an allowable working load at least equal to 3,150 pounds in the
direction of the tie, plus a 50% overload (4,725 pounds) without failure.
Failure shall be considered to have occurred when the anchor moves more than
two inches at 4,725 pounds in the direction of the tie installation. Those
ground anchors which are designed to be installed so that loads on the anchor
are other than direct withdrawal shall be designed and installed to resist an
applied design load of 3,150 pounds at 40 to 50 degrees from vertical without
displacing the tie end of the anchor more than four inches horizontally.
Anchors designed for connection of multiple ties shall be capable of resisting
the combined working load and overload consistent with the intent expressed
herein.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.460)
   (B)   Anchoring equipment. Anchoring equipment, when installed as a
permanent installation, shall be capable of resisting all loads as specified
within this standard. When the stabilizing system is designed by a qualified
registered professional engineer or architect, alternative designs may be used
providing the anchoring equipment to be used is capable of withstanding a 50%
overload. All anchoring equipment shall be listed or labeled as being capable
of meeting the requirements of this standard. Anchors, as specified in the
Building Code, may be attached to the main frame of the manufactured home by an
approved three-sixteenths-inch-thick slotted steel plate anchoring device.
Other anchoring devices or methods meeting the requirements of this standard
shall be permitted when approved by the Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.470)
   (C)   Resistance to weather deterioration. All anchoring equipment exposed
to weathering shall have a resistance to weather deterioration at least
equivalent to that provided by a coating of zinc on steel of not less than
0.625 ounces per square foot on each side of the surface coated, as determined
by ASTM A-90-69. Slit or cut edges of zinc-coated steel strapping do not need
to be zinc coated.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.480)
   (D)   Permanency of connections. Anchoring systems shall be so installed as
to be permanent. Anchoring equipment shall be designed to prevent self-
disconnection with no hook ends used.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.490)
   (E)   Tensioning device design. Tensioning devices, such as turnbuckles or
yoke-type fasteners, shall be ended with clevis or forged or welded eyes.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.500)
   (F)   Footings. If footings are used to transfer the anchoring loads to the
ground, steel rods cast in concrete shall be capable of resisting design loads.
Deadman concrete anchors may be used in place of listed anchors if they meet
the requirements of this standard.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.510)
   (G)   Materials and installation. Steel strapping, cable, chain or other
approved materials shall be used for ties. All ties shall be fastened to ground
anchors and drawn tight with turnbuckles or other adjustable tensioning devices
or devices supplied with the ground anchor. The materials shall be capable of
resisting an allowable working load of 3,150 pounds, with no more than 2%
elongation and shall withstand a 50% overload (4,750 pounds). Ties shall comply
with the weathering requirements of division (C) above. Ties shall connect the
ground anchor and the main structural frame. Ties shall not connect to steel
outrigger beams which fasten to and intersect the main structural frame unless
specifically stated in the manufacturer’s installation instructions. Connection
of cable ties to main frame members shall be five-eighths-inch drop forged
closed eye bolts affixed to the frame member in an approved manner. Cable ends
shall be secured with at least three U-bolt type cable clamps with the “U”
portion of the clamp installed on the short (dead) end of the cable to assure
strength equal to that required by this division (H).
(Prior Code, § 16.08.520)
   (H)   Number of ties. Wood floor support systems shall be fixed to perimeter
foundation walls in accordance with provisions of the Building Code. The
minimum number of ties required per side shall be sufficient to resist the wind
load stated in the Building Code. Ties shall be as evenly spaced as practicable
along the length of the manufactured home with the distance from each end of
the home and the tie nearest that end not exceeding eight feet. When continuous
straps are provided as vertical ties, such ties shall be positioned at rafters
and studs. Where a vertical tie and diagonal tie are located at the same place,
both ties may be connected to a single anchor; provided that, the anchor used
is capable of carrying both loadings. Multi-section manufactured homes require
diagonal ties only. Diagonal ties shall be installed on the exterior main frame
and slope to the exterior at an angle of 40 to 50 degrees from the vertical.
Non-continuous vertical ties shall be placed at the main frame. If sufficient
to meet the wind loads as provided in the Building Code, the minimum number of
ties per side of the manufactured home shall be shown in the table that
follows:
Number of Ties Required Per Side of a Manufactured Home
Length of Manufactured Home in Number of Vertical Ties Number of Diagonal Ties
Feet
Number of Ties Required Per Side of a Manufactured Home
Length of Manufactured Home in Number of Vertical Ties Number of Diagonal Ties
Feet
Up to 40                       2                       3
40 to 46                       2                       3
46 to 49                       2                       3
49 to 54                       2                       3
54 to 58                       2                       4
58 to 64                       2                       4
64 to 70                       2                       4
70 to 73                       2                       4
73 to 84                       2                       5
Notes to Table:
Source: Proposed ANSI A225 Standard on Manufactured Home Installations.
 
(Prior Code, § 16.08.530)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.048 PERIMETER ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   Materials. Skirting shall be of materials suitable for exterior
exposure and contact with the ground. If skirting is not used, then materials
used as a permanent perimeter enclosure shall be as for regular foundation
construction as required by the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.540)
   (B)   Skirting installation.
      (1)   If used, skirting shall be installed in accordance with the
manufacturer’s installation instructions.
      (2)   It shall be adequately secured to assure stability, to minimize
vibrations and susceptibility to wind damage, and to compensate for possible
frost heave.
      (3)   The entire underfloor area of the home shall be completely enclosed
by a perimeter enclosure, except for the required openings.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.550)
   (C)   Permanent perimeter enclosure installation.
      (1)   Retaining walls, if used as permanent perimeter enclosures, shall
resist the lateral displacement of soil or other materials and shall conform to
the Building Code, as specified for foundation walls.
      (2)   Unless a retaining wall is equivalent to a load-bearing foundation,
it should not be attached to the manufactured home. Retaining walls and
foundation walls should be constructed of treated foundation grade wood,
concrete, masonry or other approved materials or combinations of these
materials, as for foundations as specified in the Building Code.
      (3)   When retaining walls or foundation walls are used as a load-bearing
foundation, the manufactured home shall be anchored to the wall. The entire
underfloor area of the home shall be completely enclosed, except for required
openings. Siding material shall extend below the top of the exterior of the
retaining or foundation wall.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.560)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.049 UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Utility connections shall be made to assure that utility systems
permit satisfactory functioning and provide for health and safety under all
conditions of normal use.
      (2)   Manufactured home utility services shall only be connected to the
supply source by means of approved materials.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.570)
   (B)   Federal manufactured home connections.
      (1)   A manufactured home which bears a certification label certifying
that it is constructed in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards shall be connected to the utilities as
required by the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, §
503, and the following.
         (a)   The gas piping supply system shall be designed for a pressure
not exceeding 14-inch water column (one-half inch psi).
         (b)   When a manufactured home is to be installed in an area where the
water pressure exceeds 80 psi, a pressure-reducing valve should be installed.
         (c)   The installation of a self-contained air-conditioner comfort
cooling appliance shall meet the following requirements.
            1.   The installation on a duct common with an installed heating
appliance shall require the installation of an automatic damper or other means
to prevent the cooled air from passing through the heating appliance unless the
heating appliance is certified or listed for such application and the supply
system is intended for such an application.
            2.   The installation shall prevent the flow of heated air into the
external cooling appliance and its connecting ducts to the manufactured home
supply and return air system during the operation of the heating appliance
installed in the manufactured home, and the installation shall prevent
simultaneous operation of the heating and cooling appliances.
         (d)   The power supply to the manufactured home shall be a permanently
installed circuit, Where a permanent feeder is used, the supply shall be by
means of:
            1.   One mast weatherhead installation installed in accordance with
the Electrical Code and containing four continuous insulated, color-coded,
feeder conductors, one of which shall be an equipment grounding conductor; or
            2.   An approved raceway from the disconnecting means in the
manufactured home with provisions for the attachment of a suitable junction box
or fitting to the raceway on the underside of the manufactured home. The
manufacturer shall provide in his or her written installation instructions, the
proper feeder conductor sizes for the raceway and the size of the junction box
to be used.
      (2)   Where there is a conflict in the above requirements, the Federal
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.580)
   (C)   Non-federal manufactured home connections. All manufactured homes
bearing a certification label certifying that they are built in compliance with
the Building Code shall be connected to the utilities as follows.
      (1)   Water supply shall be as required by the Plumbing Code.
      (2)   Drainage waste system shall be as required by the Plumbing Code.
      (3)   Electrical connections shall be as required by the Electrical Code.
      (4)   Gas supply connections shall be as required by the National Fuel
Gas Code NFPA 54 or the Standard for the Storage and Handling of Liquified
Petroleum Gasses NFPA 58.
      (5)   Oil supply connections shall be as required by the Installation of
Oil Burning Equipment, NFPA 31.
      (6)   Mechanical equipment and accessories shall be listed and labeled
for the use intended and shall be connected as required by the Mechanical Code.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.590)
   (D)   Inspections. Inspections of manufactured home utility connections
shall be as per §
153.067 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.600)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
**** TYPES III AND IV MANUFACTURED HOMES AND
MOBILE HOME INSTALLATION STANDARDS ****
§ 153.060 CLEARANCE.
   Clearance under homes shall be as per §
153.025(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.610) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.061 UNDERFLOOR AREAS; ACCESS AND VENTILATION.
   Access to and ventilation under floor areas shall be as per §
153.025(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.620) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.062 PIER CONSTRUCTION; HEIGHT.
   (A)   Pier construction shall be as per §
153.046(A) of this chapter of the permanent installation standard.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.630)
   (B)   Height of piers shall be as per §
153.046(B) of this chapter of the permanent installation standard.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.640)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -; Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.063 ANCHORING INSTALLATIONS.
   Anchoring installations shall be as per §
153.047(A) through (F) of this chapter of the permanent installation standard.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.650) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.064 TIES.
   Ties shall be as per §
153.047(G) and (H) of this chapter of the permanent installation standard.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.660) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.065 SKIRTING INSTALLATION.
   Skirting installation shall be as per §
153.048 of this chapter of the permanent installation standard, as set out in §
153.025(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.670) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.066 UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   Utility connections shall be as per §
153.049(A), (B) and (C) of this chapter of the permanent installation standard.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.680) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
§ 153.067 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All utility connections shall be inspected and approved before the
home is occupied.
   (B)   All sewer and drainage lines shall be filled with water and be capable
of holding water for 15 minutes (filled to maximum height without overflowing
into the home).
   (C)   All water lines shall be capable of holding water at pressure of 80
pounds and to be tested with water and air for 15 minutes.
   (D)   All gas lines shall be capable of holding 20 pounds air pressure for
15 minutes.
   (E)   All material used for utility connections from the home to source
shall meet all local Electrical and Plumbing Codes.
   (F)   No utility company shall render service to a Type III, Type IV or
mobile home without prior approval of the city.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.690) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 2783, passed - -;
Ord. 2906, passed - -1985)
**** MOBILE HOME PARKS ****
§ 153.080 PERMIT; ISSUANCE AND CONDITIONS.
   Construction of a mobile home park within the city shall begin only after a
special use permit has been granted by the City Commission, in compliance with
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances. No such permit shall be granted,
however, until a development plan for the proposed mobile home park has been
prepared and submitted by the developer to the Planning Commission and found
satisfactory by said Commission, and further submitted to the City Commission
with a recommendation for approval.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.010) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.081 PLAN; CONTENT; RECOMMENDATIONS AND CRITERIA; SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   The plan required in §
153.080 of this chapter shall be accurately drawn, at a scale acceptable to the
city’s Code Enforcement Officer, and shall show the following:
      (1)   Proposed street and drive pattern;
      (2)   Proposed mobile home spaces and their approximate dimensions;
      (3)   Any existing streets in or abutting the property;
      (4)   Location and size of parking spaces;
      (5)   Location and size of park and playground area;
      (6)   Screening and landscaping;
      (7)   Legal description of the tract;
      (8)   Name of the developer and the firm preparing the plan; and
      (9)   North point, scale and date.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.020)
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall, upon submission of three copies of the
plan and an application for a special use permit, publish notice and hold a
hearing on the proposal, in conformance with Chapter 158 of this code of
ordinances. The decision of the Commission to recommend approval or denial of
the proposed mobile home park shall be based upon the following criteria.
      (1)   The proposed property will be in harmony, in general, with the
comprehensive plan of the city.
      (2)   Safe and efficient ingress and egress of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic and an adequate level of utility and other services is assured.
      (3)   A safe and healthful living environment will exist for the
occupants of the park.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.030)
   (C)   Upon hearing and consideration of the project, the Commission shall,
within reasonable time, submit its recommendation and an endorsed copy of the
plan to the Board of Commissioners for final action.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.040)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.082 PERMIT; EXPIRATION AND REAPPLICATION.
   After 24 months from the date of approval of a special use permit by the
City Commission, if the mobile home park is not improved in accordance with the
plans to the extent that utilities, surfaced drives and occupied mobile home
spaces exist over at least 20% of the area of the approved park, the special
use permit shall expire and further development and additional occupancy of the
park shall be prohibited. All mobile homes shall be removed within six months
of the date of expiration of a special use permit. The owner or his or her
agent may apply for a new special use permit in the case of expiration or
cancellation under procedures set out in
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.050) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.083 MINIMUM SIZE.
   No mobile home park shall have a site smaller than will accommodate 18
mobile homes or comprising less than three acres.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.060) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.084 MINIMUM SPACE SIZE; DENSITY.
   Each mobile home space shall have dimensions of at least 45 feet in width
and 90 feet in depth. The accepted density for mobile home parks shall be six
mobile homes per acre, with the maximum density being eight mobile homes per
acre.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.070) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.085 STAND AND SKIRT REQUIREMENTS.
   Each mobile home space shall contain a portland cement or asphaltic concrete
stand upon which the mobile home will be situated. Each home shall be equipped
with skirts on all sides, such skirts to be of material harmonious to the
mobile home structure.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.080) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.086 STREET AND DRIVE REQUIREMENTS.
   All public streets within the park shall be improved to city standards for
residential streets. All private drives shall be surfaced with at least six
inches of compact stone base, with two inches of hot mix bituminous concrete as
the surface course.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.090) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.087 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   At least two parking spaces for each mobile home shall be provided within 60
feet of the mobile home. Such parking spaces shall be off the public street or
private drive, and each shall be not less than nine feet by 20 feet in size,
and shall be surfaced to at least the standard set out in §
153.086 of this chapter for drives.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.100) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.088 PARK AND PLAYGROUND SPACE.
   Park and playground space shall be provided for occupants of the mobile home
park on the basis of 300 square feet for each space in the park. Such
playground space shall be separate and aside from the open space provided on
each mobile home space, and shall be equipped and maintained for the use of the
residents of the park.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.110) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.089 OPEN SPACE.
   Each mobile home shall be located on the mobile home space so that no part
of one mobile home structure, including canopies, awnings, carports and other
protrusions, is closer than 12 feet to another mobile home, or to the edge of
the surface of a drive. No mobile home shall be located closer than 30 feet to
the boundary line of the mobile home park or to a public street.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.120) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.090 UTILITIES.
   All liquid waste shall be disposed of through a sanitary sewer system and
treatment facility, the plans of which shall be approved by the Code
Enforcement Officer prior to construction. All solid wastes shall be disposed
of by accumulation in tight containers, and removed at regular intervals by
methods to be approved by the Code Enforcement Officer. All power and telephone
lines shall be underground, and shall be in compliance with standards of the
utility corporation involved. All water supply and distribution shall be
approved by the Code Enforcement Officer prior to construction. The site of the
park shall be graded so that surface water will not accumulate, but will run
off in a manner that will not adversely affect the residential character of the
park or adjacent property. The proposed drainage system shall be approved by
the Code Enforcement Officer prior to construction of streets or other portions
of the park.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.130) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.091 LICENSE; FEE.
   All mobile home parks shall be subject to an annual license fee, which may
be issued by the Board of Commissioners. Compliance with this chapter and all
other codes and ordinances of the city shall be necessary prior to the issuance
or renewal of said license. A license fee of $100 shall be paid by the owner of
the mobile home park upon establishing the park, and the annual renewal of the
license shall be in the amount of $10 for each space occupied on the date of
expiration of the previous license.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.140) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.092 APPEARANCE AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Each mobile home park or subdivision shall be operated in a sanitary,
orderly and efficient manner, and shall maintain a neat appearance at all
times. No damaged or deteriorated mobile homes shall be permitted to remain,
and suitable and effective rules for regulating the outside storage of
equipment, the removal of wheels and installation of skirting, the collection
of trash and garbage and the attachment of appurtenances to the mobile homes
shall be continually enforced. A map shall be placed at the main entrance to
the park clearly showing the location of each space and the name and address of
the occupant. Such map shall be illuminated at all times, and be enclosed in a
weather-proof case, within full view of persons entering the park. All drives,
playground area and equipment, lawn and trees, and any recreation or accessory
buildings, shall be maintained at a level at least equal to the average
residential neighborhood in the city.
   (B)   All portions of the mobile home park shall be open and accessible to
fire, police and other emergency and protective vehicles and personnel,
including city, county and state inspectors.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.150) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.093 LICENSE AND PERMIT CANCELLATION; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner and/or operator of the mobile home park shall be responsible for
the conformance to all plans, codes and ordinances and any conditions set out
in the special use permit, and any deviation or non-performance, or the
occurrence of any nuisance or unhealthful or unsanitary condition, or the
termination of a park operation for one year or more shall constitute grounds
for the cancellation of a license or special use permit, or refusal to renew a
license on the part of the Board of Commissioners. In addition, the city shall
have all remedial and corrective powers conveyed by statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.160) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
**** MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS ****
§ 153.105 PERMITTED UNDER SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A subdivision for the purpose of selling individual lots in fee for the
purpose of mobile home sites may be permitted under the subdivision ordinance
of the city. Only double-wide or larger mobile homes or modular homes, or
customary single-family dwellings shall be permitted in a mobile home
subdivision. Such structures shall be located in compliance with the yard and
lot area requirements of the R-1 District, and shall be attached to a permanent
concrete foundation or slab. Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in
compliance with
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 16.28.010) (Ord. 2458, passed - -1971)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision(s) of §
153.005 of this chapter shall be subjected to the penalties prescribed in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 16.16.010)
(Ord. 2458, passed - -1971; Ord. 3094, passed - -1994)
CHAPTER 154: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fire Zones
   
154.001   Fire Zone No. 1
   
154.002   Fire Zone No. 2
Fire Prevention Code
   
154.015   Adoption
   
154.016   Fireworks discharge
   
154.017   Definitions
   
154.018   Bonfires and rubbish fires
   
154.019   Bureau of Fire Prevention
   
154.020   Storage of explosives and blasting agents prohibited; exception
   
154.021   Storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks prohibited
   
154.022   Bulk storage of liquified petroleum gas prohibited
   
154.023   Transportation of explosives and blasting agents; vehicle routes
   
154.024   Transportation of hazardous chemicals or dangerous articles; vehicle
routes
   
154.025   Fire lanes established
   
154.026   Modification; procedure
   
154.027   Right of appeal; time limit
   
154.028   Permit; when required; list; posting
Fire and Explosion Damaged Structures
   
154.040   Regulation established; insurance company requirements
   
154.041   Fire Insurance Proceeds Fund
   
154.042   Procedure upon receipt of insurance proceeds
   
154.043   Payment of excess proceeds
   
154.044   Payments made from fund; lien
   
154.045   City Clerk to notify Insurance Commissioner
   
154.046   Application
 
   
154.999   Penalty
**** FIRE ZONES ****
§ 154.001 FIRE ZONE NO. 1.
   Fire Zone No. 1 is as follows: beginning at the northwest corner of Seventh
and Judson Street, thence north along the west right-of-way line of Judson
Street to the northwest corner of Fourth and Judson Street, thence west along
the north right-of-way line of Fourth Street to the northwest corner of Fourth
Street and Crawford Street, thence north along the west right-of-way line of
Crawford Street to a point on the north right-of-way line of the Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railroad where the west right-of-way line extended intersects
with the north right-of-way line of the Missouri, Kansas, Texas Railroad thence
west along the north right-of-way line of the Missouri, Kansas, Texas Railroad
intersects with the west city limits boundary, thence north along the west city
limits boundary to the centerline of Mill Creek thence in a northeasterly
direction along the centerline of Mill Creek to a point where the north line of
Block 3, Bell’s Addition extended intersects with the centerline of Mill Creek,
thence, east along the north line of Block 3, Bell’s Addition to the west
right-of-way line of Crawford Street, thence southeasterly to the southwest
corner of Crawford Street and Linker Street, thence east along the south right-
of-way line of Linker Street to the east right-of-way line of National Avenue,
thence north along the east right-of-way line of National Avenue to the
southeast corner of Lot 14, Block 6, Pratel’s Addition, thence east along the
south line of Lot 14, Block 6, Pratel’s Addition thence east along the south
lot line of Lots 16, 17, 18, 19, Pratel’s Addition, to the west right-of-way
line of Sand Street, thence east to the southwest corner, Block 7, Pratel’s
Addition, thence east along the south line of Block 7, Pratel’s Addition to the
southeast corner Block 7, Pratel’s Addition, thence east to the northeast
corner, Block 9, Original Town, thence east along the north line of the
Original Town, also being the north city limit boundaries, to a point where the
north line of Original Town intersects with the west right-of-way line of the
St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad, thence northeasterly along the west
right-of-way of said railroad also being city limits boundary, to a point where
the south right-of-way of Parkinson’s Street extended intersects with the west
right-of-way line of the St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad thence east along
the south right-of-way line to the southwest corner of Parkinson’s Street and
Walburn Street, thence south along the west right-of-way line of Walburn Street
to the centerline of Missouri, Kansas, Texas Railroad, thence southeasterly
along the west right-of-way line of Franklin Street, thence south along the
west right-of-way line of Franklin Street, thence southwesterly along the west
right-of-way line of Franklin Street to the northwest corner of Franklin and
Walnut Street, thence south along the west right-of-way line of Franklin Street
to the northwest corner of Franklin Street and Mulberry Street, thence west,
along the north right-of-way line of Mulberry Street to the northwest corner of
Mulberry and Ivy Street, thence south along the west right-of-way line of Ivy
Street to the northwest corner of Ivy Street and Elm Street thence
southwesterly to the southwest corner of Elm Street and Caldwell Street, thence
south along the west right-of-way line of Caldwell to the northwest corner of
Caldwell Street and Pine Street, thence west along the north right-of-way line
of Pine Street to the east right-of-way line of the alley between Little Street
and Barbee Street, thence south along the east right-of-way line of the alley
to the southwest corner, Lot 6, Block 77, Original Town, said point being 150
feet south of the south right-of-way line of Oak Street, thence along a line
150 feet south and parallel to Oak Street to the northwest corner, Lot 15,
Block 3, subdivision of Cameron’s subdivided, Block 5, thence south along the
west right-of-way line of Brown Street to the northeast corner of Lot 14, Block
8, Cameron’s Addition, thence southeasterly along the south right-of-way line
of U.S. Highway 54 to a point where the north alley line of Lot 2 intersects
with the south right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 54 intersects with the north
alley line, Block 2, Cameron’s Addition, thence west along the north alley
right-of-way line to the southwest corner, Lot 1, Block 7, Cameron’s Addition,
thence northwesterly to the southwest corner, Lot 8, Block 21, Wilber’s
Addition, thence west along the north right-of-way line of the alley to the
west alley line in Block 79, Original Town, thence south to the southeast
corner, Lot 5, Block 79, Original Town, thence west along a line 150 feet south
and parallel to the south right-of-way line of Wall Street to the southwest
corner, Lot 5, Block 81, Original Town, thence south to the southwest corner,
Block 81, Original Town, thence west along the north right-of-way line of First
Street to the northeast corner of First Street and Hill Street, thence south
along the east right-of-way line of Hill Street to the northeast corner of
Third Street and Hill Street, thence west along the north right-of-way line of
Third Street to a point where the north right-of-way line of Third Street and
the centerline of the St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad intersects, thence
southwesterly along the centerline of the St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad
to a point where the north right-of-way line of Sixth Street intersects the
centerline of the St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad thence, west along the
north right-of-way line of the Sixth Street to the southwest corner of Lot 12,
Block 170, Original Town, thence south along the east alley line to the
southwest corner of Lot 12, Block 191, Original Town, thence west along the
north right-of-way line of Seventh Street to the northwest corner of Seventh
Street and Judson Street, said point also being the point of beginning,
excluding all of Blocks 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8.
(Prior Code, § 15.36.010) (Ord. 2754, passed - -1980)
§ 154.002 FIRE ZONE NO. 2.
   Beginning at the northwest corner of Fifteenth Street and Judson Street
thence south along the west right-of-way line of Judson Street to the south
right-of-way of Eighteenth Street, thence west along the south right-of-way
line of Eighteenth Street to the southeast corner of Eighteenth Street and
Horton Street, thence westerly along a line 25 feet south and parallel to the
north section line, Section 6, T 26 S, R 25 E, a distance of 2,976.99 feet to a
point on the west section line of Section 6, said point being 25 feet south of
the northwest corner, Section 6, T 26 S, R 25 E, thence south along the west
section line, Section 6, a distance of 1,872.89 feet, thence east along a line
and parallel to the north section line of Section 6 a distance of 2,976.99 feet
to the east right-of-way line of Horton Street, thence south along the east
right-of-way line of Horton Street to the southwest corner of Horton Street and
Twenty-third Street, thence east along the south right-of-way line of Twenty-
Third Street to the northwest corner, Lot 24, Block 3, Adams Addition, thence
south along the west lot line of Lot 24, Block 3, Adams Addition to the city
limits boundary, thence east along the city limits boundary to the east right-
of-way line of U.S. Highway 69, thence southerly along the east right-of-way
line of U.S. Highway 69, also being city limit boundaries, a distance of
1,100.00 feet, then easterly along the city limits boundary a distance of
1,462.94 feet to the west right-of-way line of the St. Louis and San Francisco
Railroad, thence north along the west right-of-way line of the St. Louis and
San Francisco Railroad also being the city limits boundary a distance of
1,100.00 feet, thence east along the city limits boundary to the west right-of-
way line of Gunn Avenue, thence north along the west right-of-way of Gunn
Avenue to the southwest corner of Gunn Avenue and Eighteenth Street, thence
west along the south right-of-way line of Eighteenth Street to the southeast
corner of Eighteenth and Fairground Avenue, thence north along the east right-
of-way line of Fairground Avenue to the north right-of-way line of East
National Avenue, thence east along the north right-of-way line of East National
to the northwest corner of East National and Scott Avenue, thence north along
the west right-of-way line of Scott Avenue to the north right-of-way of
Fifteenth Street, thence west along the north right-of-way of Fifteenth Street
to the west right-of-way line of National Avenue, thence north along the west
right-of-way line of National Avenue to the northeast corner, Lot 3, Block 1,
National Avenue Subdivision, thence west along the north lot line of Lot 3 to
the northwest corner of Fifteenth and Judson Street, also being the point of
beginning.
(Prior Code, § 15.36.020) (Ord. 2754, passed - -1980)
**** FIRE PREVENTION CODE ****
§ 154.015 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The following documents, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk, marked and designated as “2012 International Code
Council Fire Code” are adopted as codes of the city.
   (B)   Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of said codes on file in the office of the City Clerk are referred to,
adopted and made a part of this section as if fully set out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.010) (Ord. 2495, passed - -1972; Ord. 3116, passed - -
1995; Ord. 3144, passed - -1997; Ord. 3339, passed - -2008; Ord. 3505, passed
5-16-2017)
§ 154.016 FIREWORKS DISCHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   It is, therefore, adopted that inside the city limits, only
Class C (common) fireworks are permitted to be discharged within the city
limits without a special events permit. Class C fireworks are permitted to be
sold June 20 to July 7 and discharged June 27 to July 2 from the hours of 10:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m.; July 3 and July 4 from the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 11:59
p.m.; and on July 5 from the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      (2)   It is illegal to discharge or ignite fireworks in these
circumstances:
         (a)   Within 1,000 feet of a hospital;
         (b)   Within 50 feet of a location where fireworks are sold;
         (c)   Within 100 feet from any gas pump, filling station or bulk fuel
storage facility;
         (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, cast or propel
fireworks of any kind in the direction of or into the path of any person or
group of persons, or from, in the direction of or into any vehicle of any kind;
         (e)   Bottle rockets. BOTTLE ROCKET means any pyrotechnical device
which is mounted on a stick or wire, and projects into the air when ignited,
with or without reports, and include any device with the same configuration,
with or without reports, which may be classified as a pipe or trough rocket;
         (f)   Any community college campus or surrounding grounds;
         (g)   Bourbon County Fairgrounds;
         (h)   Any city-owned parks; and/or
         (i)   No discharging of fireworks from 18th and Horton to 23rd and
Horton during the time of the city’s fireworks display.
   (B)   The City Manager or the Fire Chief or his or her designated person has
the authority to alter the dates of this section due to severe dry weather
conditions, or any other special circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.025) (Ord. 3585, passed 6-22-2021; Ord. 3602, passed 2-15-
2022; Ord. 3781, passed 6-17-2025) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.017 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Where the term “corporation counsel” is used in the Fire Prevention
Code, it means the City Attorney for the city.
   (B)   Whenever the word “municipality” is used in the Fire Prevention Code,
it means the City of Fort Scott, Kansas.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.020) (Ord. 2495, passed - -1972)
§ 154.018 BONFIRES AND RUBBISH FIRES.
   Subsection 28.1(b) of Section 15.020.030, Fire Prevention Code, of the Fort
Scott Municipal Code shall be amended to read as follows: bonfires or rubbish
fires:
   Section 28.1(b). Location Restricted.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any bon fire or rubbish fire or authorize
any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any private land unless:
      1. The location is more than 50 feet from any structure and adequate
provision is made to prevent fire from spreading to within 50 feet of any
structure, or
      2. The fire is contained in an approved waste burner located safely and
not less than 25 feet from any structure.
   In all instances, a written permit must be obtained from the Fort Scott Fire
Department before any burning is allowed.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.030) (Ord. 2605, passed - -1976; Ord. 3438, passed 5-6-
2014)
§ 154.019 BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Code shall be enforced by the Bureau of Fire
Prevention in the Fire Department of the city, which is established and which
shall be operated under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief in charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be
appointed by the governing body of the city on the basis of examination to
determine his or her qualifications.
      (2)   His or her appointment shall continue during good behavior and
satisfactory service, and he or she shall not be removed from office, except
for cause after public trial.
   (C)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail such members of the
Fire Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary.
      (2)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall recommend to the governing
body of the city the employment of technical inspectors, who, when such
authorization is made, shall be selected through an examination to determine
their fitness for the position.
      (3)   The examination shall be open to members and non-members of the
Fire Department, and appointments made after examination shall be for an
indefinite term, with removal only for cause.
   (D)   (1)   A report of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be made annually
and transmitted to the Chief executive officer of the municipality.
      (2)   It shall contain all proceedings under the Fire Prevention Code,
with such statistics as the Chief of the Fire Department may wish to include
therein.
      (3)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall also recommend any
amendments to the code which, in his or her judgment, are desirable.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.040) (Ord. 2495, passed - -1972)
§ 154.020 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   The limits referred to in § 12.5b of the Fire Prevention Code, in which
storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, are established as
follows: at all places within the limits of the city, except within the
specially constructed magazine located at 15 Stanton Street, Fort Scott,
Kansas.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.050) (Ord. 2495, passed - -1972)
§ 154.021 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND TANKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The limits referred to in § 16.22a of the Fire Prevention Code, in
which storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited,
are established as all places within the limits of the city, except the
following: beginning at the south right-of-way line of the St. Louis and San
Francisco Railroad tracks, thence south on the west right-of-way line of North
Judson Street to the north right-of-way line of West Pine Street, west on Pine
Street to the east right-of-way line of North Crawford Street north said right-
of-way line to the said St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad tracks, thence
east on the south right-of-way line of the said tracks to the place of
beginning; beginning at the south right-of-way line of West Wall Street, thence
south on the west right-of-way line of South National Avenue to the north
right-of-way fine of West First Street, thence west on said right-of-way line
to the east right-of-way line of North Judson Street, thence north on said
right-of-way line to the south right-of-way line of West Wall Street, thence
east on said right-of-way line to the place of beginning; beginning on the
south right-of-way line of the St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad tracks,
thence south and southwesterly on the west right-of-way line of North Hill
Street to the north right-of-way line of East Oak Street, thence west on the
said right-of-way line to the east right-of-way line of North Wilson Street,
thence north on said right-of-way line to the south right-of-way line of the
said railroad tracks, thence east on the said right-of-way line of the said
railroad tracks to the point of beginning; beginning at the south right-of-way
line of East Third Street, thence south on the west right-of-way line of South
Margrave Street to the north right-of-way line of East Fourth Street, thence
west on said right-of-way line to the east right-of-way line of North Hill
Street, thence north on the said right-of-way line to the south right-of-way
line of East Third Street, thence east on said right-of-way line to the place
of beginning.
   (B)   The limits referred to in § 16.61 of the Fire Prevention Code, in
which new bulk plants for flammable or combustible liquids are prohibited, are
established as the same as those found in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.060) (Ord. 2495, passed - -1972) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.022 BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PROHIBITED.
   The limits referred to in § 21.6a of the Fire Prevention Code, in which bulk
storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, are established as follows:
the bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas in the city limits of the city is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.070) (Ord. 2495, passed - -1972) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.023 TRANSPORTATION OF EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS; VEHICLE ROUTES.
   The routes referred to in § 12.7m of the Fire Prevention Code for vehicles
transporting explosives and blasting agents are established as follows: all
vehicles proceeding through the city in a northerly or southerly direction must
follow the U.S. Highway 69 bypass; all vehicles proceeding through the city in
an easterly or westerly direction must follow U.S. Highway 54.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.080) (Ord. 2495, passed - -1972) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.024 TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS OR DANGEROUS ARTICLES; VEHICLE
ROUTES.
   The routes referred to in § 20.14 of the Fire Prevention Code, for vehicles
transporting hazardous chemicals and other dangerous articles, are established
as follows: all vehicles proceeding through the city in a northerly or
southerly direction must follow the U.S. Highway 69 bypass; all vehicles
proceeding through the city in an easterly or westerly direction must follow
U.S. 54.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.090) (Ord. 2495, passed - -1972)
§ 154.025 FIRE LANES ESTABLISHED.
   The fire lanes referred to in § 28.16 of the Fire Prevention Code are
established as follows: beginning at the northeast corner of the Fort Scott
Senior High School Building, thence east to the west right-of-way line of Scott
Avenue, thence south on the said right-of-way line a distance of 150 feet,
thence west to the said Fort Scott Senior High School Building, thence north
along the east wall of the said Fort Scott Senior High School building to the
place of beginning.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.100) (Ord. 2495, passed - -1972)
§ 154.026 MODIFICATION; PROCEDURE.
   The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall have power to modify any of
the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code upon application, in writing, by the
owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, carrying out the strict
letter of the code; provided that, the spirit of the code shall be observed,
public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of such
modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Chief of the
Bureau of Fire Prevention thereon shall be entered upon the records of the
Department, and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.110) (Ord. 2495, passed - -1972)
§ 154.027 RIGHT OF APPEAL; TIME LIMIT.
   Whenever the Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall disapprove an
application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that
the provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of
the code has been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal
from the decision of the Chief of the Bureau of the Fire Prevention to the
governing body of the city within 30 days from the date of the decision
appealed.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.120) (Ord. 2495, passed - -1972)
§ 154.028 PERMIT; WHEN REQUIRED; LIST; POSTING.
   The governing body of the city, the Chief of the Fire Department and the
Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall act as a committee to determine
and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new
materials, processes or occupancies which shall require permits, in addition to
those now enumerated in the code. The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention
shall post such list in a conspicuous place in his or her office and distribute
copies thereof to interested persons.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.130) (Ord. 2495, passed - -1972)
**** FIRE AND EXPLOSION DAMAGED STRUCTURES ****
§ 154.040 REGULATION ESTABLISHED; INSURANCE COMPANY REQUIREMENTS.
   The city is authorized to utilize the procedures established by K.S.A. 40-
3901 et seq., whereby no insurance company shall pay a claim of a named insured
for loss or damage to any building or other structure located within the city,
arising out of any fire, explosion or windstorm where the amount recoverable
for the loss or damage to the building or other structure, under all policies,
is in excess of 75% of the face value of the policy covering such building or
other insured structure, unless there is compliance with the following
procedures.
   (A)   When final settlement on a covered claim has been agreed to or arrived
at between the named insured or insureds and the company or companies, and such
final settlement exceeds 75% of the face value of the policy covering any
building or other insured structure, and when all amounts due the holder of a
first real estate mortgage against the building or other structure, pursuant to
the terms of the policy and endorsement thereto, shall have been paid, the
insurance company or companies shall execute a draft payable to the City Clerk,
in an amount equal to 15% of the proceeds of the covered claim payment, unless
the Codes Enforcement Officer of the city has issued a certificate to the
insurance company or companies that the insured has removed the damaged
building or other structure, as well as all associated debris, or repaired,
rebuilt or otherwise made the premises safe and secure.
   (B)   Such transfer of funds shall be on a pro rata basis by all companies
insuring the building or other structure. Policy proceeds remaining after the
transfer to the city shall be disbursed in accordance with the policy terms.
   (C)   Upon the transfer of the funds as required by division (A) above, the
insurance company shall provide the city with the name and address of the named
insured or insureds, the total insurance coverage applicable to said building
or other structure, and the amount of the final settlement agreed to or arrived
at between the insurance company or companies and the insured or insureds,
whereupon the city’s Codes Officer shall contact the named insured or insureds
by certified mail notifying them that said insurance proceeds have been
received by the city and apprise them of the procedures to be followed under
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15.22.010) (Ord. 2989, passed - -1989; Ord. 3157, passed - -
1998)
§ 154.041 FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND.
   The City Treasurer is authorized and shall create a fund to be known as the
“Insurance Proceeds Fund”. All moneys received by the city, as provided for by
this chapter, shall be placed in such fund and deposited in an interest-bearing
account.
(Prior Code, § 15.22.020) (Ord. 2989, passed - -1989; Ord. 3157, passed - -
1998)
§ 154.042 PROCEDURE UPON RECEIPT OF INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
   (A)   Within 20 days of the receipt of said moneys, the Codes Enforcement
Officer of the city shall determine, after prior investigation, whether the
city shall instigate proceedings under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1750 et
seq., as amended.
   (B)   If the city has determined that proceedings under K.S.A. 12-1750 et
seq., shall be initiated, it will do so immediately, but no later than 30 days
after receipt of said moneys by the city.
   (C)   Upon notification to the City Treasurer by the city’s Codes
Enforcement Officer that no proceedings shall be initiated under K.S.A. 12-1750
et seq., as amended, the city shall return all such moneys received, plus
accrued interest, to the insured or insureds as identified in the communication
from the insurance company or companies. Such return shall be accomplished
within 30 days of the receipt of said moneys from the insurance company or
companies.
(Prior Code, § 15.22.030) (Ord. 2989, passed - -1989)
§ 154.043 PAYMENT OF EXCESS PROCEEDS.
   If the city has proceeded under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended, all moneys in excess of that which is ultimately necessary to comply
with said provisions for the removal of the building or structure, less salvage
value, if any, shall be paid to the insured.
(Prior Code, § 15.22.040) (Ord. 2989, passed - -1989)
§ 154.044 PAYMENTS MADE FROM FUND; LIEN.
   (A)   If the city determines with regard to a building or other structure
damaged by fire, explosion or windstorm, that it is necessary to act under
K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as amended, any proceeds received by the city under
authority of §
154.040(A) of this chapter relating to that building or other structure shall
be used to reimburse the city for any expenses incurred by the city in
proceeding under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   Upon reimbursement from the insurance proceeds, the city shall
immediately effect the release of the lien resulting therefrom.
   (C)   Should the expenses incurred by the city exceed the insurance proceeds
paid over to the city under §
154.040(A) of this chapter, the city shall establish a new lien as authorized
by K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as amended, in an amount equal to such excess
expenses incurred.
(Prior Code, § 15.22.050) (Ord. 2989, passed - -1989; Ord. 3157, passed - -
1998)
§ 154.045 CITY CLERK TO NOTIFY INSURANCE COMMISSIONER.
   The City Clerk is authorized and shall notify the Commissioner of Insurance
of the state within 14 days of the adoption of the ordinance codified in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15.22.060) (Ord. 2989, passed - -1989; Ord. 3157, passed - -
1998)
§ 154.046 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to fire, explosion or windstorm damage to
buildings or other structures.
(Prior Code, § 15.22.070) (Ord. 2989, passed - -1989; Ord. 3157, passed - -
1998)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the code
adopted in §§
154.015 through
154.028 of this chapter or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails
to comply with any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder
or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has
been taken, or who fails to by the governing body of the city or by a court of
competent jurisdiction within the time fixed in §§
154.015 through
154.028 of this chapter, shall severally for each and every such violation and
non-compliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time. When not otherwise specified, each ten days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
         (b)   The application of the penalty in division (B)(1) above shall
not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.140)
      (2)   Violation of §
154.016 of this chapter is punishable under §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.025)
(Ord. 2495, passed - -1972; Ord. 3585, passed 6-22-2021; Ord. 3602, passed 2-
15-2022; Ord. 3781, passed 6-17-2025)
CHAPTER 155: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Display of merchandise
   
155.002   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks
Sidewalks
   
155.015   Construction; required; resolution; notice; publication; time limit;
bid procedure; specifications
   
155.016   Condemnation; repair; procedure; cost assessment
   
155.017   Cost; special assessment
   
155.018   Repair and cleaning; owner responsibility
Encroachments, Obstructions and Enclosures
   
155.030   Prohibited acts
   
155.031   Continuance prohibited; owner responsibility
   
155.032   Notice; time limit for removal; service procedure
   
155.033   Removal by city; procedure; cost assessment
Excavations
   
155.045   Permit required; application; exceptions; bond required; conditions;
exceptions; contents; fees
   
155.046   Safety requirements
   
155.047   Repair and replacement; permit holder responsibility
   
155.048   Restoration to original condition; maintenance
   
155.049   Public Works Director; supervision and inspection duties
Poles, Cables and Wires
   
155.060   Over streets; minimum height; exceptions
   
155.061   Erection; permit required; application; contents
   
155.062   Permit; issuance
   
155.063   Board of Commissioners; decision
   
155.064   Complaint; procedure; city action
 
   
155.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 155.001 DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation to display
or cause to be displayed merchandise in such a manner that the merchandise, or
any part thereof, projects over or across any sidewalk in the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.010) (Ord. 1944, passed - -1933) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.002 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to place on the sidewalks or in any
of the streets or alleys of the city any papers, boxes, rubbish, trash, dirt,
filth or any substance or thing that will render the sidewalks, streets or
alleys unclean. The sidewalks and alleys and spaces, back of buildings
bordering on the alleys, must be kept free and clear of any papers, boxes,
rubbish, trash or substance of any kind, and the sidewalks in front of all
business houses shall be kept by their occupants free and clear from
obstructions, filth and dirt.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.010) (Ord. 1282, passed - -1912) Penalty, see §
155.999
**** SIDEWALKS ****
§ 155.015 CONSTRUCTION; REQUIRED; RESOLUTION; NOTICE; PUBLICATION; TIME LIMIT;
BID PROCEDURE; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the city may, by resolution passed at
any meeting of the Board, require the building of any new sidewalk upon the
petition of 25 or more taxpayers residing in the ward in which the sidewalk is
proposed to be laid, in which resolution shall be specified the kind, the width
and the length of the sidewalk to be built, and also the time in which the same
shall be built, which shall not be later than 30 days after the passage and
publication of such resolution. Immediately upon the passage of the resolution
by the Board of Commissioners ordering any sidewalk to be built, it shall be
the duty of the Clerk to cause the publication of the resolution, also the
publication of a notice stating the name of the street or streets upon which
the sidewalk or walks are to be constructed, and the legal description of the
lots or pieces of ground upon which they abut, which resolution and notice
shall be published in two issues of the official city paper.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.010)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner or owners of any property
abutting upon any sidewalk ordered to be built to build the sidewalk in
accordance with the resolution mentioned in division (A) above. If the sidewalk
is not constructed within 30 days, unless longer time is granted by the Board
of Commissioners, then it shall be and is made the duty of any Board of
Commissioners to proceed to build the sidewalk. A detailed estimate of the cost
shall be made, under oath, by the City Engineer and submitted to the Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   Sealed proposals for construction of the sidewalk shall be invited
by an advertisement published by the City Clerk in the official city paper. The
notice shall state the time and place at which the bids will be opened, and the
Board of Commissioners shall let the work by contract to the lowest responsible
bidder if the bid does not exceed the estimate.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.020)
   (C)   All sidewalks constructed within the city shall be of cement mixed in
accordance with specifications prepared by or approved by the Engineer. It is
unlawful for any person to put down or cause to be put down within the city any
sidewalk composed in whole or part of wood or any other combustible material;
or to put down or cause to be put down any limestone flagging sidewalk or stone
or vitrified brick sidewalk without first having obtained the consent of the
Board of Commissioners given at a regular meeting of the Board and entered in
the minutes of such meeting.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.040)
(Ord. 1755, passed - -1924) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.016 CONDEMNATION; REPAIR; PROCEDURE; COST ASSESSMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners may, at any time, by resolution condemn any
portion of any sidewalk whenever, in its judgment, it is deemed necessary, and
provide for the construction of a new sidewalk in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, or may provide for the removal of any sidewalk
without providing for any new sidewalk in its stead. No formality shall be
required to authorize the repairing of the sidewalk, but the City Engineer,
after giving five days’ notice to the owner or his or her agent, if known, of
the necessity therefor, and without notice if the lot or piece of land is
unoccupied, may make all necessary repairs at any time, keeping account of
costs thereof and reporting same to the Board of Commissioners. The city shall
levy a special assessment against the lots or pieces of land abutting on the
sidewalk so repaired for the cost of repairs together with a penalty of 20% of
the amount thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.030) (Ord. 1755, passed - -1924)
§ 155.017 COST; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   To pay for constructing or repairing any sidewalk within the city, special
assessment shall be levied on all lots and pieces of land abutting on any such
sidewalk, according to the frontage feet thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.050) (Ord. 1755, passed - -1924)
§ 155.018 REPAIR AND CLEANING; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owners and occupants of any real estate within the corporate limits of
the city are severally required to keep in good order and repair any sidewalk
or gutter adjoining or abutting any real estate so owned or occupied, and any
such owners and occupants are also required to keep such sidewalks and gutters
clean and free from ice, snow and other substances.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.060) (Ord. 798, passed - -1901) Penalty, see §
155.999
**** ENCROACHMENTS, OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCLOSURES ****
§ 155.030 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons, to encroach upon, obstruct or
enclose, any of the streets, alleys, avenues and public grounds of the city, or
any part or portion of any of the streets, avenues, alleys or public grounds,
by fencing in or by building or erecting structures, houses, fences, walls,
stairs, staircases or porches upon, in or over the same.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.010) (Ord. 644, passed - -1891) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.031 CONTINUANCE PROHIBITED; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons now owning property within the city
encroaching upon, obstructing or enclosing in the manner mentioned in §
155.030 of this chapter, any of the streets, alleys, avenues or public grounds,
or any part or portion of the same, to permit said encroachments, obstructions
or enclosures to continue after the expiration of the time mentioned in the
notice provided for in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.020) (Ord. 644, passed - -1891) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.032 NOTICE; TIME LIMIT FOR REMOVAL; SERVICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person now or hereafter owning property encroaching upon,
obstructing or enclosing any of the streets, alleys, avenues and public
grounds, or any part of the same in the city m the manner described in §
155.030 of this chapter, shall be notified, in writing by the Codes Officer to
remove, abate and discontinue said encroachments, obstructions or enclosures
within 15 days from the time the notice is served upon them.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.030)
   (B)   (1)   The notice provided for in division (A) above shall be served by
the Codes Officer by leaving a copy thereof with the owner of the property, or
at the owner’s usual place of residence. The codes officer shall endorse upon
the original of the notice the time and manner of serving the same, and the
notice shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk and shall be deemed and
taken as prime facie evidence that service of the notice was made as set forth
in this section.
      (2)   When the person or persons to be served with the notice are non-
residents of the city, the Codes Officer shall make publication service by
publishing the notice for three consecutive days in the official paper of the
city, and the publication shall be deemed of the same force and effect as if
personal service had been made.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.040)
(Ord. 644, passed - -1891)
§ 155.033 REMOVAL BY CITY; PROCEDURE; COST ASSESSMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Codes Officer if, at the expiration of 15 days,
the encroachments, obstructions or enclosures have not been removed, abated and
discontinued, to remove, abate and discontinue the encroachments, obstructions
and enclosures, or cause the same to be done, at the expense of the city. The
Codes Officer shall certify to the City Clerk the names of the owners of the
property, together with the descriptions of their property adjacent to the
encroachments, obstructions and enclosures, and the cost of removing, abating
or discontinuing the same, and the cost shall be assessed upon and against the
owners of the adjacent property each year by the City Manager and the Board of
Commissioners of the city, and the same shall be certified to the County Clerk
to be placed upon the tax roll and collected as other special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.050) (Ord. 644, passed - -1891)
**** EXCAVATIONS ****
§ 155.045 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; EXCEPTIONS; BOND REQUIRED; CONDITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS; CONTENTS; FEES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person, firm or corporation to
remove, destroy, cut or encumber any sidewalk, alley, curb, gutter or any
improved surface of any street or alley, or to make any opening or excavation
therein or in the area known as the parking, between the right-of-way of the
street and the adjacent private property line, or in any public parking lot, or
to lay any pipes or wires in the city, unless and until a permit has been
issued by the city authorizing such work. The permit shall be issued upon
application to the city-showing the necessity for such work and the nature of
the work proposed to be done, and upon the approval thereof by the city;
provided that, the private property owners adjacent to the above-mentioned
public property shall not be required to obtain a permit for the purpose of
planting trees, shrubs or flowers on the public property.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.010)
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation desiring to perform any excavation work
in the public property referred to in division (A) above shall be issued a
permit for such work until that person, firm or corporation has first filed
with the City Clerk a surety bond in the amount of $2,000 in favor of the city.
The condition of the bond shall be that said person, firm or corporation will
hold the city harmless from all liability arising from any work performed by
that person, firm or corporation, pursuant to the permit referred to in
division (A) above, and shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter in
every respect; provided that, all persons, firms or corporations granted a
franchise by the city or who have filed a bond with the City Clerk pursuant to
the terms of another ordinance of the city are exempt from the provisions of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.020)
   (C)   Any permit issued for making any excavation, opening or cut in any
street, curb, gutter, alley or public parking lot, including the parking and
sidewalks therein, shall specify the location of such opening, the approximate
depth and area of the authorized excavation or cutting, and the curb, gutter,
sidewalk or other improvement to be cut or removed and rebuilt or replaced by
the permittee within a period to be limited by the permit.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.030)
   (D)   Individual applicants for such permit, provided that said work is
approved by the city, will be issued a permit at no cost; provided, however,
that, all persons, firms or corporations granted a franchise by the city are
exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.040)
(Ord. 2563, passed - -1975; Ord. 3041, passed - -1992; Ord. 3489, passed 12-13-
2016) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.046 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave any excavation
open or uncovered, or to leave any building materials, vehicle or like
obstruction in any street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, public parking lot or
public way in the city during the course of any improvement, unless the same is
guarded at all times by barricades and unless any such work or obstructions are
guarded with lights sufficient in number and so placed as to warn and guard
vehicles and pedestrians from injury or danger. Emergency services shall be
notified of all such obstructions.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.050) (Ord. 2563, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.047 REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT; PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any street, pavement, public parking lot, sidewalk or curb and gutter is
damaged by any person operating under a permit issued under the provisions of
this subchapter, the permit holder shall repair or replace the same at his or
her own expense, and he or she shall be liable on his or her bond for the
satisfactory repair of the same. If the total amount of the bond is inadequate
to make satisfactory repairs or pay damages which may have been sustained, the
permit holder shall be liable for any additional amount required to make the
repairs or pay damages. The permit holder shall under no circumstances be
considered as an agent of the city. All work or repairs shall be done under the
supervision of the Public Works Director. If repairs are not made, or if
unsatisfactorily made, the city may complete the same and charge the costs to
the permit holder. The permit holder shall further be subject to punishment
under the criminal provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.060) (Ord. 2563, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.048 RESTORATION TO ORIGINAL CONDITION; MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the duty of any person, firm or corporation making an excavation
in any of the improved or unimproved streets, alleys or other public grounds of
the city to restore such excavation to its original condition within 14 days
from the commencement of work or the date the permit was issued (whichever
shall first occur), and to maintain the same for a period of six months
following the replacement of the excavated materials. If restoration is not
completed within the allowed 14-day time period, the same person, firm or
corporation will be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, will be
assessed a penalty of $150 per day for each day that restoration is not
completed. If the site is not properly maintained for six months following
replacement of excavated materials and following notice of the same, a penalty
of $150 per day may be assessed for each day that the maintenance is not
completed.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.090) (Ord. 2563, passed - -1975; Ord. 3489, passed 12-13-
2016) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.049 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR; SUPERVISION AND INSPECTION DUTIES.
   The Public Works Director, or any other city official so designated by the
City Manager, shall be responsible for monitoring and ensuring that all
excavations, openings and cuts in the streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs and
gutters of the city, are in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.100) (Ord. 2563, passed - -1975)
**** POLES, CABLES AND WIRES ****
§ 155.060 OVER STREETS; MINIMUM HEIGHT; EXCEPTIONS.
   Any and all persons or corporations using the streets, avenues or alleys of
the city for the purpose of placing, locating and maintaining cables or wires
in, over, along or across the streets, avenues or alleys of the city shall
place, locate and maintain such cables or wires, at the point where the cables
or wires cross any street, avenue or alley, at least 25 feet above the surface
of the street, avenue or alley; provided that, this provision shall not in any
way be construed to affect the trolley wire of any street railway company
operating cars and maintaining trolley wires upon and along any of the streets,
avenues or alleys of the city; provided further that, whenever any person, firm
or corporation may have a good and lawful reason for passing under any cable or
wires, as mentioned above, which cable or wires may be lower than 25 feet above
the surface of the street, avenue and alley over which the same may pass, the
cable or wires shall be raised at the expense of the person, firm or
corporation maintaining the cable or wires, upon the person desiring to have
the cable or wires raised notifying the person, firm or corporation owning or
maintaining the cable or wires, of his or her desire.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.010) (Ord. 1036, passed - -1907) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.061 ERECTION; PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   It is unlawful for any company or corporation to erect any telegraph or
telephone pole or poles, or string any wires thereon within the city, without
first filing with the codes officer a written application stating the intended
location of each pole, the kind and height thereof and the height at which
wires are to be strung, and receiving from the codes officer a permit to erect
the same.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.020) (Ord. 821, passed - -1902) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.062 PERMIT; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Codes Officer, upon the filing of any
application for a permit, to inspect the location or locations applied for, and
if, in his or her judgment, such location or locations are suitable and proper,
and the kind and height of poles suitable, and the height at which wires are to
be placed sufficient, he or she shall issue to such company or corporation a
permit.
   (B)   If, in his or her judgment, the interests of the public will be better
protected by other locations, or a different kind of poles, or different
construction, he or she will issue his or her permit accordingly, keeping in
view proper protection to drainage, shade trees, ingress and egress to and from
property and the rights and interests of the public generally.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.030) (Ord. 821, passed - -1902)
§ 155.063 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; DECISION.
   If a company or corporation is not satisfied with the locations or kind of
poles or other items of construction designated by the Codes Officer, such
company or corporation may notify the City Manager, who shall convene the Board
of Commissioners without unnecessary delay, and the Board of Commissioners
shall by resolution designate the locations of the poles, the kind and height
thereof and the height at which the wires shall be strung upon the line or part
of line desired to be erected.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.040) (Ord. 821, passed - -1902)
§ 155.064 COMPLAINT; PROCEDURE; CITY ACTION.
   (A)   Any person owning or occupying any property abutting upon any street
or alley along which any telegraph or telephone line extends who feels that his
or her rights have been infringed upon by the location, character or condition
of the line, may call upon the Codes Officer to inspect the same and if, in his
or her opinion, any changes should be made in the location or construction of
the line, including its poles, wires and all fixtures and appliances, then he
or she shall notify the company or corporation owning the line, or its agents,
designating the changes desired. If the company does not within three days
commence to make such alterations and finish the same within reasonable time,
he or she shall notify the City Manager and Board of Commissioners and also
notify the company or its agents to appear before the Board of Commissioners at
a date to be named in the notice, when an opportunity will be given the company
or its agents to be heard regarding such alterations.
   (B)   After the hearing, the Board of Commissioners may by resolution direct
such alterations to be made in the kind and location of poles, and in the
height at which the wires shall run, and any such changes in construction as
may seem to the Board of Commissioners proper. It shall be the duty of the
corporation to proceed at once to make such alterations.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.050) (Ord. 821, passed - -1902)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
155.001 of this chapter shall be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.020)
   (C)   Any person or persons who violate the provisions of §
155.002 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.020)
   (D)   Any person who puts down or causes to be put down within the city any
sidewalk in violation of the provisions and requirements of §§
155.015 through
155.018 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances. Such sidewalk may be considered an
obstruction in the street and may be removed by the city at any time at the
cost of the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.070)
   (E)   Any person or persons who violate the provisions of §§
155.030 through
155.033 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.060)
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation, opening or cuts
in the streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs, gutters or other public grounds of
the city without first complying with the provisions of §§
155.045 through
155.049 of this chapter, or who violates any of the provisions of §§
155.045 through
155.049 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished in the amount of $150 for each count and may be
assessed the costs, labor and/or expenses required to restore the property as
set out in §§
155.045 through
155.049 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.120)
   (G)   Any company or corporation erecting or having erected any telephone or
telegraph pole or poles, or stringing any wire or wires in violation of the
provisions of §§
155.060 through
155.064 of this chapter, or maintaining such pole or poles or wire or wires at
any point or points from which they have been ordered to be removed by
resolution of the Board of Commissioners, shall be subject to a penalty of $5
per day, payable to the city for each pole for each and every day such pole or
poles are permitted to stand; provided that, in case any pole or poles are
ordered to be removed, the company shall have five days from the passage of
such resolution before the penalty shall be attached. All penalties are to be
recovered by civil action in any court having competent jurisdiction, and, in
addition to such penalties, every agent, employee or other person who erects or
who shall in any manner aid or assist in the erection or maintenance of any
such telephone or telegraph pole or poles, or the stringing of any wire or
wires contrary to the provisions of §§
155.060 through
155.064 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.060)
(Ord. 644, passed - -1891; Ord. 798, passed - -1901; Ord. 821, passed - -1902;
Ord. 1282, passed - -1912; Ord. 1755, passed - -1924; Ord. 1944, passed - -
1933; Ord. 2563, passed - -1975; Ord. 3489, passed 12-13-2016)
CHAPTER 156: TREES
Section
Street Trees
   
156.001   Definitions
   
156.002   Permitted species
   
156.003   Spacing requirements
   
156.004   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
156.005   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
156.006   Distance from utilities
   
156.007   Care and maintenance
   
156.008   Obstruction of street lamp, intersection or traffic-control device
prohibited
   
156.009   Dead, diseased trees; removal
   
156.010   Park Commission; interference prohibited
   
156.011   Arborist; license; fee; insurance required
 
   
156.999   Penalty
**** STREET TREES ****
§ 156.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and in all areas owned by the city to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.010) (Ord. 2527, passed - -1974)
§ 156.002 PERMITTED SPECIES.
   (A)   The following list constitutes the official street tree species list
for the city.
   (B)   No species other than those included in this list may be planted as
street trees without permission from the city’s Park Commission:
Small Trees Medium Trees Large Trees
Small Trees               Medium Trees                  Large Trees
Flowering Crabapple (sp.) Honeylocust                   Bur Oak
Paper Mulberry            Pin Oak                       English Oak
Redbud                    Chinaberry                    Hackberry
Mimosa                    Kentucky Coffeetree           London Planetree
Hawthorn (sp.)            Red Mulberry (male)           American Sycamore
Flowering Dogwood         Goldenraintree                Pecan
Bradford Pear             Osageorange (male, thornless) Red Oak
Purple-leaf Plum          Japanese Pagodatree           Black Walnut
Flowering Peach           Sweetgum                      Green Ash
Common Apricot            Tulip Poplar                  Silver Maple
                                                      Cottonwood
                                                      (Cottonless)
                                                      Basswood
 
(Prior Code, § 12.24.020) (Ord. 2527, passed - -1974) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.003 SPACING REQUIREMENTS.
   The spacing of street trees shall be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in §
156.002 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer together than the
following:
   (A)   Small trees: 30 feet;
   (B)   Medium trees: 40 feet; and
   (C)   Large trees: 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.030) (Ord. 2527, passed - -1974) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.004 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks
shall be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
156.002 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer than the following
to any curb or sidewalk:
   (A)   Small trees: two feet;
   (B)   Medium trees: three feet; and
   (C)   Large trees: four feet.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.040) (Ord. 2527, passed - -1974) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.005 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 20 feet to any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest-intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet to any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.050) (Ord. 2527, passed - -1974) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.006 DISTANCE FROM UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
156.002 of this chapter may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any
overhead utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground
waterline, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.060) (Ord. 2527, passed - -1974) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.007 CARE AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owners and occupants of any real estate within the corporate
limits of the city are severally required to prune, maintain and remove any and
all plants, shrubs or trees as may be necessary to ensure safety. Said owner or
occupant may be compelled to prune, remove or maintain said trees and shrubs by
the Codes Officer of the city when it is deemed said trees and shrubs are
diseased, dead, damaged or decaying to such an extent that they pose a safety
hazard. The owners or occupiers of said property will be given a written notice
from the Codes Officer and shall have ten days after said notice to effectuate
said repair, removal or maintenance of said plants, trees and shrubs or the
city may take appropriate legal action.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove,
plants, trees and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure the safety or
to preserve the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. In the event the
city is required to fulfill the owners’ or occupiers’ responsibilities under
this section the cost associated with providing said service shall be borne by
the owners and occupiers of the property, shall be assessed against the real
estate, shall be taxed against said real estate and shall be collected by the
city in any appropriate means necessary.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.070) (Ord. 2527, passed - -1974; Ord. 3137, passed - -
1996) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.008 OBSTRUCTION OF STREET LAMP, INTERSECTION OR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE
PROHIBITED.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that the branches do not obstruct the light
from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection, and so
that there is a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or
right-of-way. Such owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property
when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a
streetlight, or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device or
sign.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.080) (Ord. 2527, passed - -1974) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.009 DEAD, DISEASED TREES; REMOVAL.
   The city shall have the right to the removal of any dead or diseased trees
on public or private property within the city when such trees constitute a
hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitutes a
potential threat to other trees within the city. Removal shall be done by
owners at their own expense within 60 days after the date of service of the
notice. In the event of the failure of owners to comply with such provisions,
the city shall have the authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of
removal on the owner’s property tax notice.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.090) (Ord. 2527, passed - -1974; Ord. 3598, passed 12-7-
2021) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.010 PARK COMMISSION; INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
city’s Park Commission, or any of its agents or servants, while engaging in and
about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any
street trees, park trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.100)
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall have the right to review the conduct,
acts and decisions of the city’s Park Commission. Any person may appeal from
any ruling or order of the city’s Park Commission to the Board of
Commissioners, who shall hear the matter and make a final decision.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.120)
(Ord. 2527, passed - -1974) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.011 ARBORIST; LICENSE; FEE; INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of trimming, pruning, treating or removing street or park trees
within the city without first applying for and procuring a license. The license
fee shall be $30 annually, in advance; provided, however, that, no license
shall be required of any public service company or city employee doing such
work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any license is
issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability
insurance in the minimum amounts of $25,000 for bodily injury and $10,000
property damage indemnifying the city and any person injured or damaged
resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as described in this section.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.110) (Ord. 2527, passed - -1974; Ord. 3042, passed - -
1992) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
156.001 through
156.011 of this chapter shall, upon conviction or plea of guilty be punished as
provided in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.130) (Ord. 2527, passed - -1974)
CHAPTER 157: AIRPORT REGULATIONS
Section
   
157.001   Short title
   
157.002   Definitions
   
157.003   Airport Airspace Protection Commission; zones established
   
157.004   Airport Zone height limitations
   
157.005   Construction requirements; supplemental notice
   
157.006   Use restrictions
   
157.007   Non-conforming uses
   
157.008   Permits
   
157.009   Administration and enforcement
   
157.010   Appeals
   
157.011   Airport Board of Appeals; review
   
157.012   Judicial review
   
157.013   Conflicting regulations
 
   
157.999   Penalty
§ 157.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Fort Scott Municipal
Airport Height and Hazard Regulations”.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.010) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 157.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. Any item which has ceased to be used for its designed and
intended purpose. The factors used in determining whether or not an item has
been abandoned include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Present operability and functional utility of the item;
      (2)   The date of last effective use of the item;
      (3)   The condition of disrepair or damage;
      (4)   The last time an effort was made to repair or rehabilitate the
item;
      (5)   The status of registration or licensing of the item;
      (6)   The age and degree of obsolescence;
      (7)   The cost of rehabilitation or repair of the item when compared to
its market value; or
      (8)   The nature of the area and location of the item.
   AIRPORT. The Fort Scott Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT AIRSPACE PROTECTION COMMISSION. The Commission appointed by the city
and Bourbon County and Crawford County, comprised of two members of the Fort
Scott Airport Advisory Board, the City Zoning Administrator and one appointee
each from the two counties, to function as the temporary Airport Zoning
Commission for the purposes of hosting a public hearing and recommending to the
City Commission adoption of height and hazard regulations.
   AIRPORT BOARD OF APPEALS (BOARD OF APPEALS). The Appeals Board to consider
appeals from the enforcement of these regulations, to be appointed by the city
and Bourbon County and Crawford County, comprised of two members of the Fort
Scott Airport Advisory Board, the City Zoning Administrator and one appointee
each from the two counties.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The highest point of the airport’s usable landing area
measured in feet above sea level (918 feet above mean sea level for FSK).
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking-off or
permanently raises the published or planned approach minimums at any airport or
is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking-off of aircraft.
   AIRPORT HAZARD AREA. Also referred to as the AIRPORT AIRSPACE PROTECTION
AREA. Any area of land or water upon which an airport hazard might be
established, including any which may permanently raise the published or planned
approach minimums of the airport, if not prevented as provided in this chapter
and as depicted on the “Airport Hazard Area Map” adopted by and made a part of
this chapter; and including the FAA part 77, Civil Airport Imaginary Surfaces,
which consist of the horizontal surface, conical surface, primary surface,
approach surface, transitional surface and precision approach surfaces; and the
terminal instrument procedures (TERPS) surfaces and the vertically guided
approach surfaces (VGAS) for the airport as referenced on the State Department
of Transportation’s (KDOT) “Kansas Airspace Awareness Tool”, at http:/
www.ksdot.org/airspacetool.
   AIRPORT HAZARD AREA MAP. The map depicting the airspace airport airspace
protection area and attached to the ordinance from which this chapter derives
as Exhibit A, and made a part hereof.
   AIRPORT LAYOUT PLAN (ALP). A plan adopted by the City Commission that
depicts existing airport facilities and proposed developments as determined
from the airport planners’ review of the aviation activity forecasts, facility
requirements and alternatives analysis.
   AIRPORT MANAGER or MANAGER. The administrative staff assigned by the city to
manage the Fort Scott Municipal Airport and to administer these regulations.
   APPROACH MINIMUMS. The minimum ceiling or visibility under which an aircraft
may be landed with the use of a published approach procedure. It also means
planned non-precision or precision instrument approach minimums so indicated on
an approved airport layout plan or any other planning document.
   APPROACH SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
§
157.004 of this chapter. In plan, the perimeter of the APPROACH SURFACE
coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
   CITY COMMISSION. The City Commission for the City of Fort Scott Kansas.
   CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery
of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 feet horizontally to each foot
vertically (20:1) for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
   CONSTRUCT A MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (MSWLF). To excavate or grade
land, or raise structures, to prepare a municipal solid waste landfill as
permitted by the appropriate regulatory or permitting authority.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FSK. The three-letter identifier assigned by the Federal Aviation
Administration to the public-use airport owned and operated by the city, as a
“location identifier” for airport navigation aid, weather station and manned
air traffic control facility in air traffic control, telecommunications,
computer programming, weather reports and related services.
   FORT SCOTT AIRPORT (FORT SCOTT MUNICIPAL AIRPORT FSK). The public-use
airport owned and operated by the City of Fort Scott, Kansas.
   HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
   HAZARDOUS WILDLIFE. Species of wildlife (birds, mammals, reptiles),
including feral animals and domesticated animals not under control, that are
associated with aircraft strike problems, are capable of causing structural
damage to airport facilities, or act as attractants to other wildlife that pose
a strike hazard.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter and shown on the Fort Scott Airport Hazard Area Map, the
datum shall be mean HEIGHTS as measured from the elevations of FSK Runway 18-36
unless otherwise specified.
   HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with the perimeter
of the horizontal zone.
   LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to
be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than 12,500 pounds maximum
gross weight and jet powered aircraft (FSK Runway 18-36).
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in §
157.004 of this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association
joint stock association or government entity; includes a trustee, a receiver,
an assignee or a similar representative of any of them.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway. The width of the PRIMARY SURFACE is set
forth in §
157.003 of this chapter. The elevation of any point on the PRIMARY SURFACE is
the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and taking-off of
aircraft along its length.
   RUNWAY, NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT APPROACH. A runway having an existing
instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only
horizontal guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in
non-precision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned (FSK
Runway 18-36 existing).
   RUNWAY, PRECISION INSTRUMENT APPROACH or INSTRUMENT APPROACH PROCEDURE
(TAP). A series of predetermined maneuvers for the orderly transfer of an
aircraft under instrument flight conditions from the beginning of the initial
approach to a landing, or to a point from which a landing may be made visually
(FSK Runway 18-36 ultimate).
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, or refuse, sludge from a wastewater treatment
plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural
operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or
dissolved materials in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in
irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources subject
to permit under PDFS regulations.
   STRUCTURE. An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
humans, including but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes,
smokestacks, earth formation and overhead transmission lines.
   TERMINAL INSTRUMENT PROCEDURES (TERPS). Surfaces that are constructed from
the electronic signals transmitted by ground-based and satellite-based air
navigation electronic equipment, which are the instrument procedures that
aircraft pilots use to fly between airports and land on runways.
   TRANSITIONAL SURFACES. These surfaces extend outward at ninety degree angles
to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven
feet horizontally for each foot vertically (7:1) from the sides of the primary
and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical
surfaces. TRANSITIONAL SURFACES for those portions of the precision approach
surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface,
extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the
approach surface and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   VERTICALLY GUIDED APPROACH SURFACES (VGAS). Satellite-based approach
surfaces which are established to protect instrument approach procedures (IAP)
that provide vertical guidance and lower approach minima. Examples of landings
systems protected by VGAS include instrument landing system (ILS) based
approaches and GPS based procedures utilizing a wide area augmentation system
(WAAS) with localizer performance with vertical guidance (LPV); and which can
improve airport capacity when ground based systems are out of service, and
provide accurate, reliable access to more airports previously not served by
precision approaches.
   WILDLIFE ATTRACTANTS. Any human-made structure, land-use practice or human-
made or natural geographic feature that can attract or sustain hazardous
wildlife within the airport hazard area. These ATTRACTANTS can include
architectural features, landscaping, waste disposal sites, wastewater treatment
facilities, agricultural or aquaculture activities, surface mining or wetlands.
   ZONES: APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, CONICAL, VGAS AND TERPS. The
zones that are set forth in §
157.003 of this chapter.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The staff person assigned by the city to administer
the city zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.020) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
Editor’s note:
   Exhibit A referenced in this section is not set out herein, but is on file
in the office of the City Clerk.
§ 157.003 AIRPORT AIRSPACE PROTECTION COMMISSION; ZONES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Prior to establishing the zones that are set forth in this chapter,
there shall be submitted to the City Commission reports and recommendations by
the Fort Scott Airport Airspace Protection Commission (hereafter referred to as
the “Commission”), which Commission shall:
      (1)   Recommend the boundaries of the various zones that are set forth;
      (2)   Recommend the height and hazard regulations to be adopted therefor;
      (3)   Make a preliminary report which considers:
         (a)   The character of the flying operations currently conducted and
expected to be conducted at the airport;
         (b)   The nature of the terrain within the airport hazard area;
         (c)   The character of the neighborhood in and surrounding the airport
hazard area; and
         (d)   The uses to which the property to be regulated is put and
adaptable.
      (4)   Hold a public hearing on the recommended regulations and submit a
final report and recommendations to the City Commission.
   (B)   The airport height and hazard regulations shall apply to the airport
hazard areas as recommended by the airspace protection commission and adopted
by the City Commission. The airport hazard area, wherein the height and hazard
regulations apply, include all of the land area as defined in these
regulations, generally lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional
surfaces, horizontal surfaces, conical surfaces and any other territory
surrounding the Fort Scott Airport divided into zones, including the
established and ultimate minimum approach surfaces and precision approaches, as
depicted on the Fort Scott Airport Hazard Area Map Exhibit A (which is based on
the KDOT “Kansas Airspace Awareness Tool” at http:/www.ksdot.org/airspacetool),
and Exhibit B (which is based on the FSK Airport Airspace Drawing, existing and
ultimate, as adopted in the FSK ALP), both of which are made a part hereof and
attached to the ordinance from which this chapter derives. The airport hazard
area map exhibits are provided to the public as an attachment to the ordinance
from which this chapter derives for illustrative purposes only in order to
generally show where these regulations apply; and they are not to be relied
upon as regulatory tools. For administrative purposes, when applying these
regulations on a case-by-case basis, the standard FAA procedures for
determining compliance of proposed structures with height and hazard standards
should be relied upon as the starting point for interpreting the applicability
of these regulations.
   (C)   An area located in more than one of the following zones is considered
to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation. The various
zones are hereby established and defined as follows.
      (1)   FAR part 77, Surfaces, sub-part C, Civil Airport Imaginary Surfaces
Zones. The horizontal surface, conical surface, primary surface, approach
surface and transitional surface as designated by the FAA.
         (a)   Runway Larger than Utility with a Visibility Minimum Greater
than 3/4- Mile Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone (34:1). The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500
feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet
at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway (FSK Runway 18-
36, existing).
         (b)   Runway Larger Than Utility With a Visibility Minimum Less Than
3/4-Mile Precision Instrument Approach Zone (50:1). The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet
wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at
a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline
is the continuation of the centerline of the runway (FSK Runway 18-36,
ultimate).
         (c)   Transitional Zone. The transitional zones are the areas beneath
the transitional surfaces.
         (d)   Horizontal Zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging
arcs of 5,000 feet radii for all runways designated utility or visual and
10,000 feet for all others from the center of each end of the primary surface
of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to
those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional
zones.
         (e)   Conical Zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
      (2)   Runway Approach Minimum Zones. The approach zones to the runways,
the minimum ceiling or visibility under which an aircraft may be landed with
the use of a published approach procedure; and the planned non-precision or
precision instrument approach minimums so indicated on the approved airport
layout plan (ALP) or the airport hazard area map, which depicts the terminal
instrument procedures (TERPS) surfaces and the vertically guided approach
surfaces (VGAS) for the airport as referenced on the State Department of
Transportation’s (KDOT) “Kansas Airspace Awareness Tool” at http:/
www.ksdot.org/airspacetool.
      (3)   Terminal Instrument Procedures Surface (TERPS) Zones. Can extend
ten nautical miles from a runway, constructed from the electronic signals
transmitted by ground and space based air navigation electronic equipment,
which instrument procedures aircraft pilots use to fly between airports and
land on runways.
      (4)   Vertically Guided Approach Surfaces (VGAS) Zones. Provide lower
minima for approach procedures that do not rely on ground based navigational
systems, including instrument landing system (ILS), to improve airport capacity
when ground based systems are out of service; for better access to runways with
terrain or airspace constraints using curved RNAV legs and narrower protected
surfaces; and for improved safety by eliminating circling maneuvers and
providing laterally and vertically guided approaches not available through
conventional ground-based navigational aid (NAVAID) procedures or through
existing area navigation (RNAV) procedures.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.030) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 157.004 AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be
erected, altered or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any
zone created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height
herein established for such zone.
   (B)   Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of
the zones in question as follows.
      (1)   FAR part 77, Surfaces, sub-part C, Civil Airport Imaginary Surfaces
Zones. The horizontal surface, conical surface, primary surface, approach
surface and transitional surface as designated by the FAA.
         (a)   Runway Larger Than Utility With a Visibility Minimum Greater
Than 3/4- Mile Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone. Slopes 34 feet outward
for each foot upward (34:1) beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet
along the extended centerlines of each runway (FSK Runway 18-36, existing).
         (b)   Runway Larger Than Utility With a Visibility Minimum Less Than
3/4-Mile Precision Instrument Approach Zone. Slopes 50 feet outward for each
foot upward (50:1) beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet along the
extended centerlines of each runway (FSK Runway 18-36, ultimate).
         (c)   Transitional Zones. Slope seven feet outward for each foot
upward (7:1) beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of 100 feet above
the elevations each runway. In addition to the foregoing, there are established
height limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the
sides of and at the same elevation as the approach surface of each runway, and
extending to where they intersect the conical surface. Where the precision
instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, there are
established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach surface and
extending a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90-degree angles to
the extended runway centerline.
         (d)   Horizontal Zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport
elevation.
         (e)   Conical Zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward (20:1)
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the
airport elevations and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport
elevations.
      (2)   Runway Approach Minimum Zones. The slopes established by the
minimum ceiling or visibility under which an aircraft may be landed with the
use of a published approach procedure; and by the planned non-precision or
precision instrument approach minimums so indicated on an approved airport
layout plan or any other planning document.
      (3)   Terminal Instrument Procedures (TERPS) Surface Zones. The slopes
established by the electronic signals transmitted by ground and space based air
navigation electronic equipment, which instrument procedures aircraft pilots
use to fly between airports and land on runways, and as referenced on the State
Department of Transportation’s (KDOT) “Kansas Airspace Awareness Tool” http:/
www.ksdot.org/airspacetool.
      (4)   Vertically Guided Approach Surfaces (VGAS) Zones. The slopes
established by the VGAS approach surfaces longitudinally centered on the
extended runway centerline beginning at the runway threshold and extending
outward and upward at a slope of 40 feet outward for each foot upward (40:1)
(2.5%) for a horizontal distance of 20,200 feet. The surface is 2,000 feet wide
(1,000 feet either side of centerline) at the runway threshold and expands to a
width of 8,000 feet at 10,200 feet from threshold. From 10,200 to 20,200 feet
the surface is 8,000 feet wide (4,000 feet either side) and parallel to the
runway centerline extended and referenced on the State Department of
Transportation’s (KDOT) “Kansas Airspace Awareness Tool” http:/www.ksdot.org/
airspacetool.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.040) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 157.005 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS; SUPPLEMENTAL NOTICE.
   In order to comply with §§
157.003 and
157.004 of this chapter, as well as relevant FAA Advisory Circulars, including
hazardous wildlife attractants on or near airports, AC No: 150/5200-33B, this
section is established to require notice of construction or alteration to any
object(s) that potentially affects the navigable airspace of the Fort Scott
Municipal Airport. Any application for a permit directed to the City Commission
that potentially affects the navigable airspace of the Fort Scott Municipal
Airport must be supplemented by a completed and submitted Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) Form 7460-1 (2-99), Notice of Proposed Construction or
Alteration. Any application to construct or alter any wildlife attractant or a
proposed municipal solid waste landfill shall be supplemented by a completed
and submitted FAA Form 7460-1 (2-99).
(Prior Code, § 8.36.050) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 157.006 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
create wildlife attractants or habitat for hazardous wildlife or otherwise in
any way endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of
aircraft intending to use the airport. Furthermore, no use may be made of the
land or water within any zone established by this chapter that would result in
permanently raising the published or planned approach minimums.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.060) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 157.007 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   The regulations prescribed in this chapter shall not be construed to require
the removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any structure or tree
not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of the ordinance
from which this chapter derives, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of
a legal non-conforming use.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive. Nothing contained herein shall require
any change in the construction, alteration or intended use of any structure,
the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date
of the ordinance from which this chapter derives and is diligently prosecuted.
   (B)   Marking and lighting and tree trimming. Notwithstanding the preceding
provision of this section, the owner of any existing non-conforming structure
or tree is hereby required to permit the installation operation, and
maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by
the airport manager to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of
the airport the presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights
shall be installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the Fort Scott
Airport and, hence, the City Commission. In the event of a non-conforming tree,
the tree shall be topped, cropped or trimmed at the expense of the Fort Scott
Airport and, hence, the City Commission.
   (C)   Non-conforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Fort Scott
Airport manager determines that a non-conforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than 51% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no
permit shall be granted that would allow the reconstruction of such abandoned
or destroyed non-conforming structure or tree to exceed the applicable height
limit or otherwise deviate from these height and hazard regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.070) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 157.008 PERMITS.
   No permit shall be granted for a use inconsistent with the provisions of
this chapter, or for a use that would allow the establishment or creation of an
airport hazard or permit a non-conforming structure to be made or become higher
or become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was when the applicable
regulation was adopted or when the application for a permit is made; unless a
variance has been approved.
   (A)   Permits required when. Permit applications shall be submitted for
proposed structures in any of the zones or surfaces, except as specifically
provided in division (B) below. Each permit application shall be submitted on
forms required by the city to determine whether the resulting use, structure or
tree would conform to these regulations. If such determination is in the
affirmative, the permit shall be granted.
   (B)   No permit required when. No permit shall be required for structures
shorter than 75 feet; provided that, in an approach or transitional zone the
proposed structure or tree is more than 4,200 feet from the end of a runway;
provided further that, this permit exception shall not be construed as
permitting any construction, or alteration of any structure, or growth of any
tree in excess of any of the height limits established by this chapter.
   (C)   Permit conditioned on FAA Form 7460-1, “Notice of Construction”. Any
proposed construction, alteration or repair requiring a permit must have filed
an FAA Form 7460-1 (FAA 77.13, Construction or Alteration Requiring Notice)
with the appropriate FAA regional office. No construction, alteration or repair
work may commence until the determination is received from the FAA and said
determination is reviewed by the airport manager in consultation with the City
Commission.
   (D)   Permit may be conditioned on marking or lighting and tree trimming.
Any permit or variance granted may be conditioned on a requirement that the
owner of the structure or tree in question install, operate and maintain, at
the owner’s expense, such markings and lights or tree trimming as may be deemed
reasonably necessary to effectuate the purpose of this chapter. If deemed
proper by the City Commission, this condition may be modified to require the
owner to permit the City Commission, at its own expense, to top, crop or trim
the tree or install, operate and maintain the necessary markings and lights.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.080) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 157.009 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the airport manager of the Fort Scott Airport to
administer the regulations prescribed herein in consultation with the City
Commission. Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the airport
manager upon a form published for that purpose. Applications required by this
chapter to be submitted to the airport manager shall be promptly granted or
denied. In the event the applying party receives what they determine to be an
adverse decision, the party shall have the right to apply to the Airport Board
of Appeals for review of the decision.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.090) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 157.010 APPEALS.
   (A)   Who may appeal. Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any
decision of the airport manager of the Fort Scott Airport, made in the
administration of the chapter, may appeal to the Airport Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Powers of the Airport Board of Appeals.
      (1)   The Airport Board of Appeals shall have the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision
or determination made by the airport manager in the enforcement of this
chapter;
         (b)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this
chapter upon which such Airport Board of Appeals under such regulations may be
required to pass; and
         (c)   To hear and decide specific variances.
      (2)   The Board may, in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement,
decision or determination as may be appropriate under the circumstances.
   (C)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use of property, not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to
Airport Board of Appeals for a variance from such regulations. The application
for variance shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the published or planned
approach minimums, operation of air navigation facilities and the safe,
efficient use of navigable airspace. Such variances shall be allowed where it
is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations will
result in necessary hardship and relief granted, will not be contrary to the
public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do
substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter.
Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of this chapter
may be considered by the Airport Board of Appeals unless a copy of the
application has been furnished to the City Commission for review and comment;
and, for appeals in unincorporated territory of a county, to the respective
county commission for same. If the Fort Scott Airport manager does not respond
to the application for a variance within 14 days after receipt, the Airport
Board of Appeals may act on its own to grant or deny said variance application.
   (D)   Meetings of the Board of Appeals. Meetings of the Airport Board of
Appeals for the purposes of this chapter and the review of any decision by the
airport manager shall be at the regularly scheduled Airport Advisory Board
meeting time, unless a special meeting is called. The Airport Board of Appeals
shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each
question; or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
immediately be filed in the office of the City Clerk and on due cause shown.
   (E)   Reasonable time for rulings. The Airport Board of Appeals shall fix a
reasonable time for hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the
parties in interest and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney. The airport
manager shall transmit to the Airport Board of Appeals all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (F)   Appeal to stay all proceedings. An appeal shall stay all proceedings
in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the airport manager certifies
to the Airport Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed with
it, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would in the
opinion of the airport manager cause imminent peril to life or property. In
such case, proceedings shall not be stayed, except by order of the Airport
Board of Appeals or notice to the airport manager and on due cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.100) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 157.011 AIRPORT BOARD OF APPEALS; REVIEW.
   The Airport Board of Appeals shall make written findings of facts and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of
the Airport Board of Appeals shall be sufficient to reverse any order,
requirement, decision or determination of the airport manager or decide in
favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under
this chapter or to effect variation to this chapter. Any person aggrieved, or
any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Airport Board of Appeals shall be
entitled to a judicial review of said decision as set forth below.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.110) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 157.012 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
Airport Board of Appeals may appeal to the District Court of the county,
pursuant to state law.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.120) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 157.013 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict exists with respect to the height of structures or
trees, and the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation
or requirement shall govern and prevail.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.140) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order or ruling
promulgated thereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
by a fine as set by the City Commission; and each day a violation continues to
exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.130) (Ord. 3415, passed 7-17-2012)
CHAPTER 158: SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
Section
   
158.001   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
   
158.002   H, Historic District
   
158.003   County Government Zoning District
§ 158.001 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   There is incorporated by reference for the purpose of prescribing
zoning and subdivision regulations, that certain code known as “Zoning
Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations of the City of Fort Scott, Kansas 1988-
89”, prepared for the city and published in 1989 by Professional Engineering
Consultants; three copies of which code have been filed in the office of the
Clerk of the city, having been marked “Official Copy as Incorporated by
Ordinance No. 2992”, to which shall be attached a copy of the ordinance
codified in this section and filed with the City Clerk to be open for
inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours. The zoning and
subdivision regulations are adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length in this section, and from the date on which the ordinance codified in
this section takes effect, their provisions thereof shall be controlling within
the boundaries of the city and shall also control all real estate outside of
the city boundaries which is within three miles thereof.
   (B)   There is further adopted by the governing body of the city, for the
purpose of defining the boundaries of zone districts referred to in the zoning
regulations adopted in this section, a certain map marked “Official Copy as
Incorporated by Ordinance No. 2992”, and filed in the office of the City Clerk.
The map shall be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable business hours. The map and all notations, references and other
information shown thereon shall be deemed to be a part of this section by this
reference and shall have the same force and effect as if the map and all
notations, references and other information shown thereon were fully set forth
or described in this section.
(Prior Code, § 17.04.010) (Ord. 2532, passed - -; Ord. 2645, passed - -; Ord.
2665, passed - -; Ord. 2701, passed - -; Ord. 2703, passed - -; Ord. 2702,
passed - -; Ord. 2738, passed - -; Ord. 2767, passed - -; Ord. 2782, passed -
-; Ord. 2847, passed - -; Ord. 2848, passed - -; Ord. 2950, passed - -; Ord.
2849, passed - -; Ord. 2850, passed - -; Ord. 2860, passed - -; Ord. 2868,
passed - -; Ord. 2885, passed - -; Ord. 2890, passed - -; Ord. 2904, passed -
-; Ord. 2919, passed - -; Ord. 2945, passed - -; Ord. 2946, passed - -; Ord.
2965, passed - -; Ord. 2971, passed - -; Ord. 2992, passed - -1989; Ord. 3184,
passed - -2000)
§ 158.002 H, HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   Creation. Creation of the H Historic District is intended to promote
the educational, cultural, economic and general welfare of the public through
the preservation and protection of historic buildings; through the development
of an appropriate setting for these buildings; and through the benefits
resulting to the economy of the city by developing and maintaining its vacation
travel industry through the promotion of these historic areas.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.010)
   (B)   Application for rezoning. Application for zoning classification in the
H Historic District shall be made by the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.020)
   (C)   Membership; terms. Application for a certificate of appropriateness
shall be made to the Zoning Administrator for the city. The Fort Scott Historic
Preservation and Resource Commission shall review the certificates of
appropriateness and signs and make a recommendation to the City Commission in
determining the appropriateness of design and architectural techniques to be
utilized in maintaining the historical integrity in the historic district. The
Fort Scott Historic Preservation and Resource Commission shall have no more
than 30 days from the date the application is filed to make said recommendation
the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.030)
   (D)   Certificate of appropriateness; considerations. The City Commission
shall not consider interior arrangement, relative size of the building or
structure, or features not subject to any public view, and shall not make any
requirements, except for the purpose of preventing developments obviously
incongruous to the purposes of the Historic District within which the structure
is located. The Board of Commissioners shall consider the following in passing
upon the appropriateness of proposed architectural changes and proposed uses:
      (1)   Exterior architectural features, including all signs, which are
subject to public view from a public street, way or place;
      (2)   General design and arrangement;
      (3)   Texture, material and color;
      (4)   The extent to which the appearance of the structure would be
harmonious with or obviously inappropriate to the historic character and value
thereof;
      (5)   In case of a building proposed to be demolished or razed, a primary
consideration will be the extent to which its continued existence would tend to
protect irreplaceable historic places and/or structures and to preserve the
general historic atmosphere of the city; and
      (6)   The extent to which the proposed alteration of the structure or the
proposed use thereof will promote or injure the general welfare of the
inhabitants of the city and all citizens in promoting the preservation and
protection of historic places and areas.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.040)
   (E)   Certificate of appropriateness; approval. Decisions of the Board of
Commissioners will be incorporated in certificates of appropriateness when
approved or there shall be written reasons for disapproval. Immediately upon
approval by the Board of Commissioners of any application to erect,
reconstruct, alter, restore or raze a building, a certificate of
appropriateness signed by the Mayor and bearing the date of issuance shall be
made available to the applicant. The Building Inspector shall refuse to honor
any request for a building permit without such a certificate of
appropriateness; but a certificate of appropriateness will in no way affect the
requirement to comply with the other provisions necessary to obtain a building
permit.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.050)
   (F)   District regulations. In the H District, no land shall be used and no
structure shall be used, demolished, reconstructed, restored, painted, altered,
enlarged or erected, except in conformity to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.060)
   (G)   Uses. The H District designation shall neither enlarge or restrict any
use permitted within the zoning district within which the historical structure
was situated prior to the application of the H District designation.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.070)
   (H)   Area, setback, frontage, yard and parking regulations. Structures
within a historic district shall not be altered so as to not conform to the
general established pattern already in existence in the district insofar as
area, setback, frontage, yard and parking regulations are concerned.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.080)
   (I)   Structural alterations.
      (1)   No building within a historic district may be demolished, in whole
or in part, nor may any external architectural feature of a building be
altered, without prior approval of the Board of Commissioners. Neither shall
any building or structure hereafter be erected, reconstructed, altered or
restored within a historic district unless and until an application for a
certificate of appropriateness shows it has been approved by the aforementioned
Board of Commissioners. Review of such application by the Board of
Commissioners will include an analysis of external architectural features,
including signs which are subject to view from any public street or place.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this section shall preclude alteration or
reconstruction of the interior portion of any structure within a Historic
District, so long as the same shall in no way alter the external appearance of
such structure.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.090)
   (J)   Fees and expenses.
      (1)   A fee of $2 shall be charged to an applicant seeking a zoning
amendment which would classify property within the H Historic District.
      (2)   A fee of $1 shall be charged to an applicant seeking a certificate
of appropriateness, as provided in this section.
      (3)   Unless otherwise provided, all additional expenses of obtaining a
zoning amendment classifying property within the H Historic District,
including, but not limited to, publication costs, shall be paid by the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.100)
   (K)   Fencing regulations.
      (1)   All fencing shall be maintained and not detract from the historical
integrity of the Fort Scott Historic District. Any fencing is considered a form
of construction and any fencing must be reviewed by the Fort Scott Historic
Preservation and Resource Commission and issued a building permit by the city.
      (2)   The following guidelines must be adhered to in the Historic
District.
         (a)   Existing historic fencing should be maintained repaired, and
restored when needed. If replacement was to become necessary, it should be in
compliance with the existing guidelines.
         (b)   The use of fencing in the historic district should be strongly
discouraged unless the existence can be documented with historic photographic
evidence, or there is a documented need for fencing to block access to property
for security, or to stop access to nuisance areas of properties such as between
buildings, around HVAC units, power boxes and exposed water and gas lines.
Fences in downtown areas were typically behind buildings if they were used and
generally not viewable from public streets, so this needs to be kept in mind if
considering a fence in the Historic District.
         (c)   New fences are subject to review and recommendation by the Fort
Scott Historic Preservation and Resource Commission and approval by the City
Commission. New fences may be added to historic district properties provided
there is a documented need and they are appropriate to the style and type of
property in terms of design, style and size. The following building materials
are prohibited for use in fencing in the Downtown Historic District:
            1.   Any type of gridded metal material such as chainlink, wire
netting, wire mesh, hog wire, barbed wire, farm wire, chicken wire, two-by-four
wire and the like;
            2.   Light gauge metal tins, plastic, wood split rail and cinder or
concrete blocks;
            3.   Bricks and native stone to the area could be considered if
there is documented use of them with a particular building and they match the
existing structure; and
            4.   Solid wood fences like stockade or vertical board fences are
discouraged, but may be allowed if minimally visible from a public street or do
not obscure the view of historic buildings.
         (d)   Any fencing should not exceed six feet tall.
         (e)   Fencing shall not impede the flow of water across the property.
         (f)   These guidelines should supersede commercial zoning regulations
regarding fences in a commercial area if the property falls within the Historic
District.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.110)
(Ord. 2607, passed - -1976; Ord. 3016, passed - -1990; Ord. 3495, passed 3-28-
2017; Ord. 3538, passed 8-21-2018; Ord. 3798, passed 4-7-2026)
Cross-reference:
   Historic Preservation, see
Chapter 152
§ 158.003 COUNTY GOVERNMENT ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The County Government Zoning District is intended
for the purpose of allowing the Board of County Commissioners the authority to
construct and erect all buildings, parking lots and other improvements
necessary for said county for the county to carry out its governmental
functions.
(Prior Code, § 17.12.010)
   (B)   District regulations. In the County Government Zoning District, no
structure or land shall be used, constructed, erected, altered or enlarged
without the express written consent of the Board of County Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 17.12.020)
   (C)   Uses allowed. The County Government Zoning District shall include uses
that are necessary for the county government of the county to carry out its
political function.
(Prior Code, § 17.12.030)
   (D)   Intensity of use regulations. All intensity of use regulations shall
be established by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 17.12.040)
   (E)   Height, yard, sign and parking regulations. All height, yard, sign and
parking regulations shall be established by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 17.12.050)
   (F)   Plumbing, Electrical and Fire Code regulations. The city shall
maintain control and authority over all improvements constructed in the County
Government Zoning District, which will require plumbing and electrical service.
Control over these two areas as well as ensuring compliance with the Fire Code
of the city are specifically reserved to the city for public safety purposes.
(Prior Code, § 17.12.060)
(Ord. 2779, passed - -1981)
CHAPTER 159: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
159.001   Statutory authorization
   
159.002   Findings of fact
   
159.003   Statement of purpose
   
159.004   Lands to which chapter applies
   
159.005   Compliance
   
159.006   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
159.007   Interpretation
   
159.008   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
159.009   Severability
   
159.010   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
159.025   Floodplain development permit; application
   
159.026   Floodplain Administrator; duties and responsibilities
   
159.027   Violations
   
159.028   Amendments
Variances
   
159.040   Appeal Board; establishment; responsibilities
   
159.041   Further appeals
   
159.042   Criteria
   
159.043   Conditions for approving floodplain management variances
   
159.044   Conditions for approving agricultural structure variances
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
159.055   General standards
   
159.056   Specific standards
   
159.057   Manufactured or mobile homes
   
159.058   Areas of shallow flooding (AO and AH Zones)
   
159.059   Floodway
   
159.060   Recreational vehicles
 
   
159.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 159.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The following floodplain management regulations, as written, were
approved in draft form by the Chief Engineer of the Division of Water Resources
of the state’s Department of Agriculture on 9-11-2024.
   (B)   (1)   The legislature of the state has, in K.S.A. 12-741 et seq., and
specifically in K.S.A. 12-766, delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt floodplain management regulations designed to
protect the health, safety and general welfare of the public.
      (2)   Therefore, the City Commission ordains as follows.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The special flood
hazard areas of the city are subject to inundation which results in loss of
life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
and relief, and impairment of the tax base; all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of development in any delineated floodplain
causing increases in flood heights and velocities; and
      (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods,
hazardous to others, inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected from flood
damages.
   (C)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. The Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
that is the basis of this chapter uses a standard engineering method of
analyzing flood hazards, which consist of a series of interrelated steps:
      (1)   Selection of a base flood that is based upon engineering
calculations, which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its
expected frequency of occurrence, the area inundated and the depth of
inundation. The base flood selected for this chapter is representative of large
floods, which are characteristic of what can be expected to occur on the
particular streams subject to this chapter. The base flood is the flood that is
estimated to have a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any one year as
delineated on the Federal Insurance Administrator’s FIS, and illustrative
materials dated 2-14-2025, as amended, and any future revisions thereto;
      (2)   Calculation of water surface profiles that are based on a standard
hydraulic engineering analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and
overbank areas to convey the regulatory flood;
      (3)   Computation of a floodway required to convey this flood without
increasing flood heights more than one foot at any point;
      (4)   Delineation of floodway encroachment lines within which no
development is permitted that would cause any increase in flood height; and
      (5)   Delineation of flood fringe (i.e., that area outside the floodway)
encroachment lines, but still subject to inundation by the base flood.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the public; to minimize those losses described in §
159.002(A) of this chapter; to establish or maintain the community’s
eligibility for participation in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) as
defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(a)(3); and to meet the requirements of 44 C.F.R. §
60.3(d) and K.A.R. 5-44-4; by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities that
serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction; and
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands that are unsuited for the
intended development purposes due to the flood hazard.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.004 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city in
Bourbon County identified as numbered and unnumbered A Zones, AE, AO and AH
Zones on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) panels referenced on the
associated FIRM Index dated 2-14-2025, as amended, and any future revisions
thereto. In all areas covered by this chapter, no development shall be
permitted, except through the issuance of a floodplain development permit,
granted by the City Commission or its duly designated representative under such
safeguards and restrictions as the City Commission or the designated
representative may reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the
general welfare, health of the inhabitants of the community, and as
specifically noted in §§
159.055 through
159.060 of this chapter.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.005 COMPLIANCE.
   No development located within the special flood hazard areas of this
community shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.006 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
   (C)   All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.007 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, shall be liberally construed in favor
of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.008 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and
bridge openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas
outside the floodway and flood fringe or land uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create a
liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee thereof, for any
flood damages that may result from reliance on this chapter, or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.009 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of appropriate jurisdiction, the
remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. See BASE FLOOD.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. The same as APPURTENANT STRUCTURE.
   ACTUARIAL RATES. See RISK PREMIUM RATES.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Federal Insurance Administrator.
   AGENCY. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES. Agricultural products and livestock.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. Any structure used exclusively in connection with
the production, harvesting, storage, drying or raising of agricultural
commodities and livestock.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure that is on the same parcel of property as
the principle structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may
be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. Also referred
to as SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the surface of the water during a 1%
annual chance flood event.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHIEF ENGINEER. The Chief Engineer of the Division of Water Resources,
Kansas Department of Agriculture.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER or CHIEF ELECTED OFFICIAL. The official of the
community who is charged with the authority to implement and administer laws,
ordinances and regulations for that community.
   COMMUNITY. Any state or area or political subdivision thereof, which has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for the areas
within its jurisdiction.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, levees, levee
systems, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations or storage of equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   ELIGIBLE COMMUNITY or PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community for which the
Administrator has authorized the sale of flood insurance under the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before 1-1-1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dryland areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland waters;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source; and
      (3)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood, or
by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as
defined above in division (1) above.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community on
which the Administrator has delineated both special flood hazard areas and the
designated regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION. A determination by the Administrator of the
water surface elevations of the base flood. That is, the flood level that has a
1% or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area outside the floodway encroachment lines, but still
subject to inundation by the regulatory flood.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood areas having special flood
hazards have been designated as (unnumbered or numbered) A zones.
   FLOOD HAZARD MAP. The document adopted by the governing body showing the
limits of:
      (1)   The floodplain;
      (2)   The floodway;
      (3)   Streets;
      (4)   Stream channel; and
      (5)   Other geographic features.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See FLOODING.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as floodplain and grading ordinances) and other applications of police
power. The term describes such state or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, that provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities or
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES. The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state and local floodplain maps.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
bridge openings and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. This term
includes only docking facilities and facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, but does not include long-term
storage or related manufacturing facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places:
         (a)   Listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register; and
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      (2)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement
area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable flood-proofing design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does include mobile homes manufactured prior to 1976, but
does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM), Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
or the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) for a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   MARKET VALUE or FAIR MARKET VALUE. An estimate of what is fair, economic,
just and equitable value under normal local market conditions.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP),
the National American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which
base flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after 12-31-1974, whichever is later, and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain
management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after the effective date of the floodplain
management regulations adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
   NFIP. The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
   NUMBERED A ZONE. A special flood hazard area where the Flood Insurance Rate
Map shows the base flood elevation.
   ONE PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. See BASEFLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Also known as an ELIGIBLE COMMUNITY, means a
community in which the Administrator has authorized the sale of flood
insurance.
   PERMIT. A signed document from a designated community official authorizing
development in a floodplain, including all necessary supporting documentation
such as:
      (1)   The site plan;
      (2)   An elevation certificate; and
      (3)   Any other necessary or applicable approvals or authorizations from
local, state or federal authorities.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association or any other entity, including federal, state and
local governments and agencies.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. Base flood waters will not inundate the land
or damage structures to be removed from the SFHA and that any subsurface waters
related to the base flood will not damage existing or proposed buildings.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently able to be towed by a
light-duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with federal, state or local floodplain management regulations; or,
if this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its non-compliance.
   RISK PREMIUM RATES. Those rates established by the Administrator pursuant to
individual community studies and investigations, which are undertaken to
provide flood insurance in accordance with § 1307 of the National Flood
Disaster Protection Act of 1973 and the accepted actuarial principles. RISK
PREMIUM RATES include provisions for operating costs and allowances.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   SPECIAL HAZARD AREA. An area having special flood hazards and shown on an
FHBM, FIRM or FBFM as Zones (unnumbered or numbered) A, AO, AE or AH.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvements, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the ACTUAL START of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other
improvements were within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, any work beyond the stage of excavation or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, the
installation of streets and/or walkways, excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, the erection of temporary forms, nor installation on the
property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STATE COORDINATING AGENCY. The Division of Water Resources, Kansas
Department of Agriculture, or other office designated by the governor of the
state or by state statute at the request of the Administrator to assist in the
implementation of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) in that state.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home. STRUCTURE for insurance purposes, means a walled
and roofed building, other than a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground and affixed to a permanent site, as well as a
manufactured home on a permanent foundation. For the latter purpose, the term
includes a building while in the course of construction, alteration or repair,
but does not include building materials or supplies intended for use in such
construction, alteration or repair, unless such materials or supplies are
within an enclosed building on the premises.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to pre-damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures, which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
that have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   UNNUMBERED A ZONE. A special flood hazard area shown on either a flood
hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map where the base flood elevation
is not shown on the FIRM. Commonly referred to as Zone A in Kansas, meaning a
non-detailed study.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. Flood insurance requirements remain in place for any
varied use or structure and cannot be varied by the community.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required by this chapter is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 159.025 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   A floodplain development permit shall be required for all proposed
construction or other development, including the placement of manufactured or
mobile homes, in the areas described in §
159.004 of this chapter. No person, firm, corporation or unit of government
shall initiate any development or substantial improvement or cause the same to
be done without first obtaining a separate floodplain development permit for
each structure or other development.
   (B)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every
floodplain development permit application shall:
      (1)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by lot,
block and tract, house and street address or similar description that will
readily identify and specifically locate the proposed structure or work;
      (2)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the floodplain
development permit;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   Indicate the assessed value of the structure and the fair market
value of the improvement;
      (5)   Specify whether development is located in designated flood fringe
or floodway;
      (6)   Identify the existing base flood elevation and the elevation of the
proposed development;
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Floodplain Administrator;
      (8)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction; and
      (9)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.026 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Planning, Housing and Community Development Director is hereby
appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Review of all applications for floodplain development permits to
assure that sites are reasonably safe from flooding and that the floodplain
development permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review of all applications for floodplain development permits for
proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been obtained
from federal, state or local governmental agencies from which prior approval is
required by federal, state or local law;
      (3)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine
whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (4)   Issue floodplain development permits for all approved applications;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the Division of Water Resources,
State Department of Agriculture, prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
      (6)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity is not diminished and shall
be maintained within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse;
      (7)   Verify and maintain a record of the actual elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or
substantially improved structures;
      (8)   Verify and maintain a record of the actual elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) that the new or substantially improved non-residential
structures have been flood-proofed; and
      (9)   When flood-proofing techniques are utilized for a particular non-
residential structure, the Floodplain Administrator shall require certification
from a registered professional engineer or architect.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.027 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator may make reasonable entry upon any lands
and waters in the city for the purpose of making an investigation, inspection
or survey to verify compliance with these regulations. The Floodplain
Administrator shall provide notice of entry by mail, electronic mail, phone
call or personal delivery to the owner, owner’s agent, lessee or lessee’s agent
whose lands will be entered. If none of these persons can be found, the
Floodplain Administrator shall affix a copy of the notice to one or more
conspicuous places on the property a minimum of five days prior to entry.
   (B)   A structure or other development without a floodplain development
permit or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until
such documentation is provided.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide written notice of a
violation of this chapter to the owner, the owner’s agent, lessee or lessee’s
agent by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt requested. The
written notice shall include instructions and a deadline to request a hearing
before the Appeals Board and, if no hearing is requested, a deadline by which
the violation must be corrected.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024) Penalty, see §
159.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1617
§ 159.028 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this chapter may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed or appealed to reflect any
and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973;
provided, however, that, no such action may be taken until after a public
hearing in relation thereto, at which parties of interest and citizens shall
have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. At least
20 days shall elapse between the date of this publication and the public
hearing. A copy of such amendments will be provided to the FEMA Region VII
office. The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the NFIP
regulations.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
**** VARIANCES ****
§ 159.040 APPEAL BOARD; ESTABLISHMENT; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall act as the Appeal Board, as
established by the City Commission, and shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from the floodplain management requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Where an application for a floodplain development permit is
denied by the Floodplain Administrator, the applicant may apply for such
floodplain development permit directly to the Appeal Board, as defined in
division (A) above.
      (2)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.041 FURTHER APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any taxpayer may
appeal such decision to the District Court, as provided in K.S.A. 12-759 and
12-760.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.042 CRITERIA.
   In passing upon such applications for variances, the Appeal Board shall
consider all technical data and evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and the following criteria:
   (A)   Danger to life and property due to flood damage;
   (B)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
   (C)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (D)   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
   (E)   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
   (F)   Availability of alternative locations, not subject to flood damage,
for the proposed use;
   (G)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (I)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (J)   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters, if applicable, expected at the site; and
   (K)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems; streets; and bridges.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.043 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVING FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood elevation; providing, items in divisions (B) through (F)
below have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, repair or restoration
of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the State
Inventory of Historic Places or local inventory of historic places upon
determination; provided, the proposed activity will not preclude the
structure’s continued historic designation and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
significant increase in flood discharge or base flood elevation would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (F)   (1)   A community shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property.
      (2)   Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
   (G)   A community shall maintain a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance.
   (H)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that the criteria of divisions (A)
through (F) above are met, and the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.044 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVING AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE VARIANCES.
   (A)   New agricultural structures should be built to standards specified
under §
159.056(B)(2) of this chapter pertaining to non-residential structures unless a
variance is granted to wet flood-proof the structure at grade. Any variance
granted for an agricultural structure shall be decided individually based on a
case by case analysis of the building’s unique circumstances. Variances granted
shall meet the following conditions as well as those criteria and conditions
set forth in §§
159.058 and
159.059 of this chapter.
   (B)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the
threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be included
for any variance issued for agricultural structures that are constructed at-
grade and wet flood-proofed.
      (1)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
proposed varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no
other alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for
the agricultural structure. Residential structures, such as farmhouses, cannot
be considered agricultural structures.
      (2)   Use of the proposed structures must be limited to exclusively
agricultural purposes in a Zones A, AE, Al-30, AH, AO, floodplain as identified
on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Hazard Boundary Map
(FHBM).
      (3)   Proposed structures must not increase risks and pose a danger to
public health, safety and welfare if flooded contents are released, including,
but not limited to, the effects of flooding on manure storage, livestock
confinement operations, liquefied natural gas terminals and production and
storage of highly volatile, toxic or water-reactive materials.
      (4)   Proposed structures have low damage potential (amount of physical
damage, contents damage and loss of function).
      (5)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring and the like) below the base
flood elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
159.055 of this chapter.
      (6)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with §
159.055(D) of this chapter. All the building’s structural components must be
capable of resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic,
buoyancy and hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      (7)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or flood-proofed so that they are
contained within a water-tight, flood-proofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
159.055(D) of this chapter.
      (8)   The agricultural structures must meet all National Flood Insurance
Program (NFIP) opening requirements. The NFIP requires that enclosure or
foundation walls, subject to the 1% annual chance flood event, also referred to
as the 100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters in accordance with §
159.056(C) of this chapter.
      (9)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway encroachment provisions of §
159.059 of this chapter. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures
within any designated floodway, if any increase in flood levels would result
during the 1% annual chance flood event, also referred to as the 100-year
flood.
      (10)   Major equipment, machinery or other contents must be protected
from any flood damage.
      (11)   No disaster relief assistance under any program administered by
any federal agency shall be paid for any repair or restoration costs of the
agricultural structures.
      (12)   (a)   A community shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a community official that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property.
         (b)   Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
      (13)   Wet-flood-proofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the community and a registered professional engineer or architect
prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for construction.
   (C)   Exceptions to the variance requirement for agricultural structures
apply only to those that are substantially damaged by flooding and agricultural
structures that are repetitive loss structures. These are allowed to be
permitted to be repaired or restored to pre-damage condition; provided, the
following are satisfied.
      (1)   If substantially damaged, the substantial damage determination is
based only on the cost to repair damage caused by flooding to pre-damage
conditions.
      (2)   The proposed repair or restoration does not change the size of the
structure and does not significantly alter the nature of the building. With the
exception of costs associated with wet flood-proofing in accordance with §
156.060 of this chapter, proposals that include work beyond or in addition to
that necessary to repair or restore the structure to pre-damage condition must
be regulated as substantial improvements.
      (3)   The repaired or restored structure will continue to be an
agricultural structure, as defined in these regulations.
      (4)   Owners are notified, in writing, that agricultural structures
approved under this section:
         (a)   Will not be eligible for disaster relief under any program
administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or any other federal
agency;
         (b)   Will have National Flood Insurance Program flood insurance
policies rated based on the structure’s risk; and/or
         (c)   May be denied National Flood Insurance Program flood insurance
policies if repairs do not include the wet flood-proofing construction
requirements of §
159.060 of this chapter.
      (5)   When owners elect to wet flood-proof flood-damaged agricultural
structures as part of repair or restoration to pre-damage condition, the
structure shall comply with the standards of §
159.060 of this chapter.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
**** FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION ****
§ 159.055 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   No permit for floodplain development shall be granted for new
construction, substantial improvements and other improvements, including the
placement of manufactured or mobile homes, within any numbered or unnumbered A
Zones, AE, AO and AH Zones, unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied.
   (B)   All areas identified as unnumbered A Zones on the FIRM are subject to
inundation of the 1% annual chance or 100-year flood; however, the base flood
elevation is not provided. Development within unnumbered A Zones is subject to
all provisions of this chapter. If Flood Insurance Study data is not available,
the community shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation or floodway data currently available from federal, state or other
sources.
   (C)   Until a floodway is designated, no new construction, substantial
improvements or other development, including fill, shall be permitted within
any numbered A Zones or AE Zones on the FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that
the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
   (D)   All new construction, subdivision proposals, substantial improvements,
prefabricated structures, placement of manufactured or mobile homes and other
developments shall require:
      (1)   Design or adequate anchorage to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Construction with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   Utilization of methods and practices that minimize flood damages;
      (4)   All electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air-conditioning
equipment and other service facilities be designed and/or located so as to
prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding;
      (5)   New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters and on-site waste
disposal systems be located so as to avoid impairment or contamination; and
      (6)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, located within special flood hazard
areas are required to assure that:
         (a)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage;
         (b)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
         (c)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
         (d)   All proposals for development, including proposals for
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, of greater than five acres or 50
lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals base flood elevation
data.
   (E)   Storage of material or equipment may be allowed if not subject to
major damage by floods, if firmly anchored to prevent flotation, or if readily
removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning.
   (F)   A structure, or the use of a structure or premises that was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such structure, use or utility service has been or is
discontinued for six consecutive months, any future use of the building shall
conform to this chapter.
      (2)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the pre-damaged market value of the structure. This limitation does not include
the cost of any alteration to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, building, safety codes, regulations or the cost of any alteration of
a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the State
Inventory of Historic Places or local inventory of historic places upon
determination.
   (G)   (1)   Structures used solely for parking and limited storage purposes,
not attached to any other structure on the site, of limited investment value,
and not larger than 600 square feet, may be constructed at-grade and wet flood-
proofed; provided, there is no human habitation or occupancy of the structure;
the structure is of single-wall design; the accessory structure meets the
following floodplain management requirements; and a floodplain development
permit has been issued. Wet flood-proofing is only allowed for small low cost
structures.
      (2)   Any permit granted for an accessory structure shall be decided
individually based on a case by case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Permits shall meet the following conditions.
         (a)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 1% annual chance
flood event, also referred to as the 100-year flood, and the threat to public
health and safety, the following conditions shall be required for any permit
issued for accessory structures that are constructed at-grade and wet-flood-
proofed.
            1.   Use of the accessory structures must be solely for parking and
limited storage purposes in any special flood hazard area as identified on the
community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
            2.   For any new or substantially damaged accessory structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring and the like) below the base
flood elevation must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance with
division (D) above.
         (b)   The accessory structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure in accordance with
division (D) above. All of the building’s structural components must be capable
of resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
         (c)   Any mechanical, electrical or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or flood-proofed so that they are
contained within a water-tight, flood-proofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with division (D) above.
         (d)   The accessory structures must meet all NFIP opening
requirements. The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to
the 1% annual chance flood event, also referred to as the 100-year flood,
contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and exit of flood waters
in accordance with §
159.056(A) of this chapter.
         (e)   The accessory structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway encroachment provisions of §
159.059(B) of this chapter. No permits may be issued for accessory structures
within any designated floodway, if any increase in flood levels would result
during the 100-year flood.
         (f)   Equipment, machinery or other contents must be protected from
any flood damage.
         (g)   No disaster relief assistance under any program administered by
any federal agency shall be paid for any repair or restoration costs of the
accessory structures.
         (h)   Wet-flood-proofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the community. The community may request approval by a registered
professional engineer or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain
development permit for construction. Cost for any required professional
certification to be paid by the developer.
   (H)   Structures used solely for agricultural purposes in connection with
the production, harvesting, storage, drying or raising of agricultural
commodities and livestock may be constructed at-grade and wet-flood-proofed;
provided, there is no human habitation or occupancy of the structure; the
structure is of single-wall design; there is no permanent retail, wholesale or
manufacturing use included in the structure; a variance has been granted from
the floodplain management requirements of this chapter; and a floodplain
development permit has been issued.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.056 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas identified as numbered and unnumbered A Zones, AE and AH Zones,
where base flood elevation data have been provided, as set forth in §
159.055(B) of this chapter, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structures, including manufactured or mobile homes, shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum of one foot above
base flood elevation. The elevation of the lowest floor shall be certified by a
licensed land surveyor or professional engineer.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structures,
including manufactured or mobile homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation or,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be flood-proofed so
that below one foot above the base flood elevation the structure is water-tight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall verify that the standards of this division (B) are
satisfied. The elevation of the lowest floor shall be certified by a licensed
land surveyor or professional engineer. Such certification shall be provided to
the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
159.026(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   Enclosures below lowest floor. Require, for all new construction and
substantial improvements, that fully enclosed areas below lowest floor used
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other
than a basement and that are subject to flooding shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement
must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or
meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all opening shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.057 MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   All manufactured or mobile homes to be placed within all unnumbered
and numbered A Zones, AE and AH Zones, on the community’s FIRM shall be
required to be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood
damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured or mobile homes must
be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top
or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (B)   Require manufactured or mobile homes that are placed or substantially
improved within unnumbered or numbered A Zones, AE and AH Zones, on the
community’s FIRM on sites:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured or mobile home has incurred substantial-damage as the result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation and be securely attached to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. The elevation of the
lowest floor shall be certified by a licensed land surveyor or professional
engineer.
   (C)   Require that manufactured or mobile homes to be placed or
substantially improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision within all unnumbered and numbered A Zones, AE and AH Zones, on the
community’s FIRM, that are not subject to the provisions of division (B) above,
be elevated so that: the lowest floor of the manufactured or mobile home is a
minimum of one foot above the base flood level. The elevation of the lowest
floor shall be certified by a licensed land surveyor or professional engineer.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.058 AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO AND AH ZONES).
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard as described in §
159.004 of this chapter are areas designated as AO Zones. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (B)   The following provisions apply.
      (1)   AO Zones.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures, including manufactured or mobile homes, shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least
as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least
two feet if no depth number is specified).
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements of any
commercial, industrial or other non-residential structures, including
manufactured or mobile homes, shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated, above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number
specified in feet on the community FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number
is specified) or together with attendant utilities and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed to that so that the structure is water-tight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
         (c)   Adequate drainage paths shall be required around structures on
slopes, in order to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
      (2)   AH Zones.
         (a)   The specific standards for all areas of special flood hazard
where base flood elevation has been provided shall be required as set forth in
§
159.056 of this chapter.
         (b)   Adequate drainage paths shall be required around structures on
slopes, in order to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.059 FLOODWAY.
   (A)   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
159.004 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways.
   (B)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of flood waters that carry debris and potential projectiles, the following
provisions shall apply.
      (1)   The community shall select and adopt a regulatory floodway based on
the principle that the area chosen for the regulatory floodway must be designed
to carry the waters of the base flood without increasing the water surface
elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   The community shall prohibit any encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements and other development within the adopted
regulatory floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
within the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (3)   A community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory
floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations; provided
that, the community first applies for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision,
fulfills the requirements for such revisions as established under the
provisions of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12 and receives the approval of FEMA.
      (4)   If this division (B) is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
159.055 through
159.060 of this chapter.
      (5)   In unnumbered A Zones, the community shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation or floodway data currently
available from federal, state or other sources as set forth in §
159.055(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.060 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within all
unnumbered and numbered A Zones, AE, AH and AO Zones on the community’s FIRM
either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use*; or
      (3)   Meet the permitting, elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes of this chapter.
   (B)   *A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
§ 159.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with granting of variances) shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500
and, in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each
day such violation continues, shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate authority from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any criminal prosecutions or in lieu of any criminal
prosecutions, if the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property has
neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation, nor requested
a hearing within the period specified, the public officer or an authorized
assistant shall abate or remove the conditions causing the violation.
   (C)   If the public officer or an authorized assistant abates or removes the
nuisance pursuant to §
159.027 of this chapter, notice shall be provided to the owner, the owner’s
agent, lessee or lessee’s agent by certified mail, return receipt requested, of
the total cost of the abatement or removal incurred. The notice shall also
state that the payment is due within 30 days following receipt of the notice.
The cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section
may also be recovered.
   (D)   The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or
abatement is not paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or
removal shall be collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and
amendments thereto, or shall be assessed as special assessments and charged
against the lot or parcel of land on which the nuisance was located and the
City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify the
unpaid portion of the costs and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the
tax rolls of the county against such lot or parcel of land and it shall be
collected by the County Treasurer and paid to the city as other city taxes are
collected and paid. The city may pursue collection both by levying a special
assessment and in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments
thereto, but only until the full cost and applicable interest has been paid in
full.
(Ord. 3771, passed 10-15-2024)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kansas Statutes Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Charter Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KANSAS STATUTES ANNOTATED
K.S.A. Cites Code Section
K.S.A. Cites           Code Section
Chapter 2, Article 13  91.041
8-234(B)               113.006
8-1717                 71.004
9-1401 et seq.         32.012
10-123                 33.001
10-131                 33.019
10-1101 et seq         32.012
12-631                 52.010
12-685                 Ch. 73, Schd. I
12-741 et seq.         159.001
12-744 et seq.         32.002
12-759                 159.041
12-760                 159.041
12-766                 159.001
                       50.001;
12-856 et seq.         50.002;
                       50.004
12-1039                31.024
12-1040                31.024
12-1,115               159.999
12-1,117               33.018
12-1,118               33.019
12-1222                95.005
12-1617                159.027
12-1617e               52.012
12-1617g               52.012
12-1675                32.012
                       151.002;
                       152.066;
12-1750 et seq.        152.069;
                       154.042;
                       154.043;
                       154.044
12-3012                70.002
12-3014                10.001
12-3015                10.001
12-5301 et seq.        34.001
12-5901 et seq.        32.012
12-16,102              33.015
Chapter 22, Article 25 53.026
25-205                 30.033
31-157                 130.005
Chapter 32, Article 11 94.039
40-3101 et seq.        71.005;
                       71.023
40-3901 et seq.        154.040
45-216 et seq.         32.012
53-601                 118.003
75-4301 et seq.        32.012
75-4317 et seq.        32.012
75-6101 et seq.        32.012
                       
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2026 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2026 Code Section
1.01.010           10.001
1.04.010           10.002
1.04.020           10.003
1.04.030           10.004
1.04.040           10.005
1.04.050           10.006
1.04.060           10.007
1.04.070           10.008
1.04.080           10.009
1.04.090           10.010
1.08.010           11.001
1.12.010           11.002
1.12.020           11.002
1.12.030           11.002
1.16.010           10.999
2.04.010           30.015
2.04.020           30.015
2.08.010           30.030
2.08.020           30.031
2.08.030           30.032
2.08.040           30.033
2.08.050           30.034
2.16.010           32.001
2.16.020           32.001
2.16.030           32.001
2.16.040           32.001
2.16.050           32.001
2.16.060           32.001
2.16.070           32.001
2.16.080           32.001
2.22.010           32.003
2.22.020           32.003
2.22.030           32.003
2.24.010           31.001
2.24.020           31.001
2.28.010           31.002
2.32.010           31.003
2.32.020           31.003
2.36.010           32.004
2.36.020           32.004
2.36.030           32.004
2.36.040           32.004
2.36.050           32.004
2.36.060           32.004
2.40.010           32.005
2.40.020           32.005
2.40.030           32.005
2.40.040           32.005
2.40.050           32.005
2.44.010           32.006
2.44.020           32.006
2.44.030           32.006
2.44.040           32.006
2.44.050           32.006
2.44.060           32.006
2.46.010           32.007
2.46.020           32.007
2.46.030           32.007
2.46.040           32.007
2.46.050           32.007
2.46.060           32.007
2.46.070           32.007
2.46.080           32.007
2.46.080           32.999
2.52.010           31.005
2.60.010           30.001
2.72.010           32.008
2.72.020           32.008
2.72.030           32.008
2.72.040           32.008
2.76.010           32.009
2.76.020           32.009
2.76.030           32.009
2.76.040           32.009
2.76.050           32.009
2.80.010           32.010
2.80.020           32.010
2.80.030           32.010
2.80.040           32.010
2.80.050           32.010
3.04.010           33.001
3.04.020           33.001
3.04.030           33.001
3.16.010           33.015
3.20.010           33.016
3.28.010           33.017
3.28.020           33.017
3.28.030           33.017
3.28.040           33.017
3.28.050           33.017
3.28.060           33.017
3.32.010           33.018
3.36.010           33.019
3.36.020           33.019
3.36.030           33.019
3.36.040           33.019
3.36.050           33.019
3.36.060           33.019
3.36.070           33.019
5.08.010           111.001
5.08.020           111.002
5.08.030           111.003
5.08.040           111.003
5.08.050           111.004
5.08.060           111.004
5.08.080           111.005
5.08.090           111.006;
                   111.999
5.08.100           111.003
5.08.110           111.007;
                   111.999
5.08.120           111.008
5.08.125           111.008;
                   111.999
5.08.130           111.009;
                   111.999
5.08.140           111.010
5.08.150           111.011
5.08.160           111.999
5.12.010           111.025
5.12.020           111.025
5.12.030           111.025
5.12.040           111.025
5.12.050           111.025
5.12.060           111.026
5.12.070           111.027
5.12.080           111.026
5.12.090           111.028
5.12.110           111.999
5.14.010           111.040
5.14.020           111.041
5.14.030           111.041
5.14.040           111.041
5.14.050           111.041
5.14.060           111.041
5.14.070           111.041
5.14.080           111.041
5.14.090           111.042
5.14.100           111.043
5.14.110           111.999
5.20.010           112.001
5.20.020           112.002
5.20.030           112.003
5.20.040           112.004
5.20.050           112.005
5.20.060           112.006
5.20.070           112.006
5.20.080           112.007
5.20.090           112.008
5.20.100           112.009
5.20.110           112.011
5.20.120           112.010
5.20.130           112.999
5.24.010           113.001
5.24.020           113.002
5.24.030           113.003
5.24.040           113.004
5.24.050           113.005
5.24.060           113.006
5.24.070           113.007
5.24.080           113.008
5.24.090           113.010
5.24.100           113.011
5.24.110           113.012
5.24.120           113.013
5.24.130           113.014
5.24.140           113.009
5.24.150           113.014
5.24.160           113.999
5.32.010           112.025
5.32.020           112.026
5.32.030           112.027
5.32.040           112.028
5.32.050           112.029
5.32.060           112.030
5.32.070           112.031
5.32.080           112.032
5.32.090           112.033
5.32.100           112.034
5.32.110           112.035
5.32.120           112.036
5.32.130           112.999
5.36.010           110.001
5.36.020           110.002
5.36.030           110.003
5.36.040           110.004
5.36.050           110.005
5.36.060           110.006
5.36.070           110.007
5.36.080           110.008
5.36.090           110.999
5.40.010           115.001
5.40.020           115.002
5.40.030           115.003
5.40.040           115.004
5.40.050           115.005
5.40.060           115.006
5.40.070           115.007
5.40.080           115.008
5.40.090           115.009
5.40.100           115.010
5.40.110           115.999
5.44.010           116.001
5.44.020           116.002
5.44.030           116.003
5.44.040           116.004
5.44.050           116.020
5.44.060           116.021
5.44.070           116.022
5.44.080           116.023
5.44.090           116.024
5.44.100           116.025
5.44.110           116.026
5.44.120           116.027
5.44.130           116.028
5.44.140           116.029
5.44.150           116.005
5.44.160           116.006
5.44.170           116.999
5.48.010           114.001
5.48.020           114.002
5.48.030           114.003
5.48.040           114.004
5.48.050           114.999
5.52.010           117.001
6.04.010           90.001
6.04.020           90.002
6.04.030           90.003
6.04.040           90.002
6.04.050           90.002
6.04.060           90.999
6.08.010           90.015
6.08.020           90.016
6.08.030           90.016
6.08.040           90.017
6.08.050           90.018
6.08.060           90.016
6.08.070           90.018
6.08.080           90.018
6.08.090           90.019
6.08.100           90.020
6.08.110           90.021
6.08.120           90.022
6.08.130           90.023
6.08.135           90.024
6.08.140           90.023
6.08.150           90.023
6.08.160           90.025
6.08.170           90.026
6.08.180           90.027
6.08.190           90.027
6.08.200           90.028
6.08.210           90.029
6.08.220           90.030
6.08.230           90.999
6.12.010           90.045
6.12.020           90.046
6.12.030           90.046
6.12.040           90.045
6.12.050           90.047
6.12.060           90.999
8.08.010           91.001
8.08.020           91.001
8.12.010           132.001
8.12.020           132.002
8.12.030           132.003
8.12.040           132.004
8.12.050           132.005
8.12.060           132.006
8.12.070           132.007
8.12.080           132.008
8.12.090           132.011
8.12.100           132.009
8.12.110           132.009
8.12.120           132.010
8.12.130           132.012
8.12.140           132.013
8.12.150           132.013
8.12.160           132.014
8.12.170           132.015
8.12.180           132.999
8.16.010           155.002
8.16.020           155.999
8.20.010           91.015
8.20.020           91.016
8.20.030           91.017
8.20.040           91.018
8.20.050           91.018
8.20.060           91.999
8.20.070           91.019
8.20.080           91.020
8.20.090           91.021
8.20.100           91.022
8.24.010           91.035
8.24.020           91.036
8.24.030           91.037
8.24.040           91.038
8.24.050           91.039
8.24.060           91.040
8.24.070           91.041
8.28.010           34.001
8.28.020           34.002
8.28.030           34.003
8.28.040           34.004
8.32.010           91.002
8.32.020           91.002
8.32.030           91.002
8.32.040           91.002
8.32.050           91.999
8.34.010           133.001
8.34.020           133.002
8.34.030           133.003
8.34.040           133.004
8.34.050           133.005
8.34.060           133.006
8.34.070           133.999
8.36.010           157.001
8.36.020           157.002
8.36.030           157.003
8.36.040           157.004
8.36.050           157.005
8.36.060           157.006
8.36.070           157.007
8.36.080           157.008
8.36.090           157.009
8.36.100           157.010
8.36.110           157.011
8.36.120           157.012
8.36.130           157.999
8.36.140           157.013
9.06.010           92.001
9.06.020           92.002
9.06.030           92.003
9.06.040           92.004
9.06.050           92.005
9.06.060           92.006
9.06.070           92.999
9.12.010           130.002;
                   130.999
9.16.010           130.003
9.16.020           130.003
9.16.030           130.999
9.26.010           130.004;
                   130.999
9.38.010           131.001
9.38.020           131.002
9.38.030           131.003
9.38.040           131.004
9.38.050           131.999
9.40.010           118.001
9.40.020           118.002
9.40.030           118.003
9.40.040           118.999
9.46.010           130.005
9.46.020           130.005
9.46.030           130.999
9.48.010           130.005;
                   130.999
10.04.010          70.001
10.04.020          70.002
10.04.060          70.003
10.04.070          70.004
10.16.010          70.005
10.16.020          70.005
10.20.010          Ch. 73, Schd. I
10.20.020          Ch. 73, Schd. I
10.24.010          Ch. 73, Schd. II
10.24.020          Ch. 73, Schd. II
10.24.030          Ch. 73, Schd. II
10.24.040          Ch. 73, Schd. II
10.24.050          Ch. 73, Schd. II
10.24.060          Ch. 73, Schd. II
10.32.010          93.001
10.32.020          93.002
10.32.030          93.003
10.32.040          93.004
10.32.050          93.005
10.32.060          93.006
10.32.070          93.999
10.36.010          72.001;
                   72.999
10.36.020          72.002
10.36.030          72.002
10.36.040          72.003
10.36.045          72.004;
                   72.999
10.40.010          71.040
10.40.030          71.041
10.40.040          71.042
10.40.050          71.043
10.40.070          71.044
10.40.080          71.044
10.40.090          71.044
10.40.100          71.044
10.40.110          71.044
10.40.120          71.044
10.40.130          71.044
10.40.140          71.045
10.40.150          71.045
10.40.160          71.044
10.40.170          71.046
10.40.180          71.047
10.40.190          71.048
10.40.200          71.999
10.44.010          Ch. 73, Schd. II
10.44.020          Ch. 73, Schd. II
10.48.010          Ch. 73, Schd. III
10.48.011          Ch. 73, Schd. III
10.48.015          Ch. 73, Schd. III
10.48.016          Ch. 73, Schd. III
10.48.020          Ch. 73, Schd. III
10.48.030          Ch. 73, Schd. III
12.04.010          155.015
12.04.020          155.015
12.04.030          155.016
12.04.040          155.015
12.04.050          155.017
12.04.060          155.018
12.04.070          155.999
12.08.010          155.030
12.08.020          155.031
12.08.030          155.032
12.08.040          155.032
12.08.050          155.033
12.08.060          155.999
12.12.010          155.045
12.12.020          155.045
12.12.030          155.045
12.12.040          155.045
12.12.050          155.046
12.12.060          155.047
12.12.090          155.048
12.12.100          155.049
12.12.120          155.999
12.16.010          155.001
12.16.020          155.999
12.20.010          155.060
12.20.020          155.061
12.20.030          155.062
12.20.040          155.063
12.20.050          155.064
12.20.060          155.999
12.24.010          156.001
12.24.020          156.002
12.24.030          156.003
12.24.040          156.004
12.24.050          156.005
12.24.060          156.006
12.24.070          156.007
12.24.080          156.008
12.24.090          156.009
12.24.100          156.010
12.24.110          156.011
12.24.120          156.010
12.24.130          156.999
12.25.010          94.020
12.25.020          94.070
12.28.010          94.035
12.28.020          94.036
12.28.030          94.037
12.28.040          94.038
12.28.050          94.039
12.28.060          94.039
12.28.070          94.039
12.28.080          94.039
12.28.090          94.039
12.28.100          94.039
12.28.110          94.039
12.28.120          94.039
12.28.130          94.040
12.28.140          94.040
12.28.150          94.040
12.28.160          94.041
12.28.170          94.039
12.28.180          94.042
12.28.190          94.043
12.28.200          94.044
12.28.201          94.045
12.28.210          94.046
12.28.230          94.047
12.28.240          94.048
12.28.250          94.049
12.28.260          94.050
12.28.270          94.051
12.28.280          94.052
12.28.300          94.070
12.32.010          94.065
12.32.020          94.066
12.32.040          94.067
12.32.050          94.066
12.32.060          94.066
12.32.061          94.068;
                   94.999
12.32.070          94.069
12.32.080          94.070;
                   94.999
12.32.090          94.070
12.36.005          94.001
12.36.010          94.002
12.36.020          94.003
12.36.021          94.003
12.36.022          94.004
12.36.025          94.005
12.36.030          94.070
12.40.010          94.021
12.40.020          94.021
12.40.030          94.021
12.40.040          94.070
13.04.010          50.001
13.04.020          50.002
13.04.030          50.004
13.04.040          50.005
13.04.050          50.006
13.04.060          50.006
13.04.070          50.006
13.04.080          50.006
13.04.090          50.006
13.04.100          50.008
13.04.110          50.009
13.04.120          50.010
13.04.130          50.010
13.04.140          50.011
13.04.150          50.011
13.04.160          50.012
13.04.170          50.012
13.04.180          50.011
13.04.190          50.013
13.04.200          50.012
13.04.210          50.014
13.04.220          50.015
13.04.230          50.016
13.04.240          50.017
13.04.250          50.018
13.04.260          50.003
13.04.270          50.019
13.04.275          50.020
13.04.276          50.020
13.04.280          50.999
13.04.290          51.001
13.04.300          51.002
13.04.310          51.003
13.04.320          51.003
13.04.330          51.005
13.04.340          51.006
13.04.350          51.003
13.04.360          51.003
13.04.370          51.003
13.04.380          51.003
13.04.390          51.003
13.04.400          51.007
13.04.410          51.008
13.04.420          51.008
13.04.430          51.008
13.04.440          51.008
13.04.450          51.008
13.04.460          51.009
13.04.470          51.009
13.04.480          51.009
13.04.490          51.010
13.04.500          51.010
13.04.510          51.011
13.04.520          51.012
13.04.530          51.013
13.04.540          51.013
13.04.550          51.013
13.04.560          51.013
13.04.570          51.013
13.04.580          51.014
13.04.590          51.015
13.04.600          51.016
13.04.610          51.017
13.04.620          51.018
13.04.630          51.019
13.04.640          51.011
13.04.650          51.011
13.04.660          51.011
13.04.670          51.999
13.14.010          53.002
13.14.020          53.004
13.14.030          53.004
13.14.040          53.006
13.14.050          53.007
13.14.060          53.008
13.14.070          53.008
13.14.080          53.009
13.14.090          53.999
13.14.100          53.001
13.14.110          53.003
13.15.010          53.020
13.15.020          53.021
13.15.030          53.022
13.15.040          53.023
13.15.050          53.024
13.15.060          53.025
13.15.070          53.026
13.15.080          53.027
13.15.090          53.028
13.15.100          53.999
13.16.010          50.035
13.16.020          50.036
13.16.030          50.999
13.18.010          50.050
13.18.020          50.051
13.18.030          50.052
13.18.040          50.053
13.18.050          50.054
13.18.060          50.055
13.18.070          50.056
13.18.080          50.057;
                   50.999
13.18.090          50.058
13.20.010          95.001
13.20.020          95.002
13.20.030          95.003
13.20.040          95.004
13.24.010          54.001
13.24.020          54.002
13.24.030          54.015
13.24.040          54.016
13.24.050          54.017
13.24.060          54.030
13.24.070          54.031
13.24.080          54.032
13.24.090          54.033
13.24.100          54.034
13.24.120          54.035
13.24.121          54.036
13.24.130          54.037
13.24.140          54.038
13.24.150          54.039
13.24.160          54.040
13.24.170          54.040
Ch. 13.24, App. A  54.039
Ch. 13.24, App. B  54.039
13.28.010          52.001
13.28.020          52.002
13.28.030          52.003
13.28.040          52.004
13.28.050          52.005
13.28.060          52.006
13.28.070          52.007
13.28.080          52.008
13.28.090          52.009
13.28.100          52.010
13.28.110          52.011
13.28.120          52.012
13.28.130          52.013
13.28.140          52.014
13.28.150          52.015
13.28.160          52.016
13.28.170          52.017
13.28.180          52.018
13.28.190          52.019
13.28.200          52.020
13.28.210          52.021
13.28.220          52.021
15.03.010          150.001
15.04.010          150.002
15.04.020          150.002
15.05.010          150.003
15.06.010          150.004
15.07.010          150.005
15.12.010          150.006
15.12.020          150.006
15.12.030          150.006
15.12.040          150.006
15.16.010          150.020
15.16.020          150.021
15.16.030          150.022
15.16.040          150.022
15.16.050          150.023
15.16.060          150.024
15.16.070          150.025
15.16.080          150.025
15.16.090          150.025
15.16.100          150.025
15.16.110          150.026
15.16.120          150.027
15.16.130          150.027
15.16.140          150.027
15.16.150          150.028
15.16.160          150.028
15.16.170          150.029
15.16.180          150.030
15.16.190          150.031
15.16.200          150.032
15.16.210          150.999
15.20.010          154.015
15.20.020          154.017
15.20.025          154.016;
                   154.999
15.20.030          154.018
15.20.040          154.019
15.20.050          154.020
15.20.060          154.021
15.20.070          154.022
15.20.080          154.023
15.20.090          154.024
15.20.100          154.025
15.20.110          154.026
15.20.120          154.027
15.20.130          154.028
15.20.140          154.999
15.22.010          154.040
15.22.020          154.041
15.22.030          154.042
15.22.040          154.043
15.22.050          154.044
15.22.060          154.045
15.22.070          154.046
15.24.010          151.001
15.24.020          151.001
15.24.030          151.999
15.28.010          151.002
15.28.020          151.002
15.36.010          154.001
15.36.020          154.002
16.04.020          152.070
16.04.030          152.070
16.04.040          152.070
16.04.050          152.070
16.04.060          153.001
16.04.070          152.070
16.04.080          152.999
16.04.090          153.001
16.04.100          153.001
16.04.110          153.001
16.04.120          152.070
16.04.130          152.070
16.04.140          152.070
16.04.150          153.001
16.04.160          153.001
16.08.010          153.020
16.08.020          153.020
16.08.030          153.020
16.08.040          153.021
16.08.050          153.022
16.08.060          153.022
16.08.070          153.022
16.08.080          153.022
16.08.090          153.023
16.08.100          153.023
16.08.110          153.023
16.08.120          153.023
16.08.130          153.023
16.08.140          153.023
16.08.150          153.024
16.08.155          153.024
16.08.160          153.024
16.08.170          153.024
16.08.180          153.024
16.08.190          153.025
16.08.200          153.025
16.08.210          153.024
16.08.220          153.025
16.08.230          153.026
16.08.240          153.026
16.08.250          153.027
16.08.260          153.028
16.08.270          153.040
16.08.280          153.041
16.08.290          153.042
16.08.300          153.043
16.08.310          153.044
16.08.320          153.044
16.08.330          153.044
16.08.340          153.044
16.08.350          153.044
16.08.360          153.044
16.08.370          153.045
16.08.380          153.045
16.08.390          153.045
16.08.400          153.045
16.08.410          153.045
16.08.420          153.045
16.08.430          153.045
16.08.440          153.046
16.08.450          153.046
16.08.460          153.047
16.08.470          153.047
16.08.480          153.047
16.08.490          153.047
16.08.500          153.047
16.08.510          153.047
16.08.520          153.047
16.08.530          153.047
16.08.540          153.048
16.08.550          153.048
16.08.560          153.048
16.08.570          153.049
16.08.580          153.049
16.08.590          153.049
16.08.600          153.049
16.08.610          153.060
16.08.620          153.061
16.08.630          153.062
16.08.640          153.062
16.08.650          153.063
16.08.660          153.064
16.08.670          153.065
16.08.680          153.066
16.08.690          153.067
16.12.010          153.002
16.12.020          153.003
16.12.030          153.004
16.16.010          153.005;
                   153.999
16.20.010          153.006
16.24.010          153.080
16.24.020          153.081
16.24.030          153.081
16.24.040          153.081
16.24.050          153.082
16.24.060          153.083
16.24.070          153.084
16.24.080          153.085
16.24.090          153.086
16.24.100          153.087
16.24.110          153.088
16.24.120          153.089
16.24.130          153.090
16.24.140          153.091
16.24.150          153.092
16.24.160          153.093
16.28.010          153.105
17.04.010          158.001
17.08.010          158.002
17.08.020          158.002
17.08.030          158.002
17.08.040          158.002
17.08.050          158.002
17.08.060          158.002
17.08.070          158.002
17.08.080          158.002
17.08.090          158.002
17.08.100          158.002
17.08.110          158.002
17.12.010          158.002
17.12.020          158.002
17.12.030          158.003
17.12.040          158.003
17.12.050          158.003
17.12.060          158.003
17.14.010          32.011
17.14.020          32.011
17.14.030          32.011
17.14.040          32.011
17.14.050          32.012
17.14.060          32.012
17.14.070          32.012
                   
 
REFERENCES TO CHARTER ORDINANCES
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Charter Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1                - -         35.001
2                - -         35.001
3                3-29-1965   35.001
4                - -         35.001
5                2-6-1967    35.001
6                9-8-1967    35.001
7                3-1-1968    35.001
8                - -         35.001
9                2-26-1971   35.001
10               - -         35.001
11               7-6-1973    35.001
12               7-2-1975    35.001
13               7-2-1975    35.001
14               10-20-1975  35.001
15               10-20-1975  35.001
16               6-3-1977    35.001
17               7-20-1979   35.001
18               - -         35.001
19               - -         35.001
20               9-27-1988   35.001
21               8-20-1991   35.001
22               - -         35.001
23               1-21-1992   35.001
24               5-18-1999   35.001
25               - -         35.001
26               2-6-2007    35.001
27               2-3-2009    35.001
28               3-2-2010    35.001
29               9-17-2013   35.001
30               12-3-2013   35.001
31               8-18-2020   35.001
35               3-19-2024   95.005
                            
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     90.015—
1750     - -         90.023;
                     90.025—
                     90.027
                     90.001—
1881     - -         90.003;
                     90.999
                     90.001—
1891     - -         90.003;
                     90.999
                     90.001—
1908     - -         90.003;
                     90.999
1962     - -         90.016
2107     - -         111.003
                     90.015—
                     90.018;
2342     - -         90.023;
                     90.028—
                     90.030;
                     90.999
2362     - -         50.007
2532     - -         158.001
2626     - -         113.014
2645     - -         158.001
2665     - -         158.001
2680     - -         10.002—
                     10.009
2701     - -         158.001
2702     - -         158.001
2703     - -         158.001
2738     - -         158.001
2767     - -         158.001
2782     - -         158.001
                     153.020—
                     153.028;
2783     - -         153.040—
                     153.049;
                     153.060—
                     153.067
2847     - -         158.001
2848     - -         158.001
2849     - -         158.001
2850     - -         158.001
2860     - -         158.001
2868     - -         158.001
2885     - -         158.001
2890     - -         158.001
2904     - -         158.001
2919     - -         158.001
2945     - -         158.001
2946     - -         158.001
2950     - -         158.001
2965     - -         158.001
2971     - -         158.001
                     155.030—
644      - -1891     155.033;
                     155.999
798      - -1901     155.018;
                     155.999
                     155.061—
821      - -1902     155.064;
                     155.999
1036     - -1907     155.060
1078     - -1908     130.004;
                     130.999
1080     - -1908     151.001;
                     151.999
1086     - -1909     130.002;
                     130.999
1106     - -1909     72.001;
                     72.002
1282     - -1912     155.002;
                     155.999
1750     - -1924     90.999
                     155.015—
1755     - -1924     155.017;
                     155.999
1800     - -1925     Ch. 73, Schd. II
1944     - -1933     155.001;
                     155.999
                     113.001—
1950     - -1934     113.014;
                     113.999
                     90.045—
1975     - -1936     90.047;
                     90.999
                     111.003;
2081     - -1949     111.004;
                     111.999
                     111.001—
2082     - -1949     111.011;
                     111.999
2115     - -1951     31.003
2131     - -1952     91.001
2164     - -1953     72.003;
                     72.999
                     50.001—
2178     - -1954     50.003;
                     50.005
                     50.006—
2180     - -1954     50.018;
                     50.999
2220     - -1956     Ch. 73, Schd. II
2231     - -1956     130.005
2264     - -1960     11.001
2285     - -1962     Ch. 73, Schd. I
2301     - -1963     151.002
2335     - -1965     31.002
2336     - -1965     31.001
                     71.040—
2357     - -1965     71.048;
                     71.999
2134     - -1966     94.069
                     94.065—
2360     - -1966     94.070;
                     94.999
2365     - -1966     Ch. 73, Schd. I
2407     - -1968     32.001
                     131.001—
2417     - -1969     131.004;
                     131.999
                     93.001—
2454     - -1971     93.006;
                     93.999
2457     - -1971     33.001
                     153.001—
                     153.006;
                     153.020—
                     153.028;
                     153.040—
2458     - -1971     153.049;
                     153.060—
                     153.067;
                     153.080—
                     153.093;
                     153.105;
                     153.999
                     154.015;
                     154.017;
2495     - -1972     154.019—
                     154.028;
                     154.999
                     92.001—
2512     - -1973     92.006;
                     92.999
                     156.001—
2527     - -1974     156.011;
                     156.999
2540     - -1974     70.005
                     111.025—
2550     - -1974     111.028;
                     111.999
2561     - -1975     31.001
                     155.045—
2563     - -1975     155.049;
                     155.999
2568     - -1975     30.015
                     112.001—
2570     - -1975     112.011;
                     112.999
2573     - -1975     50.011
2576     - -1975     111.026
                     94.035—
2584     - -1975     94.044;
                     94.999
2585     - -1975     Ch. 73, Schd. II
2595     - -1975     94.039
2600     - -1976     Ch. 73, Schd. II
2605     - -1976     154.018
2607     - -1976     158.002
2608     - -1976     92.002—
                     92.005
2609     - -1976     50.011
2626     - -1976     113.005;
                     113.006
2629     - -1977     50.019
                     94.002;
2641     - -1977     94.003;
                     94.999
2670     - -1977     32.004
2675     - -1977     Ch. 73, Schd. II
2685     - -1978     31.001
2690     - -1978     10.999
2692     - -1978     50.020
2698     - -1978     10.002—
                     10.009
2711     - -1979     94.066
2712     - -1979     94.035;
                     94.039
2730     - -1979     32.003
2731     - -1979     33.015
2737     - -1979     33.016
2739     - -1979     Ch. 73, Schd. II
2740     - -1979     Ch. 73, Schd. III
2754     - -1980     154.001;
                     154.002
2756     - -1980     Ch. 73, Schd. III;
                     94.999
2758     - -1980     113.006
2761     - -1980     90.018
2765     - -1980     94.042
                     112.025—
2772     - -1980     112.036;
                     112.999
2773     - -1980     111.003
2774     - -1980     32.006
2779     - -1981     158.003
2783     - -1981     153.001
2784     - -1981     110.001—
                     110.008
                     50.035;
2786     - -1981     50.036;
                     50.999
2787     - -1981     Ch. 73, Schd. III
2802     - -1981     94.999
2803     - -1981     150.006
2755     - -1982     150.002
2819     - -1982     Ch. 73, Schd. II
2820     - -1982     95.001—
                     95.004
                     90.001—
2831     - -1982     90.003;
                     90.999
                     116.001—
                     116.006;
2834     - -1982     116.020—
                     116.029;
                     116.999
2835     - -1982     94.039
2836     - -1982     70.002
                     54.001;
                     54.002;
2842     - -1982     54.015—
                     54.017;
                     54.030—
                     54.040
2843     - -1982     150.002;
                     150.006
2856     - -1983     113.004;
                     113.008
2859     - -1983     110.008;
                     110.999
2865     - -1983     32.006
                     113.005;
2873     - -1984     113.006;
                     113.012;
                     113.999
2899     - -1985     110.002
                     113.003;
2900     - -1985     113.006;
                     113.007
2902     - -1985     116.004
                     153.020—
                     153.028;
2906     - -1985     153.040—
                     153.049;
                     153.060—
                     153.067
                     113.001;
2911     - -1985     113.005;
                     113.014;
                     113.999
2924     - -1985     32.007;
                     32.999
2927     - -1985     94.069;
                     94.999
                     94.046—
                     94.048;
2928     - -1985     94.050—
                     94.052;
                     94.999
2941     - -1986     54.034
                     113.001;
2942     - -1986     113.005;
                     113.014
2947     - -1986     94.069
2949     - -1986     153.022;
                     153.024
2951     - -1986     32.007;
                     32.999
2956     - -1987     94.039;
                     94.066
2959     - -1987     90.023
2961     - -1987     33.017
                     150.020—
2962     - -1987     150.032;
                     150.999
2963     - -1987     110.002;
                     110.006
2964     - -1987     54.034
                     51.001—
2968     - -1988     51.019;
                     51.999
2976     - -1988     150.002
2977     - -1988     111.026
                     111.040—
2986     - -1989     111.043;
                     111.999
2989     - -1989     154.040—
                     154.046
2992     - -1989     158.001
3000     - -1990     70.003
3016     - -1990     158.002
3018     - -1990     94.003;
                     94.004
330      - -1991     150.006
3025     - -1991     111.026
3026     - -1991     150.020
3029     - -1991     94.003;
                     94.004
                     94.001;
3037     - -1992     94.003—
                     94.005
3038     - -1992     113.007
3039     - -1992     90.016;
                     90.018
3040     - -1992     71.043
3041     - -1992     155.045
3042     - -1992     156.011
3053     - -1992     150.006
3054     - -1992     94.039
3055     - -1992     94.004;
                     94.066
3056     - -1992     110.006
3057     - -1992     112.029
3058     - -1992     112.004
3059     - -1992     111.026
3061     - -1992     111.041
                     50.050—
3066     - -1993     50.058;
                     50.999
3071     - -1993     111.008;
                     111.999
3073     - -1993     94.001;
                     94.004
3079     - -1993     50.011
3083     - -1993     94.021;
                     94.999
                     114.001—
3085     - -1993     114.004;
                     114.999
3087     - -1994     33.018
3088     - -1994     117.001
3091     - -1994     111.008;
                     111.999
3094     - -1994     153.999
3096     - -1994     Ch. 73, Schd. II
3098     - -1994     34.001—
                     34.004
3100     - -1994     54.034
3106     - -1994     51.013
                     53.020—
3107     - -1994     53.028;
                     53.999
3116     - -1995     154.015
3117     - -1995     150.006
3118     - -1995     150.002
3119     - -1995     150.020
3132     - -1996     31.005
                     91.015—
3133     - -1996     91.021;
                     91.999
3136     - -1996     110.003
3137     - -1996     156.007
                     118.001—
3139     - -1996     118.003;
                     118.999
3140     - -1996     111.027
3143     - -1997     54.034
3144     - -1997     154.015
3145     - -1997     150.020
3146     - -1997     150.006
3147     - -1997     150.002
3156     - -1998     10.001
                     154.040;
3157     - -1998     154.041;
                     154.044—
                     154.046
3172     - -1999     50.013
3175     - -1999     91.002;
                     91.999
3176     - -1999     72.004;
                     72.999
3184     - -2000     158.001
3190     - -2000     54.034
3191     - -2000     52.001—
                     52.021
3208     - -2001     54.034
3213     - -2001     130.003;
                     130.999
3262     - -2003     Ch. 73, Schd. III
3264     - -2004     70.004
3289     - -2005     30.030
3290     - -2005     30.001
3293     - -2005     Ch. 73, Schd. III
3318     - -2006     Ch. 73, Schd. III
3317     - -2007     130.005;
                     130.999
3325     - -2007     94.045;
                     94.999
3326     - -2007     94.068;
                     94.999
3330     - -2007     33.019
3335     - -2008     150.005
3336     - -2008     150.020
3337     - -2008     150.003
3338     - -2008     150.004
3339     - -2008     154.015
3340     - -2008     150.002
3344     - -2008     150.001
3606     - -2022     94.999
3348     8-19-2008   54.034
3358     2-17-2009   150.002
3361     4-21-2009   150.002
3364     7-7-2009    50.012;
                     50.014
                     115.001—
3369     9-15-2009   115.010;
                     115.999
                     132.001—
3370     9-15-2009   132.015;
                     132.999
3374     12-1-2009   54.034
3381     6-15-2010   111.008;
                     111.999
3387     12-21-2010  54.034
3388     12-21-2010  111.041
3403     10-18-2011  50.011
3404     11-15-2011  150.006
3408     2-21-2012   54.034
3411     4-3-2012    91.015
                     157.001—
3415     7-17-2012   157.013;
                     157.999
3419     8-21-2012   71.041;
                     71.043
3421     10-2-2012   94.043;
                     94.999
3422     10-2-2012   94.070;
                     94.999
3424     11-20-2012  54.034
                     133.001—
3431     9-17-2013   133.006;
                     133.999
3433     12-3-2013   54.034
3435     1-7-2014    91.035—
                     91.041
3436     1-21-2014   115.004
3438     5-6-2014    154.018
3441     8-5-2014    70.001
3446     12-16-2014  54.034
3447     12-16-2014  54.036
3449     12-16-2014  115.003
3450     12-16-2014  94.021
3451     1-20-2015   94.041
3462     11-3-2015   32.008
3466     12-15-2015  54.034
3467     12-15-2015  54.036
3469     1-5-2016    30.031—
                     30.033
                     113.003;
3473     4-5-2016    113.004;
                     113.007;
                     113.014
3474     4-19-2016   30.034
3501     5-16-2016   150.006
3480     8-2-2016    70.001
3484     11-15-2016  54.034
3485     11-15-2016  54.036
3488     12-13-2016  91.038
                     155.045;
3489     12-13-2016  155.048;
                     155.999
3495     3-28-2017   158.002
3498     3-28-2017   32.003
3500     5-16-2017   150.002
3502     5-16-2017   150.005
3503     5-16-2017   150.001
3504     5-16-2017   150.003
3505     5-16-2017   154.015
3506     5-16-2017   150.002
3507     5-16-2017   150.004
3508     5-16-2017   150.020
3510     6-6-2017    32.009
3514     7-18-2017   70.001
3515     7-18-2017   32.010
3517     10-3-2017   32.009
                     53.001—
3520     11-21-2017  53.009;
                     53.999
3526     12-5-2017   54.034
3527     12-5-2017   54.036
3535     6-19-2018   32.012
3538     8-21-2018   158.002
3546     12-18-2018  54.034
3547     12-18-2018  54.036
                     118.001—
3548     6-18-2019   118.003;
                     118.999
3552     11-5-2019   54.034
3553     11-5-2019   54.036
3564     8-18-2020   111.027
3565     10-6-2020   32.005
                     90.016;
3567     11-3-2020   90.023;
                     90.024
3568     11-3-2020   Ch. 73, Schd. II
3569     12-1-2020   94.049
3576     4-6-2021    91.038
3585     6-22-2021   154.016;
                     154.999
3590     10-5-2021   70.001
3594     10-19-2021  91.022
3596     11-16-2021  54.034
3597     11-16-2021  54.036
3598     12-7-2021   156.009
3602     2-15-2022   154.016;
                     154.999
3603     3-15-2022   32.005
3606     4-5-2022    94.020
3607     4-5-2022    94.021
3608     5-3-2022    91.038
3619     11-1-2022   Ch. 73, Schd. II
3620     11-15-2022  94.049
3621     12-6-2022   Ch. 73, Schd. III
3622     12-6-2022   Ch. 73, Schd. III
3623     12-6-2022   Ch. 73, Schd. III
3746     5-16-2023   30.001
                     50.070—
3747     7-11-2023   50.072;
                     50.999
3753     8-15-2023   94.021
3760     2-20-2024   32.011
                     71.020—
3761     3-19-2024   71.025;
                     71.999;
                     Ch. 73, Schd. IV
3762     3-19-2024   32.002
3767     6-18-2024   114.015;
                     114.016
                     71.001—
3769     8-20-2024   71.007;
                     71.999
3770     9-3-2024    32.012
                     159.001—
                     159.010;
                     159.025—
                     159.028;
3771     10-15-2024  159.040—
                     159.044;
                     159.055—
                     159.060;
                     159.999
3774     10-15-2024  111.008;
                     111.999
3772     11-5-2024   70.001
3776     11-19-2024  54.036
3777     11-19-2024  50.004
3778     11-19-2024  54.034
3780     1-21-2025   31.020—
                     31.026
3781     6-17-2025   154.016;
                     154.999
                     152.001—
                     152.007;
                     152.020—
                     152.030;
3782     6-17-2025   152.045—
                     152.054;
                     152.065—
                     152.070;
                     152.999
3783     7-1-2025    31.004
3793     1-6-2026    130.001
                     152.020;
3795     3-17-2026   152.048;
                     152.054;
                     152.071
3798     4-7-2026    158.002
 
 
 
