CITY OF NORTH NEWTON, KANSAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 678-25, passed 12-8-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER I: ADMINISTRATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   GOVERNING BODY
      
3.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
4.   PERSONNEL POLICY AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
      
5.   OATHS AND BONDS
      
6.   OPEN RECORDS
      
7.   INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
      
8.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
9.   CITY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-101   Code designated
   
1-102   Definitions
   
1-103   Existing ordinances
   
1-104   Effect of repeal
   
1-105   Catchlines of sections
   
1-106   Parenthetical and reference matter
   
1-107   Amendments; repeal
   
1-108   Ordinances
   
1-109   Same; subject and title; amendment
   
1-110   Same; publication
   
1-111   Same; ordinance book
   
1-112   Resolutions, motions
   
1-113   City records
   
1-114   Altering code
   
1-115   Scope of application
   
1-116   General penalty
   
1-117   Severability
§ 1-101 CODE DESIGNATED.
   The chapters, articles and sections herein shall constitute and be
designated as “The Code of the City of North Newton, Kansas,” and may be so
cited. The code may also be cited as the “North Newton City Code.”
§ 1-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of North Newton, Kansas.
   CODE. The code of the City of North Newton, Kansas.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   COUNTY. The County of Harvey in the State of Kansas.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears requiring or
authorizing the head of a department or officer of the city to do some act or
perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required
act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate
otherwise.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and City Council of the city, or those persons
appointed to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor or the Council as provided
in this code.
   IN THE CITY. Includes all territory in which the city now has, or shall
hereafter acquire, jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other
regulatory powers.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the
plural include the singular.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the word “swear” is
equivalent to the word “affirm.”
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND THE LIKE. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to in this code shall mean officers,
departments, boards, commissions and employees of the city, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include not only the owner of
the whole but any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint tenant of
the whole or a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a firm, partnership, association of persons, corporation,
organization or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal and mixed property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments, and all rights
thereto and interest therein, equitable as well as legal.
   SHALL, MAY. SHALL is mandatory and MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write, when
his or her name is written near such mark, and is witnessed by a person who
writes his or her own name as a witness.
   STATE. The State of Kansas.
   STREET. Includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other
public thoroughfares in the city.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of,
such building or land, whether alone or with others.
   TENSES. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
   WRITING or WRITTEN. May include printing, engraving, lithography and any
other mode of representing words and letters, except those cases where the
written signature or the mark of any person is required by law.
   YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
§ 1-103 EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are in substance the
same as those of ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this
code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 1-104 EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive an ordinance previously
repealed, nor shall such repeal affect any right that has accrued, any duty
imposed, any penalty incurred, or any proceeding commenced under or by virtue
of the ordinance repealed, except as shall be expressly stated therein.
§ 1-105 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the sections of this code printed in capital letters are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of any
section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any
section, including its catchline, is amended or reenacted.
§ 1-106 PARENTHETICAL AND REFERENCE MATTER.
   The matter in parentheses at the ends of sections is only for information
purposes and is not a part of the code. Citations indicate only the source, and
the text may or may not be changed by this code. This code is a new enactment
under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-3014 and 12-3015. Reference matter not in
parentheses is only for information purposes and is not a part of this code.
§ 1-107 AMENDMENTS; REPEAL.
   Any portion of this code may be amended by specific reference to the section
number as follows: “Section _____ of the code of the City of North Newton is
hereby amended to read as follows: ...(the new provisions shall then be set out
in full).” A new section not heretofore existing in the code may be added as
follows: “The code of the City of North Newton is hereby amended by adding a
section (or article or chapter) which reads as follows: ...(the new provisions
shall be set out in full).” All sections, or articles, or chapters to be
repealed shall be repealed by specific reference as follows: “Section (or
article or chapter) __________ of the code of the City of North Newton is
hereby repealed.”
§ 1-108 ORDINANCES.
   The governing body shall have the care, management and control of the city
and its finances, and shall pass all ordinances needed for the welfare of the
city. All ordinances shall be valid when a majority of all the members-elect of
the City Council shall vote in favor. Where the number of favorable votes is
one less than required, the Mayor shall have power to cast the deciding vote in
favor of the ordinance.
(K.S.A. 12-3002)
§ 1-109 SAME; SUBJECT AND TITLE; AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall contain more than one subject, which shall be clearly
expressed in its title; and no section or sections of an ordinance shall be
amended unless the amending ordinance contains the entire section or sections
as amended and the section or sections amended shall be repealed.
§ 1-110 SAME; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   No ordinance, except those appropriating money, shall be in force
until published in the official city newspaper by the City Clerk. One
publication of any such ordinance shall be sufficient unless additional
publications are required by statute or ordinance. The publisher of the
newspaper shall prefix such published ordinance by a line in brackets stating
the month, day and year of such publication.
   (b)   In lieu of division (a), the city may opt to publish a summary of an
ordinance so long as:
      (1)   The publication is identified as a “summary” and contains notice
that the complete text of the ordinance may be obtained or viewed free of
charge at the office of the City Clerk;
      (2)   The City Attorney certifies the summary of the ordinance prior to
publication to ensure that the summary is legally accurate and sufficient; and
      (3)   The publication contains the city’s official website address where
a reproduction of the original ordinance is available for a minimum of one week
following the summary publication in the newspaper.
   (c)   If an ordinance is subject to petition pursuant to state law, then the
summary shall contain a statement that the ordinance is subject to petition.
(K.S.A. 12-3007)
§ 1-111 SAME; ORDINANCE BOOK.
   (a)   Following final passage and approval of each ordinance, the City Clerk
shall enter the same in the ordinance book of the city as provided by law.
   (b)   Each ordinance shall have appended thereto the manner in which the
ordinance was passed, the date of passage, the page of the journal containing
the record of the final vote on its passage, the name of the newspaper in which
published and the date of publication.
(K.S.A. 12-3008)
§ 1-112 RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS.
   Except where a state statute or city ordinance specifically requires
otherwise, all resolutions and motions shall be passed if voted upon favorably
by a majority present at a meeting of the City Council.
§ 1-113 CITY RECORDS.
   The City Clerk or any other officer or employee having custody of city
records and documents shall maintain such records and documents in accordance
with K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121, inclusive, which is incorporated by reference
herein as if set out in full, and as provided in the State Open Records Act and
the city policy regarding open public records.
(K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121)
§ 1-114 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend
by additions or deletions any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby. This restriction shall not apply to amendments or revisions of this
code authorized by ordinance duly adopted by the governing body.
§ 1-115 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   Any person convicted of doing any of the acts or things prohibited or made
unlawful, or the failing to do any of the things commanded to be done, as
specified and set forth in this code shall be deemed in violation of this code
and punished in accordance with §
1-116. Each day any violation of this code continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
§ 1-116 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever any offense is declared by any provision of this code, absent a
specific or unique punishment prescribed, the offender shall be punished in
accordance with this section:
   (a)   A fine of not more than $1,000;
   (b)   Imprisonment in jail for not more than 179 days; or
   (c)   Both such fine and imprisonment, not to exceed divisions (a) and (b)
above.
§ 1-117 SEVERABILITY.
   If for any reason any chapter, article, section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this code, or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is declared to be unconstitutional or invalid or unenforceable,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
code.
ARTICLE 2: GOVERNING BODY
Section
   
1-201   Governing body
   
1-202   Same; powers generally
   
1-203   Same; meetings
   
1-204   Same; quorum
   
1-205   Powers of the Mayor
   
1-206   President of the Council
   
1-207   Administrative powers
   
1-208   Vacancies in governing body; how filled
   
1-209   Compensation
   
1-210   Expenses
§ 1-201 GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body shall consist of a Mayor and five Council members, to be
elected as set out in
Ch. VI of this code.
§ 1-202 SAME; POWERS GENERALLY.
   All powers exercised by cities of the third class, or which shall hereafter
be conferred upon them, shall be exercised by the governing body, subject to
such limitations as prescribed by law. All executive and administrative
authority granted or limited by law shall be vested in the Mayor and Council as
governing body of the city or in the City Administrator as set out in C.O. No.
12-07, passed 10-15-2007.
(K.S.A. 12-103)
§ 1-203 SAME; MEETINGS.
   The Mayor and Council members shall have regular meetings of the Council the
second Monday of each and every month at 7:00 p.m. at North Newton City Hall,
2601 North Main Street, North Newton, Kansas. If the second Monday of the month
conflicts with the Annual Conference of the League of Kansas Municipalities, or
the observation of a city holiday, said regular meeting for that particular
month shall be held on the third Monday of the month. Special meetings may be
called by the Mayor or Acting Mayor, on the written request of any three
members of the Council.
(Ord. 544-10, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 1-204 SAME; QUORUM.
   A majority of the Council members elected shall constitute a quorum to do
business, but a minority may adjourn from day to day until a quorum is in
attendance.
(Ord. 544-10, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 1-205 POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   (a)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the governing body. The
Mayor shall have the tie-breaking vote on all questions when the members
present are equally divided.
   (b)   The Mayor shall:
      (1)   Have the superintending control of all officers and affairs of the
city, except as such control is granted to the City Administrator per C.O. No.
12-07, passed 10-15-2007;
      (2)   Take care that the ordinances of the city are complied with;
      (3)   Sign the commissions and appointments of all officers elected or
appointed;
      (4)   Endorse the approval of the governing body on all official bonds;
      (5)   From time to time communicate to the City Council such information
and recommend such measures as he or she may deem advisable;
      (6)   Have the power to approve or veto any ordinance as the laws of the
state shall prescribe; and
      (7)   Sign all orders and drafts drawn upon the City Treasury for money.
§ 1-206 PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body as President of the
Council. The President of the Council shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of both the Mayor and the
President of the Council, the Council shall elect one of its members as “Acting
President of the Council.” The President and Acting President, when occupying
the place of Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other Council members but
shall exercise no veto.
(K.S.A. 15-310)
§ 1-207 ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS.
   (a)   The governing body may designate whether the administration of a
policy or the carrying out of any order shall be performed by a committee, an
appointive officer or the Mayor.
   (b)   If no administrative authority is designated, it shall be vested in
the Mayor.
§ 1-208 VACANCIES IN GOVERNING BODY; HOW FILLED.
   (a)   Subject to the provisions of K.S.A. 12-16,128, and amendments thereto,
in case of a vacancy in the Council occurring by reason of resignation, death
or removal from office or from the city, the Mayor, by and with the advice and
consent of the remaining Council members, shall appoint an elector to fill the
vacancy until the next election for that office. In case any person elected as
a Council member neglects or refuses to qualify within 30 days after election,
the Council member shall be deemed to have refused to accept the office and a
vacancy shall exist. Subject to the provisions of K.S.A. 12-16,128, and
amendments thereto, the Mayor may, with the consent of the remaining Council
members, appoint a suitable elector to fill the vacancy.
   (b)   In case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, the President of the
Council shall become Mayor until the next regular election for that office and
a vacancy shall occur in the office of the Council member becoming Mayor.
(K.S.A. 15-201)
§ 1-209 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the governing body shall receive as compensation such amounts as
may be fixed by ordinance.
§ 1-210 EXPENSES.
   Each member of the governing body shall receive for his or her services, and
as reimbursement for his or her expenses, compensation as follows:
   (a)   Mileage at the same rate as is established by law by the state for
state employees, for each mile traveled by the shortest route, upon the
performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Council; and
   (b)   Reimbursement for actual food and lodging expenses upon the
performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Council, provided such
expenses shall be documented by proper receipts.
ARTICLE 3: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
1-301   Appointment
   
1-302   Employees
   
1-303   Removal
   
1-304   Vacancy in office
   
1-305   City Administrator
   
1-306   Same; powers, duties and responsibilities
   
1-307   Same; compensation
   
1-308   Same; orders and reports
   
1-309   City Clerk
   
1-310   Same; fiscal records
   
1-311   Same; seal; oaths
   
1-312   Same; withholding agents
   
1-313   Deputy City Clerk
   
1-314   City Treasurer
   
1-315   City Attorney; office; duties
   
1-316   City Prosecutor; office; duties
   
1-317   Reserved
   
1-318   Appointment or employment in more than one position
   
1-319   Conflict of interest
§ 1-301 APPOINTMENT.
   (a)   At the first regular meeting in May of each year, the City
Administrator, by and with the consent of the Council, shall appoint a City
Clerk and City Treasurer, and may appoint a City Attorney, Municipal Judge,
Chief of Police and such other officers as may be deemed necessary for the best
interest of the city. Such officers shall hold their respective offices until
their successors have been appointed and qualified. All such appointments shall
be entered on the journal of proceedings of the governing body.
   (b)   The duties and salaries of all appointed officers shall be regulated
by adopted personnel policies.
(C.O. No. 12-07, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 1-302 EMPLOYEES.
   The City Administrator shall have authority to hire all other employees, or
such authority may be delegated to the respective department heads.
§ 1-303 REMOVAL.
   (a)   A majority of all members-elect of the Council may remove any
appointed officer.
   (b)   The City Administrator may suspend at any time any appointed officer.
   (c)   Employees, other than appointed officers, may be removed by the Mayor
upon recommendation of the respective department heads.
§ 1-304 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs in any appointive office for whatever reason, the
vacancy shall be filled by the governing body. Any person appointed to fill
such vacancy shall serve only until the next regular time for appointment.
§ 1-305 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   There is hereby created and established the Office of City
Administrator. Said City Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor by and
with the consent of the City Council, and he or she shall hold his or her
office for a term of three years. A majority of the members of the City Council
may remove said officer for a good cause.
   (b)   The City Administrator shall be appointed on the basis of his or her
qualifications and his or her ability, and need not be a resident of the city.
   (c)   The same person may hold the Office of City Clerk and the Office of
City Administrator.
   (d)   Said office is on a half-time basis, and the same person may hold an
additional half-time basis office not just as city administrator with another
city, but any additional half-time basis job that would not otherwise be in
conflict with his or her position as City Administrator for the City of North
Newton.
(Ord. 316, passed 10-12-1987; Ord. 321, passed 2-8-1988)
§ 1-306 SAME; POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law or the ordinances of the city, the City
Administrator shall:
   (a)   Manage, direct, control and supervise all the administrative
departments and services of the city;
   (b)   Make appointments regarding hiring all appointive officers and
employees;
   (c)   Supervise, direct and assign the duties of all appointive officers and
employees;
   (d)   Be responsible for the preparation and submittance of the annual
budget of the governing body and keep it fully, completely and timely advised
as to the financial condition of the city;
   (e)   Exercise general supervision and control over all city purchases and
expenditures in accordance with the budget and such policies as may be
established by the governing body;
   (f)   Recommend to the governing body a schedule of salaries for all
officers and employees;
   (g)   Have the care and management of all city-owned land, property,
buildings and equipment;
   (h)   Develop and prepare such planning, short-range as well as long-range,
as the governing body shall request and shall submit such planning to the
governing body for action;
   (i)   Attend all meetings of the governing body and such other meetings of
commissions and other organizations as the governing body shall designate, and
shall regularly report on the status of the city and its services to the
governing body;
   (j)   Make such recommendations to the governing body as are deemed
necessary for effective administration of all city services;
   (k)   Be responsible for the proper and efficient discharge of the duties of
all city administration officers and employees; and
   (l)   Perform such other duties as the governing body may direct.
(Ord. 316, passed 10-12-1987)
§ 1-307 SAME; COMPENSATION.
   The city shall pay to the City Administrator during his or her employment,
for services rendered, an annual salary as set by contract. The city shall also
provide health insurance, the costs for which shall be shared as described in
Ord. 321. The city shall provide for five days of vacation in addition to
vacation benefits described in the Personnel Policy Manual. Other benefits
shall be provided as described in the Personnel Policy Manual. Said salary
shall be payable in installments at the same time as other employees of the
city are paid.
(Ord. 410, passed 11-11-1996)
§ 1-308 SAME; ORDERS AND REPORTS.
   It shall be the general practice of the governing body to issue all orders
and directives to all city officers and departments and receive reports and
communications therefrom through the office of Director of Administration.
(Ord. 316, passed 10-12-1987)
§ 1-309 CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Be custodian of all city records, books, files, papers, documents and
other personal effects belonging to the city and not properly pertaining to any
other office;
   (b)   Carry on all official correspondence of the city;
   (c)   Attend and keep a record of the proceedings of all regular and special
meetings of the governing body;
   (d)   Enter every appointment of office and the date thereof in the journal;
   (e)   Enter or place each ordinance of the city in the ordinance books after
its passage; and
   (f)   Publish all ordinances, except those appropriating money, and such
resolutions, notices and proclamations as may be required by law or ordinance.
§ 1-310 SAME; FISCAL RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Prepare and keep suitable fiscal records according to generally
accepted accounting principles;
   (b)   Assist in preparing the annual budget;
   (c)   Audit all claims against the city for goods or services rendered for
the consideration of the governing body. His or her accounts shall properly
show the amounts paid from any fund of the city and the cash balance existing
in each fund;
   (d)   Keep an accurate account of all bonds issued by the city; and
   (e)   Keep a record of all special assessments.
§ 1-311 SAME; SEAL; OATHS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Have custody of the corporate seal of the city and shall affix the
same to the official copy of all ordinances, contracts and other documents
required to be authenticated;
   (b)   Have power to administer oaths for all purposes pertaining to the
business and affairs of the city; and
   (c)   Keep suitable files of all such oaths required to be deposited in his
or her office.
§ 1-312 SAME; WITHHOLDING AGENTS.
   The City Clerk is designated as the withholding agent of the city for the
purposes of the Federal Revenue (Income) Act, and shall perform the duties
required of withholding agents by said Act or any other act requiring
withholding from the compensation of any city officer or employee. The Clerk
shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing body or
the state statutes.
§ 1-313 DEPUTY CITY CLERK.
   (a)   The Office of Deputy City Clerk is hereby established. The City
Administrator shall appoint, by and with the consent of the City Council, the
Deputy City Clerk. The person so appointed and confirmed shall hold the office
for a term of one year and until a successor is appointed and confirmed.
   (b)   The Deputy City Clerk shall perform those duties assigned to that
office by the City Clerk.
   (c)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the position of City Clerk and the city
is without a person appointed, confirmed or qualified to hold that office, the
Deputy City Clerk shall become the acting City Clerk and fulfill the duties of
that office.
   (d)   Compensation of the Deputy City Clerk shall be regulated by adopted
personnel policies.
§ 1-314 CITY TREASURER.
   The City Treasurer shall:
   (a)   Keep a full and accurate record of all money received and paid out in
a ledger book provided by the governing body;
   (b)   Publish an annual financial statement;
   (c)   Deposit all public monies and sign all checks of the city;
   (d)   Pay out city funds only upon orders or warrants properly signed by the
Mayor and City Clerk; and
   (e)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing body
or the state statutes.
(K.S.A. 10-803, 10-804, 12-1608)
§ 1-315 CITY ATTORNEY; OFFICE; DUTIES.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Office of City Attorney. No person
shall be eligible for the Office of City Attorney who is not an attorney at law
admitted to practice in the Supreme Court of the state. The City Attorney shall
be charged with the general direction and supervision of the legal affairs of
the city.
   (b)   The City Attorney shall:
      (1)   Attend meetings of the City Council when so directed to attend by
the Council;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor and City Council and all officers of the city upon
such legal questions affecting the city and its offices as may be submitted to
him or her;
      (3)   When requested by the City Council, give opinions in writing upon
any such questions;
      (4)   Draft such ordinances, contracts, leases, easements, conveyances
and other instruments in writing as may be submitted to him or her in the
regular transaction of affairs of the city;
      (5)   Approve all ordinances of the city as to form and legality;
      (6)   Attend Planning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals meetings
when so directed by the Boards;
      (7)   Appear and prosecute all violations of city ordinances in Municipal
Court when his or her services shall be required; and
      (8)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body and the state statutes.
§ 1-316 CITY PROSECUTOR; OFFICE; DUTIES.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Office of City Prosecutor. No person
shall be eligible for the Office of City Prosecutor who is not an attorney at
law admitted to practice law in the state. The City Prosecutor shall:
      (1)   Attend meetings of the governing body when so directed to attend by
the Mayor or City Attorney;
      (2)   Advise the City Council and all officers of the city upon legal
questions affecting the city and its officers as may be submitted to him or
her;
      (3)   Draft such ordinances and other instruments in writing as may be
submitted to him or her in the regular transactions of the affairs of the city;
      (4)   Appear and prosecute all violations of city ordinances in Municipal
Court; and
      (5)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body and the state statutes.
   (b)   The City Administrator may appoint a City Prosecutor in accordance
with §
1-301. In the event that there is no City Prosecutor, the City Attorney shall
serve in such capacity.
§ 1-317 RESERVED.
§ 1-318 APPOINTMENT OR EMPLOYMENT IN MORE THAN ONE POSITION.
   The same person may be appointed to more than one appointive office, or
employed in more than one department, except that the same person shall not be
appointed to incompatible offices. Salaries or wages of such persons shall be
prorated between the proper funds of the several offices or departments.
§ 1-319 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   All city officers and employees shall comply with the requirements of K.S.A.
75-4301a et seq. concerning governmental ethics and refrain from making or
participating in the making of a contract when prohibited by state law.
ARTICLE 4: PERSONNEL POLICY AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Section
   
1-401   Personnel policies and guidelines
§ 1-401 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND GUIDELINES.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing
employee personnel rules and regulations the document entitled “Uniform
Personnel Policies and Guidelines for the City of North Newton.” One copy of
said document shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as adopted by the Code
of the City of North Newton,” and to which there shall be attached a copy of
this section. Said official copy shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall
be open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours. All
departments of the city shall be supplied with copies of such rules and
regulations as may be deemed necessary.
ARTICLE 5: OATHS AND BONDS
Section
   
1-501   Oath; affirmation
   
1-502   Oaths filed
   
1-503   Bonds required
   
1-504   Same; premiums
   
1-505   Condition of bonds
   
1-506   Approval of bonds
§ 1-501 OATH; AFFIRMATION.
   All officers and employees of the city, whether elected or appointed, either
under the laws of the state or ordinances of the city, shall, before entering
upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe an oath or
affirmation as follows.
   (a)   Oath. “I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will
support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of __________ (here enter name of
office or position). So help me God.”
   (b)   Affirmation. “I do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of
Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of ___________ (enter name of office
or position). This I do under the pains and penalties of perjury.”
(K.S.A. 54-104, 54-106, 75-4308)
§ 1-502 OATHS FILED.
   All officers and employees required to take and subscribe or sign an oath or
affirmation shall be supplied the forms for the purpose at the expense of the
city, and upon taking and subscribing or signing any such oath or affirmation,
the same shall be filed by the City Clerk.
§ 1-503 BONDS REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   The following city officers shall each, before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, give a good and sufficient corporate surety bond
to the city.
      (2)   The bond shall be in the following amount, to wit:
         (A)   City Treasurer: $10,000;
         (B)   City Clerk: $10,000;
         (C)   Clerk of Municipal Court: $1,000; and
         (D)   Judge of Municipal Court: $1,000.
   (b)   The governing body may provide for the coverage by blanket bond of
such officers and employees and in such amounts as the governing body may, by
resolution, designate.
§ 1-504 SAME; PREMIUMS.
   All premiums on surety bonds shall be paid by the city.
(K.S.A. 78-111)
§ 1-505 CONDITION OF BONDS.
   Each of the bonds required in §
1-503 shall be conditioned for the faithful performance of duty and all acts
required by the laws of the state and of the city, and for the application and
payment over to the proper persons of all monies or property coming into the
hands of each such officer by virtue of his or her office.
§ 1-506 APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   All bonds given to the city shall be approved as to their form by the City
Attorney and as to surety and sufficiency by the governing body, unless
otherwise provided by the laws of the state.
ARTICLE 6: OPEN RECORDS
Section
   
1-601   Policy
   
1-602   Record custodians
   
1-603   Local Freedom of Information Officers
   
1-604   Public request for access
   
1-605   Facilities for public inspection
   
1-606   Procedures for inspection
   
1-607   Appointment of official custodians
   
1-608   Appointment of Local Freedom of Information Officer
   
1-609   Designation of additional record custodians
   
1-610   Requests to be directed to custodians
   
1-611   Fee administration
   
1-612   Inspection fee
   
1-613   Payment
§ 1-601 POLICY.
   (a)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that all public
records which are made, maintained or kept by or are in the possession of the
city, its officers and employees shall be open for public inspection as
provided by, and subject to the restrictions imposed by, the State Open Records
Act.
   (b)   Any person, upon request, shall have access to such open public
records for the purpose of inspecting, abstracting or copying such records
while they are in the possession, custody and control of the appointed or
designated record custodian thereof, or his or her designated representative.
§ 1-602 RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All city officers and employees appointed or designated as record
custodians under this article shall: protect public records from damage and
disorganization; prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the
city; provide assistance and information upon request; ensure efficient and
timely action and response to all applications for inspection of public
records; and shall carry out the procedures adopted by this city for inspecting
and copying open public records.
   (b)   The official custodian shall prominently display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public a brochure in the form prescribed by the
Local Freedom of Information Officer that contains basic information about the
rights of a requester, the responsibilities of a public agency and the
procedures for inspecting or obtaining a copy of public records under the State
Open Records Act. The official custodian shall display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public the brochure at one or more places in
the administrative offices of the city where it is available to members of the
public who request public information in person.
§ 1-603 LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICERS.
   The Local Freedom of Information Officer shall:
   (a)   Prepare and provide educational materials and information concerning
the State Open Records Act;
   (b)   Be available to assist the city and members of the general public to
resolve disputes relating to the State Open Records Act;
   (c)   Respond to inquiries relating to the State Open Records Act; and
   (d)   Establish the requirements for the content, size, shape and other
physical characteristics of a brochure required to be displayed or distributed
or otherwise made available to the public under the State Open Records Act. In
establishing such requirements for the content of the brochure, the Local
Freedom of Information Officer shall include plainly written basic information
about the rights of a requester, the responsibilities of the city and the
procedures for inspecting and obtaining a copy of public records under the Act.
§ 1-604 PUBLIC REQUEST FOR ACCESS.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall establish
office hours during which any person may make a request for access to an open
public record. Such hours shall be no fewer than the hours each business day
the office is regularly open to the public. For any city office not open Monday
through Friday, hours shall be established by the record custodian for each
such day at which time any person may request access to an open public record.
§ 1-605 FACILITIES FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall provide
suitable facilities to be used by any person desiring to inspect and/or copy an
open public record. The office of the City Clerk, being the principal record-
keeper of the city, shall be used as the principal office for providing access
to and providing copies of open records to the maximum extent practicable.
Requesters of records shall be referred to the office of the City Clerk except
when the requested records are not in that office and are available in another
city office.
§ 1-606 PROCEDURES FOR INSPECTION.
   Any person requesting access to an open public record for purposes of
inspecting or copying such record, or obtaining a copy thereof, shall abide by
the procedures adopted by the governing body for record inspection and copying,
including those procedures established by record custodians as authorized by
the governing body. Such procedures shall be posted in each city office keeping
and maintaining open public records.
§ 1-607 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIAL CUSTODIANS.
   The following city officers are hereby appointed as official custodians for
purposes of the State Open Records Act and are hereby charged with
responsibility for compliance with that Act with respect to the hereinafter-
listed public records:
   (a)   City Clerk. All public records kept and maintained in the City Clerk’s
office and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in this section;
   (b)   City Treasurer. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Treasurer’s office;
   (c)   Chief of Police. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Police Department;
   (d)   Fire Chief. All public records not on file in the office of the City
Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Fire Department;
   (e)   City Attorney. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Attorney’s office; and
   (f)   Clerk of the Municipal Court. All public records not on file in the
office of the City Clerk and kept and maintained in the Municipal Court.
§ 1-608 APPOINTMENT OF LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICER.
   The City Clerk is hereby appointed as the Local Freedom of Information
Officer and charged with all of the duties as set forth in §
1-603.
§ 1-609 DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   Each of the official custodians appointed in §
1-607 is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate officers or employees
to serve as record custodian. Such record custodians shall have such duties and
powers as are set out in the State Open Records Act.
   (b)   Whenever an official custodian shall appoint another person as a
record custodian, he or she shall notify the City Clerk of such designation and
the City Clerk shall maintain a register of all such designations.
§ 1-610 REQUESTS TO BE DIRECTED TO CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a
public record in accordance with the provisions of the State Open Records Act,
shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility for
the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
   (b)   Whenever any city officer or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this article is presented with a request for access to, or copy
of, a public record which record the custodian does not have in his or her
possession and for which he or she has not been given responsibility to keep
and maintain, the custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record.
Further, the person making the request shall be informed as to which custodian
the request should be addressed to, if such is known by the custodian receiving
the request.
§ 1-611 FEE ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to provide the Clerk’s office, and the
office of each record custodian, with sufficient cash to enable the making of
change for record fee purposes. Each custodian shall transmit all record fee
monies collected to the City Treasurer not less than monthly. Each custodian
shall maintain duplicates of all records and copy request forms, completed as
to the amount of fee charged and collected, which amounts shall be periodically
audited by the Clerk-Finance Officer and Treasurer of the city.
§ 1-612 INSPECTION FEE.
   (a)   Where a request has been made for inspection of any open public record
which is readily available to the record custodian, there shall be no
inspection fee charged to the requester.
   (b)   In all cases not covered by division (a) above, a record inspection
fee shall be charged at a rate per hour as set by City Council pursuant to
state statute per employee engaged in the record search.
(Ord. 258, passed 1-9-1984)
§ 1-613 PAYMENT.
   All fees charged under this article shall be paid to the custodian of the
records inspected and/or copied unless the requester has established an
account, for purposes of billing and payment, with the city. All fees received
shall be paid to the City Treasurer whenever the amount of fees collected
totals $10, but not less than monthly.
(Ord. 258, passed 1-9-1984)
ARTICLE 7: INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
Section
   
1-701   Purpose and goals
   
1-702   Active funds; designation of depositories; eligible depositories
   
1-703   Definitions
   
1-704   Investment of idle funds
   
1-705   Procedures and restrictions
   
1-706   Custody and safekeeping
   
1-707   Sale or transfer
   
1-708   Interest on time deposits
§ 1-701 PURPOSE AND GOALS.
   (a)   It is the purpose of this statement to set forth the public policies
of the city relating to the investment of public monies and establish
procedural requirements as to investment management practice.
   (b)   The objective of the investment policy and program of the city shall
be as follows.
      (1)   The safeguarding of all public monies shall be of the highest
priority. Public money shall not be invested or managed in any matter which
would jeopardize the safety of the principal.
      (2)   Consistent with the requirement of safety, the objective of the
investment program shall be to aggressively manage and invest all public monies
to maximize net earnings, consistent with the public responsibility to secure
the maximum, safe investment return possible from monies assigned to its
stewardship, to relieve demands on the property tax and to otherwise reduce the
cost of public services.
§ 1-702 ACTIVE FUNDS; DESIGNATION OF DEPOSITORIES; ELIGIBLE DEPOSITORIES.
   (a)   The governing body shall designate the banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks which shall serve as depositories of its funds.
The Clerk, Treasurer or other city officer or employee having the custody of
city funds shall deposit such funds only at the designated banks, savings and
loan associations and savings banks. Only banks, savings and loan associations
and savings banks that have main or branch offices in Harvey County shall be
designated as official depositories. No such bank, savings bank or savings and
loan association shall be designated as a depository until the city is assured
that it can obtain satisfactory security for its deposits.
   (b)   The Clerk, Treasurer or other city officer or employee depositing
public funds shall deposit all such public funds coming into such person’s
possession in his, her or their name and official title as such officer. If the
governing body fails to designate an official depository or depositories, the
officer thereof having custody of city funds shall deposit such funds with one
or more banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks which have main
or branch offices in the county if satisfactory security can be obtained
therefor, and if not, then elsewhere. In such event, the officer or employee
shall serve notice in writing on the governing body showing the names and
locations of such banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks where
such funds are deposited, and upon so doing, the officer or employee having
custody of such funds shall not be liable for the loss of any portion thereof
except for official misconduct or for the misappropriation of such funds by the
officer or employee.
   (c)   If eligible banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks
under divisions (a) or (b) above cannot or will not provide an acceptable bid,
which shall include services for the depositing of public funds under this
section, then banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks that have
main or branch offices in any immediately adjoining county may receive deposits
of the city’s active funds, if such banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks have been designated as official depositories under division (a)
above and the city can obtain satisfactory security therefor.
§ 1-703 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANK. Any bank incorporated under the laws of the state or any other state,
or organized under the laws of the United States, and which has a main or
branch office in the state.
   BRANCH. Any office within this state, other than the main office, that is
approved by a federal or state supervisory agency at which deposits are
received, checks paid or money lent. BRANCH does not include an automated
teller machine, remote service unit or similar device or a loan production
office.
   INVESTMENT RATE. A rate which is the equivalent yield for United States
government securities having a maturity date as published in the “Wall Street
Journal,” nearest the maturity date for equivalent maturities. The zero- to 90-
day rate shall be computed on the average effective federal funds rate as
published by the Federal Reserve System for the previous week.
   MAIN OFFICE. The place of business specified in the articles of association,
certificate of authority or similar document, where the business of the
institution is carried on and which is not a branch.
   SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION. Any savings and loan association incorporated
under the laws of the state or any other state, or organized under the laws of
the United States, and which has a main or branch office in the state.
   SAVINGS BANK. Any savings bank organized under the laws of the United States
and which has a main or branch office in the state.
(K.S.A. 12-1675a)
§ 1-704 INVESTMENT OF IDLE FUNDS.
   Temporarily idle monies of the city, not currently needed, may in accordance
with the procedure hereinafter described be invested:
   (a)   In temporary notes or no-fund warrants issued by the city;
   (b)   In savings deposits, demand deposits, time deposits, open accounts,
certificates of deposit or time certificates of deposit with maturities of not
more than two years:
      (1)   In banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks which
have main or branch offices located in the city; or
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank is located in the city, then in banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks which have main or branch offices in the county
or counties in which all or part of the city is located.
   (c)   In repurchase agreements with:
      (1)   Banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks which have
main or branch offices located in the city, for direct obligations of, or
obligations that are insured as to principal and interest by, the United States
government or any agency thereof;
      (2)   If no such bank, savings and loan association or savings bank
having a main or branch office located in the city is willing to enter into
such an agreement with the city at an interest rate equal to or greater than
the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto,
then such repurchase agreements may be entered into with banks, savings and
loan associations or savings banks which have main or branch offices in the
county or counties in which all or part of the city is located; or
      (3)   If no bank, savings and loan association or savings bank having a
main or branch office in such county or counties is willing to enter into such
an agreement with the city at an interest rate equal to or greater than the
investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, then
such repurchase agreements may be entered into with banks, savings and loan
associations or savings banks located within the state.
   (d)   In direct obligations of or obligations that are insured as to
principal and interest by the United States or any agency thereof, not
including mortgage-backed securities with maturities as the governing body
shall determine, but not exceeding two years. Such investment transactions
shall only be conducted with banks, savings and loan associations and savings
banks; the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Missouri; or with primary
government securities dealers which report to the Market Report Division of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or any broker-dealer engaged in the business
of selling government securities which is registered in compliance with the
requirements of §§ 15 or 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
registered pursuant to K.S.A. 17-12a401, and amendments thereto;
   (e)   In the Municipal Investment Pool Fund established in K.S.A. 12-1677a,
and amendments thereto;
   (f)   In the investments authorized and in accordance with the conditions
prescribed in K.S.A. 12-1677b, and amendments thereto;
   (g)   In multiple municipal client investment pools managed by the trust
departments of banks which have main or branch offices located in county or
counties where the city is located or with trust companies incorporated under
the laws of this state which have contracted to provide trust services under
the provisions of K.S.A. 9-2107, and amendments thereto, with banks which have
main or branch offices located in the county or counties in which the city is
located. Public monies invested under this division (g) shall be secured in the
same manner as provided for under K.S.A. 9-1402, and amendments thereto. Pooled
investments of public monies made by trust departments under this division (g)
shall be subject to the same terms, conditions and limitations as are
applicable to the municipal investment pool established by K.S.A. 12-1677a, and
amendments thereto;
   (h)   Municipal bonds or other obligations issued by any municipality of the
state as defined in K.S.A. 10-1101, and amendments thereto, which are general
obligations of the municipality issuing the same;
   (i)   The investments authorized in divisions (d), (e), (f), (g) or (h)
above shall be utilized only if the banks, savings and loan associations and
savings banks eligible for investments authorized in division (b) above, cannot
or will not make the investments authorized in division (b) above available to
the city at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as
defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto; or
   (j)   In selecting a depository pursuant to division (b) above, if a bank,
savings and loan association or savings bank eligible for an investment deposit
thereunder has an office located in the city and such financial institution
will make such deposits available to the city at interest rates equal to or
greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and
amendments thereto, and such financial institution otherwise qualifies for such
deposit, the governing body shall select one or more of such eligible financial
institutions for deposit of funds pursuant to this section. If no such
financial institution qualifies for such deposits, the city shall select for
such deposits one or more eligible banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks which have offices in the county or counties in which all or a
part of the city is located which will make such deposits available to the city
at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in
K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, and which otherwise qualify for
such deposits.
(K.S.A. 12-1675)
§ 1-705 PROCEDURES AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   The City Clerk shall periodically report to the governing body as to
the amount of money available for investment and the period of time such
amounts will be available for investment, and shall submit such recommendations
as deemed necessary for the efficient and safe management of city finances.
   (b)   The recommendations of the City Clerk shall provide for an investment
program which shall so limit the amounts invested and shall schedule the
maturities of investments so that the city will, at all times, have sufficient
monies available on demand deposit to assure prompt payment of all city
obligations.
§ 1-706 CUSTODY AND SAFEKEEPING.
   Securities purchased pursuant to this article shall be under the care of the
Mayor, City Clerk and City Treasurer and shall be held in the custody of a
state or national bank or trust company, or shall be kept by such officers in a
safety deposit box of the city in a bank or trust company. Securities in the
original or receipt form held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall
be held in the name of the city, and their redemption, transfer or withdrawal
shall be permitted only upon the written instruction of the city officers.
Securities not held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall be
personally deposited by such officer in a safety deposit box in the name of the
city in a bank or trust company, access to which shall be permitted only in the
personal presence and under the signature of two of the abovementioned
officers.
§ 1-707 SALE OR TRANSFER.
   If, in order to maintain sufficient monies on demand deposit in any fund as
provided in §
1-705, it becomes necessary to transfer or sell any securities of such funds,
the officers specified in §
1-706 may transfer said securities to any other fund or funds in which there
are temporarily idle monies, or shall sell such securities, and for such
purpose they shall have authority to make any necessary written direction,
endorsement or assignment for and on behalf of the city.
§ 1-708 INTEREST ON TIME DEPOSITS.
   The City Clerk shall deposit the interest earned on invested idle funds to
the General Fund, unless otherwise required or authorized by law.
ARTICLE 8: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
1-801   Public Building Commission
   
1-802   Kansas Independent College Finance Authority
§ 1-801 PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION.
   (a)   Creation. There is hereby created under the authority of K.S.A. 12-
1757 et seq. (“the Act”) a municipal corporation to be known as the City of
North Newton, Kansas, Public Building Commission (the “PBC”).
   (b)   Composition. The PBC shall be composed of six members. All of such
members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to approval of the Council.
Three members shall have initial terms expiring on April 15, 2003; and the
remaining three members shall have initial terms expiring on April 15, 2005.
Terms of office for members after the expiration of the initial terms shall be
for terms of four years. In the event that the PBC provides buildings or
structures that are leased to governmental entities other than the city, the
composition of the PBC shall be modified by subsequent ordinance of the city to
conform to the requirements of the Act.
   (c)   Purpose, powers and functions. The PBC is created for the purposes of,
and shall have the powers and shall perform the functions set forth in, the
Act. The city, by ordinance or charter ordinance hereafter taking effect, shall
have the authority to limit or expand the purposes, powers and/or functions of
the PBC.
   (d)   Support services. Unless otherwise approved by the Council, the City
Administrator shall provide administrative services to the PBC and the city’s
Bond Counsel and the City Attorney shall provide legal services to the PBC.
   (e)   Further action. The PBC shall have the authority to adopt bylaws,
resolutions or other official actions authorized by the Act and not
inconsistent with the provisions of this section to govern its actions.
(Ord. 451-01, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 1-802 KANSAS INDEPENDENT COLLEGE FINANCE AUTHORITY.
   (a)   Authorization to issue bonds. The city is hereby authorized under
Kansas Constitution Art. 12, § 5, to issue bonds and/or notes for the purpose
of providing funds to make loans to finance, refinance and reimburse the cost
of educational facilities and to provide working capital funds to local
independent private colleges and universities within the city and its environs
in order to develop the general economic welfare of the city and to improve the
educational opportunities for residents of the city.
   (b)   Authorization of First Amended and Restated Agreement. The city is
hereby authorized under Kansas Constitution, Art. 12, § 5, to enter into the
First Amended and Restated Agreement among the city and the other members, in
substantially the form presented to the governing body of the city, in order to
become a member of the Kansas Independent College Finance Authority (the
“Authority”) and to enable the Authority to make loans to certain independent
private colleges and universities within the city, with such changes therein to
correct omissions or ambiguities as shall be approved by the representatives of
the city executing the First Amended and Restated Agreement, such
representatives’ signatures thereon being conclusive evidence of their approval
thereof.
   (c)   City not liable. In no event shall the city be liable for the
repayment of any loan or any bonds and/or notes issued in connection therewith,
or for any fees, costs, expenses or other obligations in connection with the
issuance of the bonds and/or notes or the making of loans.
   (d)   Further authority. The city shall, and the officers and agents of the
city are hereby authorized and directed to, take such action and execute such
other documents, certificates and instruments as may be necessary or desirable
to carry out and comply with the intent of this section, the Original Agreement
and the First Amended and Restated Agreement.
   (e)   Authority. This section is adopted pursuant to and under authority of
Kansas Constitution Art. 12, § 5, and the Interlocal Cooperation Act, K.S.A.
12-2902 et seq.
(Ord. 460-02, passed 4-8-2002)
ARTICLE 9: CITY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
1-901   Disaster assistance
§ 1-901 DISASTER ASSISTANCE.
   (a)   In the event of a disaster when there is a request for assistance, if
the city can provide assistance without unduly jeopardizing the protection of
its own community, this section hereby authorizes the City Administrator or his
or her designee to provide such assistance as may be required under authority
granted in Ch. 75 of the 1994 Session Laws of the state, with all the
privileges and immunities provided therein.
   (b)   Nothing in this section is intended to conflict or circumvent any
existing interlocal agreement, any automatic aid, intergovernmental or mutual
aid agreement or any authority to enter into those in the future.
   (c)   It is the intent of this section to provide assistance in any form of
service, including, but not limited to, police, public works, administrative
and clerical during time of disaster as defined in Ch. 75 of the 1994 Session
Laws of the state, with all the privileges and immunities described therein.
(Ord. 394, passed 4-10-1995)
CHAPTER II: ANIMAL CONTROL AND REGULATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   DOGS
      
3.   CATS
      
4.   OTHER ANIMALS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
2-101   Definitions
   
2-102   Animal Control Officer; duty to impound; citation alternative
   
2-103   Same; capture/destruction
   
2-104   Same; right of entry; unlawful interference
   
2-105   Municipal pound established
   
2-106   Breaking pound
   
2-107   Reserved
   
2-108   Reserved
   
2-109   Keeping animals
   
2-110   Animal traps
   
2-111   Nuisance; animal activities prohibited
   
2-112   Noisy animals
   
2-113   Animal confines; shelters
   
2-113A   Same; stockyards; commercial holding pens
   
2-114   Death of animals
   
2-115   Vicious animals
   
2-116   Running at large
   
2-117   Impoundment; fee; notice; record
   
2-118   Redemption of impounded animals
   
2-119   Impoundment of rabies suspects
   
2-120   Animals bitten by rabid animals
   
2-121   Vehicular accidents involving animals
   
2-122   Emergency; proclamation
   
2-123   Kennel licenses
   
2-124   Removal of animal feces required
§ 2-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Includes the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person
responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for its
proper care over a 48-hour-period.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The facility or facilities operated by the city or its
authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals under the
authority of this chapter or state law.
   ANIMALS. All vertebrate and invertebrate animals, such as, but not limited
to, bovine cattle, horses and other equines, hogs, goats, dogs, cats, rabbits,
sheep, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons and other fowl or wild animals,
reptiles, fish, bees or birds that have been tamed, domesticated or captivated.
   AT LARGE. To be outside of a fence or other enclosure that restrains the
animals to a particular premises or not under the control, by leash or lead, of
the owner or other authorized person capable of restraining the animal. Animals
tethered to a stationary object within range of public thoroughfares are deemed
to be AT LARGE.
   BITE. Any actual or suspected abrasion, scratch, puncture, tear, bruise or
piercing of the skin caused by any animal which is actually or suspected of
being contaminated or inoculated with the saliva from the animal, directly or
indirectly, regardless of the health of the animal causing such bite.
   CAT. Any member of the species Felis catus, regardless of sex.
   DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal deemed to be dangerous or vicious
per §
2-115.
   DOG. Any member of the species Canis familiaris, regardless of sex.
   FOWL. All animals that are included in the zoological class Aves, which
shall include, but not be limited to, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guineas
and pigeons.
   HARBOR. Any person who shall allow any animal to habitually remain or lodge
or to be fed within his or her home, store, yard, enclosure or place of
business or any other premises where he or she resides or controls.
   HUMANE LIVE ANIMAL TRAP. Any cage trap that, upon activation, encloses an
animal without placing any physical restraint upon any part of the body of such
animal.
   HUMANELY EUTHANIZE. The proper injection of a substance that quickly and
painlessly terminates the life of an animal, or any other method approved by
the American Veterinary Medical Association or the American Humane Society.
   IMMEDIATE CONTROL. The regulation and supervision by a competent person so
that an animal is unable to run or get loose at will.
   KENNEL. Any establishment, commercial or otherwise, maintained for breeding,
rearing, grooming, boarding or otherwise harboring in an enclosure, in one
location only, more than six dogs.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to, cattle, horses, goats, sheep or
other animals commonly regarded or used as farm or ranch animals.
   NEUTERED. Any male or female cat or dog that has been permanently rendered
sterile.
   OWN. Includes own, keep, harbor, shelter, manage, possess or have a part
interest in any animal. If a minor OWNS any such animal subject to the
provisions of this chapter, the head of the household of which such minor is a
member shall be deemed to OWN such animal for the purposes of this chapter.
   OWNER. The one who owns, or his or her employee, agent or other competent
person into whose charge an animal has been placed by the actual owner as
described in the definition for “own” above.
   VACCINATION. An injection of a vaccine, approved by the State Board of
Public Health, and administered by a licensed veterinarian for the purpose of
immunizing an animal against rabies.
   VETERINARIAN. A doctor of veterinary medicine licensed by the State of
Kansas.
§ 2-102 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; DUTY TO IMPOUND; CITATION ALTERNATIVE.
   (a)   There is hereby created the position of Animal Control Officer for the
city, and such officer shall be charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
Any person employed by the city as an Animal Control Officer and commissioned
by the City Council of the city shall have such powers and authority as allowed
by law in the enforcement of this chapter. All Animal Control Officers shall be
subject to the supervision and direction of the City Administrator of the city.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) below, it shall be the duty of the
Animal Control Officer to take up and impound all animals found in the city in
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   As an alternative to the provisions of division (b) above, any law
enforcement officer or the Animal Control Officer may issue a citation to the
owner, harborer or keeper of an animal in violation of this chapter, and the
person receiving the citation shall, within ten days, appear in the Municipal
Court of the city to answer the charged violation of this chapter.
§ 2-103 SAME; CAPTURE/DESTRUCTION.
   When deemed necessary by law enforcement officers or the Animal Control
Officer for the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city, such
officers and/or their agents may:
   (a)   Place a humane trap on public or a requesting resident’s property for
the purpose of capturing any animal defined in this chapter as creating a
nuisance in the city;
   (b)   Use any tranquilizer guns, humane traps or other suitable devices to
subdue and capture any animal that is deemed by the Animal Control Officer, in
his or her discretion, to be of a danger to itself or to the public health and
safety; or
   (c)   Use firearms or other suitable weapons to destroy any rabid animal,
any vicious animal as defined in §
2-115 or any animal creating a nuisance, as defined in §
2-111, where such animal is impossible or impractical to catch, capture or
tranquilize.
§ 2-104 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY; UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   (a)   The Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement officer shall have
the right of entry upon any private unenclosed lots or lands for the purpose of
collecting any animal whose presence thereupon is a violation of this chapter,
to the extent allowed by law.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the Animal
Control Officer in the exercise of his or her duties.
§ 2-105 MUNICIPAL POUND ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   A municipal pound shall be established to carry out the provisions of
this chapter. Such a pound may be operated by a contractor and all services
required herein may be provided by a contractor.
   (b)   When so contracted, the pound shall have the following services and
facilities as a minimum:
      (1)   Adequate pickup and impounding of all stray and ownerless dogs and
cats and animals otherwise in violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Group holding facilities for stray, ownerless and unvaccinated
animals impounded for violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Individual isolation facilities for sick, biting, rabid and
suspected rabid animals; and
      (4)   Facilities for the humane destruction of animals.
§ 2-106 BREAKING POUND.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open, unlock,
break open or attempt to break open the pound, or to take or let out any animal
placed therein, or take or attempt to take from an authorized officer of this
city any animal taken up by him or her under the provisions of this chapter, or
in any manner interfere with or hinder any authorized officer or employee of
this city in catching, taking up or impounding any animal.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than those duly
authorized, to care for, feed, attempt to feed or interfere in any way with the
care of impounded animals.
§ 2-107 RESERVED.
§ 2-108 RESERVED.
§ 2-109 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, occupant or person in
charge of any premises in the city to possess and maintain any animal or fowl
within the city or permit to be maintained thereon any stable, shed, pen or
other place where horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats or swine, or
undomesticated animals, are kept.
   (b)   This provision shall not apply to:
      (1)   The maintaining of a stockyard or sales barn for the loading,
unloading, temporary detention and sale of such livestock, if the location of
such stockyard or sales barn does not otherwise violate the zoning ordinances
of the city;
      (2)   The maintaining of dogs which are regulated by
Art. 2 of this chapter;
      (3)   The maintaining of non-poisonous and non-vicious animals and fowl
which are commonly kept as household pets, such as cats, hamsters, rabbits,
parakeets and comparable animals, when kept as household pets and in a safe and
sanitary manner in accordance with §
2-113; and
      (4)   The transporting of animals through the city by ordinary and
customary means.
§ 2-110 ANIMAL TRAPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, place, set out or deploy any
animal trap aboveground which makes use of a spring gun, spring jaws, clamping
device, cutting or stabbing mechanism, or any other devices that will damage or
severely injure any animal when caught or trapped by the device or trap; except
that nothing herein contained shall prohibit the use of animal traps that are
so designed to trap and hold animals without injuring the animals.
§ 2-111 NUISANCE; ANIMAL ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to keep or maintain
such animal in the city so as to constitute a nuisance.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, NUISANCE is defined as any animal
which:
      (1)   Molests or interferes with persons in the public right-of-way;
      (2)   Attacks or injures persons or other domestic animals;
      (3)   Damages public or private property other than that of its owner or
harborer by its activities or with its excrement;
      (4)   Scatters refuse that is bagged or otherwise contained; or
      (5)   Causes any condition that threatens or endangers the health or
well-being of persons or other animals.
   (c)   If a summons is issued charging violation of this provision, a
subpoena shall also be issued to the complainant to testify to the nuisance
under oath.
§ 2-112 NOISY ANIMALS.
   The keeping or harboring of any animal which by loud, frequent and habitual
barking, howling, yelping, mewing, roaring or screeching shall disturb the
peace of any neighborhood is hereby prohibited. It shall be the duty of any
person harboring or keeping such loud or noisy animal or animals to abate the
condition, and if he or she fails to do so, the city may abate it by taking up,
impounding and/or disposing of the animal at the expense of the owner.
§ 2-113 ANIMAL CONFINES; SHELTERS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any animal in
any yard, structure or area that is not clean, dry and sanitary; free from
debris and offensive odors that annoy any neighbor; and devoid of rodents and
vermin.
   (b)   Excrement shall be removed at least once each week from any animal
shelter, pen or yard area where animals are kept, or more often if necessary to
prevent or control odors, fly breeding or rodent infestation. If excrement is
stored on the premises by any animal owner, it shall be stored in adequate
containers with fly-tight lids, and all such stored or accumulated wastes shall
be disposed of at least once each week.
   (c)   All animal shelters, pens and yards shall be so located that adequate
drainage is obtained, normal drying occurs and standing water is not present.
   (d)   All animal shelters and board fences confining animals shall be
maintained in good repair, and all animal shelters and board fences confining
animals subject to residential and commercial classification shall be protected
from deterioration by painting or comparable treatment.
   (e)   Barbed wire fences and electrically charged fences shall not be
permitted for animal confines except on properties in which an agricultural
classification permit is held or where the barbed wire fence or electrically
charged fence is protected by an exterior fence.
   (f)   All premises in which animals are kept shall be subject to inspection
by the Animal Control Officer, duly authorized law enforcement officer or
Public Health Official. If the Officer or Official determines from such
inspection that the premises are not being maintained in a clean and sanitary
manner, he or she shall notify the owner of the animals in writing to correct
the sanitation deficiencies within 24 hours after notice is served on the
owner. Any animal kept under any condition that could endanger the public or
animal health or create a health nuisance may be impounded. Animals shall be
released after fees are paid and cause for impoundment has been corrected.
§ 2-113A SAME; STOCKYARDS; COMMERCIAL HOLDING PENS.
   Animal shelters owned or operated as a stockyard or commercial holding pen
shall be adequately maintained and cleaned as often as is necessary, as
determined by the Health Officer, to control fly breeding or to control other
conditions adversely affecting the public health, including the following:
   (a)   Collected fecal material and other solid organic waste shall be
disposed of at a sanitary landfill, fertilizer processing plant or by proper
dispersal on land used for agricultural purposes;
   (b)   Grain or protein feed shall be stored in tightly covered rodent-proof
metal containers or rodent-proof bins;
   (c)   Premises subject to the terms of this section shall be maintained free
of rodent harborage and in accordance with
Ch. VIII, Art. 6 of this code;
   (d)   Wherever reasonable, use shall be made of anti-coagulant rodenticides
for the control of rodents and organo-phosphorus insecticides for the control
of flies, or any other effective chemical means for the control of rodents and
flies;
   (e)   Wherever reasonable, use shall be made of soil sterilants and
herbicides or other effective means for the control of weeds and grass around
structures and buildings;
   (f)   Enclosures, including fences, where animals such as horses, cows,
sheep and goats are maintained shall be constructed in a manner using dimension
lumber materials, or other effective means to prevent such animals from
breaking out or causing hazard to persons or property;
   (g)   The solid wastes accumulated from the cleaning of animal shelters and
holding pens maintained by persons subject to a residential classification
permit as herein provided shall be stored in metal containers, with tight-
fitting metal lids, and all such stored or accumulated wastes shall be disposed
of at least once each week;
   (h)   Holding lots, pens and floors of sheds and buildings where animals are
held and which are maintained by persons subject to a commercial, industrial or
agricultural classification permit according to the terms of this chapter shall
be surfaced with concrete or asphaltic materials, and the drainage system of
such surfaced areas shall include proper retaining walls and traps to control
the waste from draining into watercourses, and such drainage system shall be
subject to the approval of the Health Officer. The Health Officer shall waive
this standard for domestic animal holding operations where such animal holding
is longer than 24 hours for any domestic animal involved or where dirt lots are
more appropriate to the proper care of cattle, horses or sheep; and
   (i)   Solid wastes accumulated from the cleaning of animal shelters and
holding pens maintained by persons subject to a commercial, industrial or
agricultural permit, according to the terms of this chapter, shall be stored on
concrete slabs or other facilities, such as dirt lots on which is stockpiled
manure with an exposed perimeter as approved by the Health Officer; provided,
that all solid waste shall be properly disposed of at least once each week or
as may be approved by the Health Officer.
§ 2-114 DEATH OF ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be disposed of by the owner or keepers within 24
hours of the animal’s death by burial, by incineration in a facility approved
by the Animal Control Officer, by rendering or by other lawful means approved
by the Animal Control Officer. No dead animal shall be dumped on any public or
private property.
§ 2-115 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (a)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, possess or
harbor a vicious animal within the city. Impoundment of animals whose owners
have been cited for violation of this section shall be at the discretion of the
Animal Control Officer. If the animal presents a clear and present danger to
the public health or safety, it shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer
or his or her agent to impound such animal.
   (b)   Defined. For purposes of this chapter, a VICIOUS ANIMAL shall include:
      (1)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings or domestic animals;
      (2)   Any animal that attacks a human being or domestic animal without
provocation;
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting, or any animal trained for fighting; or
      (4)   Any animal that is urged by its owner or harborer to attack, or
whose owner or harborer threatens to provoke such animal to attack, any law
enforcement officer while such officer is engaged in the performance of
official duty.
   (c)   Complaint.
      (1)   Whenever a sworn complaint is filed in the Municipal Court against
the owner of an animal alleging that such animal is vicious and in violation of
this section, the Municipal Judge shall hold a hearing to determine whether or
not the animal is vicious within the meaning of this section and thereby in
violation of this section. The owner of the animal shall be notified in writing
of the time and place of the hearing at least one week before the hearing.
      (2)   In making a determination, the Municipal Judge shall consider the
following:
         (A)   The seriousness of the attack or bite;
         (B)   Past history of attacks or bites;
         (C)   Likelihood of attacks or bites in the future;
         (D)   The condition and circumstances in which the animal is kept or
confined; and
         (E)   Other factors that may reasonably relate to the determination of
whether or not the animal is vicious.
      (3)   The Municipal Judge shall order the impoundment, the muzzling in
accordance with division (d) below, and/or the confinement of the animal
accused of being in violation of this section in a manner and location that
will ensure that it is no threat to persons or other animals pending the
outcome of the hearing. If such impoundment, muzzling or otherwise safe
confinement is not possible or if prior court orders to restrain such animal
have gone unheeded, the Municipal Judge may order the animal immediately
destroyed.
   (d)   Vicious dogs to be muzzled. It shall be the duty of every owner,
keeper or harborer of any dog in the city, which dog is vicious or has been
known to bite, chase or run after any person or animal in the streets, alleys
or any public place in the city, to keep the same muzzled with a good and
sufficient wire or leather muzzle, securely fastened so as to wholly prevent
such dog from biting any animal or person, until such time as a determination
has been made by the court as to whether the dog is vicious or not. Any person
owning, keeping or harboring any dog within the city limits contrary to this
section shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
   (e)   Immediate destruction. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent the Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement officer from taking
whatever action is reasonably necessary to protect himself or herself or
members of the public from injury or danger, including immediate destruction of
any vicious animal without notice to the owner.
   (f)   Release of. If a complaint has been filed in the Municipal Court
against the owner of an impounded animal for a charge under this section, the
animal shall not be released except on the order of the Municipal Judge, who
may also direct the owner to pay all impounding fees in addition to any
penalties for violation of this chapter. The Municipal Judge may, upon making a
finding that an animal is vicious or that it represents a clear and present
danger to the citizens or to other animals in the community, order the animal
to be destroyed in a humane manner by the animal shelter. Surrender of an
animal by the owner thereof to the Animal Control Officer does not relieve or
render the owner immune from the decision of the Court, nor to the fees and
fines which may result from a violation of this section.
§ 2-116 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully allow any animal or fowl
under his or her control to be or to run at large within the city. Any animal
or fowl found at large shall be impounded as provided in §§
2-117 or
2-207 (dogs).
§ 2-117 IMPOUNDMENT; FEE; NOTICE; RECORD.
   (a)   The Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer shall impound
any animal or fowl found at large in the city or constituting a nuisance or
otherwise in violation of this chapter in a suitable pound or enclosure
provided or contracted for by the city. The impounding officer shall make
diligent inquiry as to the owner of the animal and shall notify the owner
thereof of such impoundment as soon as reasonably possible.
   (b)   The city shall be entitled to receive from such owner an impoundment
fee, as set by the governing body, plus the actual cost of feeding and
maintaining the animal while impounded.
   (c)   In case the identity of the owner of the impounded animal or fowl
cannot be ascertained, the Animal Control Officer or police officer shall, upon
taking any such animal into custody and impounding the same, make a record
thereof, with a description of the animal and the date and place taken into
custody and the place of impounding, and shall thereupon immediately post a
public notice stating that the animal, describing the same with the date and
place of taking, has been taken up, and that unless the charges of impounding
the same, together with any license fees due and unpaid, are paid within three
business days from the date of the notice, the animal will be disposed of as
provided in this code.
   (d)   The Animal Control Officer shall each month submit a report to the
person designated by the city showing the number of animals impounded and
disposed of, and the fees collected pursuant to this article, and shall pay
those fees to the City Clerk for credit to the General Operating Fund.
§ 2-118 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   At any time before the sale or destruction of any animal impounded under the
provisions of this article, except for animals impounded under §§
2-115 (vicious) and
2-119 (rabid), the owner thereof may redeem the animal by paying the Animal
Control Officer or any person in charge the impounding fee and all costs
incurred as a result of such impoundment.
§ 2-119 IMPOUNDMENT OF RABIES SUSPECTS.
   (a)   Any law enforcement officer or local Health Officer may take up, upon
private or public property, any animal that has bitten or scratched a person or
other animal and impound the animal in the city pound, securely penned and
separated from other animals, or in a veterinary hospital or animal care
facility for a period of not more than 30 days, during which time the local
Health Officer shall determine whether or not such animal is suffering from a
disease and, if not, the local Health Officer shall authorize the release of
the animal upon payment by the owner of the boarding fee therefor. The Health
Officer may authorize the keeping of any such animal on the owner’s premises if
the owner produces a rabies vaccination certificate showing that the animal has
valid rabies vaccination protection. Impoundment costs shall be borne by the
owner. If in the opinion of the local Health Officer symptoms develop
justifying a microscopic examination, then the animal shall be killed and
examination made by the State Board of Health.
   (b)   In lieu of the provisions of division (a) above, the owner of any such
animal may, at his or her own expense, take such animal to any duly qualified
and licensed veterinarian in the city for observation. Such veterinarian shall
report his or her findings in writing to the local Health Officer. If in the
opinion of such veterinarian a microscopic examination is justified, then the
animal shall be turned over to the Animal Control Officer or any law
enforcement officer to be killed and examination made by the State Board of
Health.
   (c)   Any animal desired for observation by the local Health Officer under
this section shall be delivered to the Animal Control Officer or any law
enforcement officer upon demand and shall not be withheld, hidden or harbored.
Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
Upon refusal of any person to so deliver such animal, the Municipal Judge shall
cause a warrant to be issued for the arrest of such person, which warrant shall
also provide for the surrender of the animal and shall be lawful authority for
the apprehending and forcible taking of such animal.
§ 2-120 ANIMALS BITTEN BY RABID ANIMALS.
   (a)   Whenever a dog, cat or other animal is bitten by a rabid animal or an
animal later proved to have been rabid, it shall be the duty of the owner of
the animal that is bitten to report that fact to the local Health Officer and/
or the Police Department.
   (b)   It shall also be the duty of the owner of the bitten animal to either
destroy or have his or her bitten animal destroyed unless:
      (1)   The animal that was bitten had been vaccinated against rabies at
least three weeks before being bitten and has a current vaccination;
      (2)   If the bitten animal has a current vaccination, it shall be
confined for 90 days;
      (3)   The bitten animal shall be released from confinement only upon
written order from the local Health Officer who declares the animal to be free
of rabies; and
      (4)   If the animal is found to have contracted rabies during
confinement, it shall be properly disposed of.
§ 2-121 VEHICULAR ACCIDENTS INVOLVING ANIMALS.
   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes any animal shall
stop at once and shall immediately report such injury or death to the owner of
such animal, or in the event that the owner cannot be ascertained and located,
the operator shall at once report the accident to the Animal Control Officer or
any law enforcement officer.
§ 2-122 EMERGENCY; PROCLAMATION.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized, whenever in his or her opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid animals is made imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning any animal in the city to confine the
animal in a good and sufficient enclosure from which the animal cannot escape,
or fasten such animal by means of a chain on the premises where the owner may
reside, for such time as may be specified in such proclamation. Any animal not
confined during such time may be disposed of wherever found by any police
officer or the Animal Control Officer of the city. The owner of such animal
shall be prosecuted for such violation thereof.
§ 2-123 KENNEL LICENSES.
[Reserved]
§ 2-124 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL FECES REQUIRED.
   (a)   Removal of animal feces required. The owner, walker or keeper of any
animal or pet shall immediately remove the animal’s excrement from public or
private property (including public walks, streets, recreation areas and parks),
other than the property owned or under the control of the animal’s owner, and
dispose of it in a sanitary manner.
   (b)   Penalty. Any person who shall be convicted of violating any of the
provisions of this section shall be punished with a fine of $25. No court costs
are to be assessed.
(Ord. 472-03, passed 8-11-2003)
ARTICLE 2: DOGS
Section
   
2-201   Registration and vaccination required; fee
   
2-202   Dog tags
   
2-203   Same; counterfeit tag
   
2-204   Evidence of vaccination
   
2-205   Visiting dogs
   
2-206   Running at large; fine
   
2-207   Impoundment; record; notice; redemption; minimum fee
   
2-208   Disposition of unclaimed dogs
   
2-209   Confinement of dogs in heat
   
2-210   Muzzling
§ 2-201 REGISTRATION AND VACCINATION REQUIRED; FEE.
   (a)   (1)   Every owner of any dog over six months of age shall annually
register with the City Clerk
his or her name and address with the name, sex and description of each dog
owned and kept within the city. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any newly
acquired dog or any dog brought into the city to fail to register such animal
within 30 days from acquisition or bringing the dog into the city. It shall be
unlawful for the owner of any previously registered dog to fail to maintain
current registration of such dog.
      (2)   Upon registration, the owner shall present a current, completed
certificate of immunization against rabies. No registration shall follow
without evidence of this document, and it shall be unlawful for the owner of
any dog over six months of age to fail to maintain effective rabies
immunization of such dog.
      (3)   The owner or harborer of any dog shall, at the time of registering
such dog, present to the City Clerk a certificate from an accredited
veterinarian showing that a male dog has been neutered or a female dog has been
spayed, if the dog has been neutered or spayed.
      (4)   The City Clerk shall collect an annual registration fee of $3 for
each neutered male dog and for each spayed female dog, and a fee of $5 for each
unneutered male dog and for each unspayed female dog.
      (5)   The registration year shall be from January 1 through December 31
of each year. The fee shall be payable before March 1 of each year without
penalty.
   (b)   Registration fees as enumerated above may be prorated for newly
acquired dogs or for dogs owned by a person or persons moving to and
establishing a home in the city during a calendar year. Every owner or harborer
of a dog or dogs who shall fail to register the same prior to March 1 of each
year shall pay, in addition to the registration fee herein provided, a penalty
fee for late registration of $15.
§ 2-202 DOG TAGS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk or designated agent, upon a
showing of current rabies immunization and receipt of the registration fee
hereinbefore required, to keep a record of the registration of dogs, the time
of the registration, the name of the owner or keeper, the number of the
registration and the amount paid therefor, and shall deliver to the owner or
keeper of the dog a certificate in writing, stating that the person has
registered the dog and the number by which the dog is registered, and shall
also deliver to the owner or keeper of the dog a tag with the registration
number and the registration year thereon, which shall be, by the owner or
keeper, attached to the collar to be used on the dog so registered.
   (b)   When any tag has become lost during a registration period, the owner
of the dog may request a duplicate tag for the remainder of the registration
period. When so requested, the City Clerk shall, upon presentation of the
registration certificate, issue a duplicate of such tag upon the payment of a
fee of $3.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to take off or remove the city
registration tag from any dog belonging to another, or to remove the strap or
collar on which the same is fastened.
§ 2-203 SAME; COUNTERFEIT TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place on any dog a tag issued for any
other dog or to make or use any false, forged or counterfeited tag or imitation
thereof.
§ 2-204 EVIDENCE OF VACCINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog kept within the city to fail
to display a current certificate of immunization against rabies issued by an
accredited veterinarian, evidencing the vaccination of such dog within two
years, when requested by the Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement
officer.
§ 2-205 VISITING DOGS.
   The provisions of this article with respect to registration shall not apply
to any dog owned by any person visiting or temporarily remaining within the
city for less than 30 days; however, such dogs shall be kept under restraint by
the owner thereof at all times.
§ 2-206 RUNNING AT LARGE; FINE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or harborer of any dog to permit
such dog to run at large within the city at any time.
   (b)   Any dog running at large within the city shall be impounded as set out
in §
2-207.
   (c)   The owner of any dog impounded for running at large without the tag
required by §
2-202 shall, for the first offense, pay a fine of $25, plus the board bill.
   (d)   For the first offense of an animal running at large with a tag as
required by §
2-202, the owner or harborer claiming any animal shall, in addition to
presenting a registration receipt, pay the cost of the board bill. For a second
offense within a one-year-period, the owner or harborer shall pay a fine of
$100, plus the board bill. For a third and all subsequent offenses within a
one-year-period, the owner or harborer shall pay a fine of $200, plus the cost
of the board bill.
§ 2-207 IMPOUNDMENT; RECORD; NOTICE; REDEMPTION; MINIMUM FEE.
   (a)   Any dog found in violation of the provisions of this article shall be
subject to impoundment by the city.
   (b)   A record of all dogs impounded shall be kept by the city containing
the following information: color; sex; weight; height; identifying marks;
registration number (if any); and the date of impoundment.
   (c)   No dog impounded under this section shall be disposed of until after
expiration of a minimum of three full business days of custody, during which
the public has clear access to inspect and recover the dog through time periods
ordinarily accepted as usual business hours. During such time of custody, the
city shall attempt to notify the owner or custodian of any dog impounded by
such facility if the owner or custodian is known or reasonably ascertainable.
Such dog may, at any time, be released to the legal owner, moved to a
veterinary hospital for treatment or observation, released in any manner, if
such dog was a gift to the animal shelter, or euthanized by a licensed
veterinarian if it appears to the veterinarian that the dog is diseased or
disabled beyond recovery. If within three full business days the owner does not
appear to claim the dog, then the dog may be sold, euthanized or otherwise
disposed of.
   (d)   If, at any time before the sale or destruction of any dog impounded
under the provisions of this article, the owner of an impounded dog does appear
and redeem the dog, it shall be turned over to the person claiming it upon
payment of any impoundment fees or penalties plus the actual costs of
impoundment, and shall not apply to any dog alleged as being vicious under §
2-115 or suspected of rabies under §
2-119.
   (e)   The impoundment fee shall be assessed by, and remitted to, Caring
Hands Humane Society.
   (f)   Any dog impounded may not be released without a current rabies
vaccination.
   (g)   Impoundment hereunder shall not preclude any court from imposing and
executing any fine that might otherwise be levied under this article for
violation of any of the provisions thereof, nor shall impoundment be a defense
in any prosecution commenced hereunder.
   (h)   The redemption of any dog impounded for a violation of any provision
of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence of the violation of such
provision by the person redeeming the dog.
§ 2-208 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS.
   (a)   If any dog is not redeemed by its owner or harborer within the time
allowed for redemption as specified in §
2-207 thereof, the Animal Control Officer, any authorized law enforcement
officer, any authorized veterinarian or any duly authorized pound personnel may
destroy such dog or sell the same for the costs of impoundment and keeping,
plus any registration fee due for the current year.
   (b)   No dog may be transferred to the permanent custody of a prospective
owner unless:
      (1)   Such dog has been surgically spayed or neutered before the physical
transfer of the dog occurs; or
      (2)   The prospective owner signs an agreement to have the dog spayed or
neutered and deposits with the city not less than the lowest nor more than the
highest cost of spaying or neutering in the community as determined by the
city. Any funds deposited under such an agreement shall be refunded to such
person upon presentation of a written statement signed by a licensed
veterinarian that the dog has been spayed or neutered. If such person does not
reclaim the deposit within six months after receiving custody of the dog, the
city shall keep the deposit and may reclaim the unspayed or unneutered dog.
   (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require sterilization of
a dog that is being held by the city and that may be claimed by its rightful
owner within the holding period established in §
2-207.
§ 2-209 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS IN HEAT.
   (a)   Any unspayed female dog in the stage of estrus (heat) shall be
confined during such period of time in a house, building or secure enclosure,
and the area of enclosure shall be so constructed that no other dog or dogs may
gain voluntary access to the confined animal except for purposes of planned
breeding.
   (b)   Any animal that is in the state of estrus (heat) and that is not
properly confined, or any such animal that is creating a neighborhood nuisance,
shall be removed to a boarding kennel, to a veterinary hospital or to the
animal shelter. All expenses incurred as a result of the confinement shall be
paid by the owner. The owner of animals removed to the animal shelter shall be
charged at the rate established from time to time by the animal shelter for
routine confinement.
§ 2-210 MUZZLING.
   Whenever the Mayor shall deem it necessary for the protection and welfare of
the inhabitants of the city, he or she shall issue an order requiring all dogs
kept within the city to be effectively muzzled, for such length of time as may
be specified in the order, to prevent them from biting or injuring persons or
animals. Such order shall be published in the official newspaper of the city
for such period of time as the Mayor may deem necessary.
ARTICLE 3: CATS
Section
   
2-301   Registration, vaccination, and licencing of cats
   
2-302   Keeping or maintaining cats
   
2-303   Penalty
   
2-304   Euthanization of unredeemed cats
   
2-305   Visiting cats
§ 2-301 REGISTRATION, VACCINATION, AND LICENCING OF CATS.
   Rules and regulations pertaining to registration, vaccination and licensing
of cats and fees for such shall be as follows.
   (a)   Registration; cat tags. It shall be the duty of the owner or harborer
of any cat to register it with the City Clerk, who shall issue a receipt
therefor in the form of a tag of metal or other durable material stamped or
engraved with the registration number and the year of registration, which tag
shall be attached to a suitable collar and kept on the cat at all times;
provided, however, that this division (a) shall not apply to a cat under six
months of age.
   (b)   Vaccination. Any person applying for a license for a cat shall be
required to present to the City Clerk, at the time of making application, a
certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian showing that the cat has been
vaccinated or inoculated with a recognized anti-rabies vaccine, and showing
that the inoculation will be effective for the entire period of time for which
the license is issued; provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to
any cat under the age of six months.
   (c)   License fees. There shall be a license fee for each cat within the
corporate limits of the city as follows:
      (1)   For each neutered male or spayed female, the sum of $3. A
certificate of spaying or neutering signed by a licensed veterinarian must be
presented when paying the fee to receive this lower rate; and
      (2)   For each unneutered male or unspayed female, the sum of $5. The
license fee herein levied shall cover a 12-month period from January 1 through
December 31 or part thereof each year. The license fee shall be due and payable
January 1 each year. If the license fees are not paid within 60 days of the due
date, a penalty of $15 shall be added; provided, however, that new residents of
the city, or persons acquiring a cat or owning a cat that attains the age of
registration, shall have 30 days thereafter in which to register the cat at the
regular fee and without penalty.
   (d)   Ineligible applicants for registration. Any person who within the 36
months immediately preceding such application has been fined or convicted for
three or more violations of this article or who resides in the same household
with any person who, within the 36 months immediately preceding such
application, has been fined or convicted for three or more violations of this
article, shall not be eligible for or entitled to apply for or receive a
registration for any cat or to renew any registration for any cat.
(Ord. 359, passed 4-13-1992; Ord. 588-14, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 2-302 KEEPING OR MAINTAINING CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cat or cats to keep or maintain
such animals in the city so as to constitute a nuisance. For the purpose of
this section, NUISANCE is defined as any cat which:
   (a)   Molests or interferes with persons in the public right of way;
   (b)   Attacks or injures persons or other domestic animals;
   (c)   Damages public or private property other than that of its owner or
harborer by its activities or with its excrements;
   (d)   Causes any condition which threatens or endangers the health or well-
being of persons or other animals; and
   (e)   Disturbs the peace of any neighborhood by its loud, frequent or
habitual howling, meowing or screeching.
(Ord. 359, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 2-303 PENALTY.
   Any cat or cats kept or maintained within the city in violation of §§
2-301 or
2-302 herein may be taken up at any time by any authorized person of said city.
It shall be the duty of such authorized person to receive a cat so taken up and
safely keep and impound said cat for 72 hours from its delivery to him or her,
during which time such cat may be released to the owner or harborer thereof if
said person complies with the regulations set forth herein, pays the costs of
keeping said cat and, in addition thereto, the sum of $5 as a penalty.
(Ord. 359, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 2-304 EUTHANIZATION OF UNREDEEMED CATS.
   Said authorized person shall cause any cat not redeemed after being
impounded for 72 hours to be euthanized and shall cause the carcass thereof to
be disposed of properly.
(Ord. 359, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 2-305 VISITING CATS.
   Provisions of this article with respect to registration and licensing shall
not apply to any cat owned by any person visiting or temporarily remaining
within the city for less than 30 days.
(Ord. 359, passed 4-13-1992)
ARTICLE 4: OTHER ANIMALS
Section
   
2-401   Exotic animals
   
2-402   Wild or dangerous animals
§ 2-401 EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep,
maintain or have in his or her possession or under his or her control within
the city any poisonous reptile or any other dangerous wild animal or reptile;
any vicious or dangerous animal; or any other animal or reptile of wild,
vicious or dangerous propensities.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the city any of the
following animals:
      (1)   All poisonous animals, including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes: chimpanzees; gibbons; gorillas; orangutans; and siamangs;
      (3)   Baboons;
      (4)   Badgers;
      (5)   Bears;
      (6)   Bison;
      (7)   Bobcats;
      (8)   Cheetahs;
      (9)   Crocodilians 30 inches in length or more;
      (10)   Constrictor snakes six feet in length or more;
      (11)   Coyotes;
      (12)   Deer; includes all members of the deer family, for example, white-
tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      (13)   Elephants;
      (14)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (15)   Hippopotami;
      (16)   Hyenas;
      (17)   Jaguars;
      (18)   Leopards;
      (19)   Lions;
      (20)   Lynxes;
      (21)   Monkeys;
      (22)   Ostriches;
      (23)   Pumas; also known as cougars, mountain lions and panthers;
      (24)   Raccoons;
      (25)   Rhinoceroses;
      (26)   Skunks;
      (27)   Tigers; and
      (28)   Wolves.
   (c)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to bona fide pet
shops, zoos, circuses, carnivals, educational institutions or medical
institutions if:
      (1)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance
of the city;
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors; and
      (3)   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to prevent
their escape.
   (d)   The Municipal Judge shall have the authority to order any animal
deemed vicious confined, destroyed or removed from the city.
§ 2-402 WILD OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep,
maintain or have in his or her possession or under his or her control, within
the city, any poisonous reptile or any other dangerous wild animal or reptile,
any vicious or dangerous domesticated animal or any other animal or reptile of
wild, vicious or dangerous propensities.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the city any of the
following animals:
      (1)   All poisonous animals, including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Any warm-blooded, carnivorous or omnivorous, wild or exotic animal
(including, but not limited to, non-human primates, racoons, skunks, foxes and
wild or exotic cats); and
      (3)   Any pit bull dog. PIT BULL DOG is defined to mean:
         (A)   The bull terrier breed of dogs;
         (B)   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dogs;
         (C)   The American pit bull terrier breed of dogs;
         (D)   The American Staffordshire terrier breed of dogs;
         (E)   Dogs of mixed breed or of other breed than above-listed, which
breed or mixed breed is known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs or pit bull terriers;
and
         (F)   Any dog which has the appearance and characteristics of being
predominantly of the breeds of bull terrier, Staffordshire bull terrier,
American pit bull terrier, American Staffordshire terrier; any other breed
commonly known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs or pit bull terriers; or a
combination of any of these breeds.
   (c)   Divisions (a) and (b) above shall not apply to bonafide zoos,
circuses, carnivals, educational institutions or medical institutions if:
      (1)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance
of the city;
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors; and
      (3)   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to prevent
their escape.
   (d)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this article
shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $300 or imprisoned for any period not
to exceed six months, or shall be both so fined and imprisoned. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Ord. 299, passed 9-8-1986)
CHAPTER III: BEVERAGES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
      
3.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
4.   PRIVATE CLUBS
      
5.   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
      
6.   CATERERS
      
7.   TEMPORARY PERMITS
      
8.   SPECIAL EVENT CMB PERMITS
      
9.   KEG REGISTRATION
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
3-101   Definitions
   
3-102   Restriction on location
   
3-103   Minors on premises
   
3-104   Consumption on public property
   
3-105   Public sale; consumption
   
3-106   Common consumption areas
   
3-107   Consumption while driving
   
3-108   Identification card
   
3-109   Possession or consumption by minors
§ 3-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol, but does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC CANDY.
      (1)   For purposes of manufacturing, any candy or other confectionary
product with an alcohol content greater than 0.5% alcohol by volume; and
      (2)   For purposes of sale at retail, any candy or other confectionary
product with an alcohol content greater than 1% alcohol by volume.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, alcoholic candy and every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being, but shall not include
any cereal malt beverage.
   CATERER. An individual, partnership or corporation which sells alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage by the individual drink, and provides services
related to the serving thereof, on unlicensed premises which may be open to the
public, but does not include a holder of a temporary permit selling alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage in accordance with the terms of such permit.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Any fermented but undistilled liquor brewed or made
from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt substitute or any flavored malt
beverage, as defined in K.S.A. 41-2729, but does not include any such liquor
which is more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   CLASS A CLUB. A premises which is owned or leased by a corporation,
partnership, business trust or association and which is operated thereby as a
bona fide nonprofit social, fraternal or war veterans’ club, as determined by
the state, for the exclusive use of the corporate stockholders, partners, trust
beneficiaries or associates (hereinafter referred to as members), and their
families and guests accompanying them as provided in K.S.A. 41-2637.
   CLASS B CLUB. A premises operated for profit by a corporation, partnership
or individual to which members of such club may resort for the consumption of
food or alcoholic beverages and for entertainment.
   CLUB. A Class A or Class B club.
   COMMON CONSUMPTION AREA. A defined indoor or outdoor area not otherwise
subject to a license issued pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act or the
Club and Drinking Establishment Act where the possession and consumption of
alcoholic liquor is allowed pursuant to a common consumption area permit. The
boundaries of any COMMON CONSUMPTION AREA must be clearly marked using a
physical barrier or any apparent line of demarcation.
   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT. Premises, which may be open to the general public,
where alcoholic liquor by the individual drink is sold. The term DRINKING
ESTABLISHMENT includes a railway car.
   GENERAL RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
and beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume at retail.
   LIMITED RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
and beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume at retail only in
original and unopened containers and not for consumption on the premises.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any place at which cereal malt beverages, or alcoholic
beverages, or both, are sold.
   TEMPORARY PERMIT. A permit, issued in accordance with the laws of the state,
which allows the permit holder to offer for sale, sell and serve alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage for consumption on unlicensed premises open to
the public.
   WHOLESALER or DISTRIBUTOR. Any individuals, firms, co-partnerships,
corporations and associations which sell or offer for sale any beverage
referred to in this chapter to persons, co-partnerships, corporations and
associations authorized by this chapter to sell cereal malt beverages and beer
containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume at retail.
§ 3-102 RESTRICTION ON LOCATION.
   (a)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or served by a person holding a
license or permit from the city whose place of business or other premises are
located within _______ feet of any church, school, college, nursing home,
library, hospital, said distance to be measured from the nearest property line
of such church, school, nursing home, library, hospital, to the nearest portion
of the building occupied by the premises.
   (b)   The distance location of division (a) above shall not apply to a club,
drinking establishment, caterer or temporary permit holder when the license or
permit applicant petitions for and receives a waiver of the distance limitation
from the governing body. The governing body shall grant such a waiver only
following public notice and hearing and a finding by the governing body that
the proximity of the establishment is not adverse to the public welfare or
safety.
   (c)   No license or permit shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor
if the building or use does not meet the Zoning Ordinance requirements of the
city or conflicts with other city laws, including building and health codes.
§ 3-103 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
remain on any premises where the sale of alcoholic liquor is licensed for on-
premises consumption, or where a caterer or temporary permit holder is serving
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for the operator, person in charge or licensee of
any premises licensed for on-premises consumption of alcoholic liquor or a
caterer or temporary permit holder who is serving alcoholic liquor to permit
any person under the age of 21 years to remain on the premises.
   (c)   This section shall not apply if the person under the age of 21 years
is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or if the licensed or
permitted premises derive not more than 30% of its gross receipts in each
calendar year from the sale of alcoholic liquor for on-premises consumption.
§ 3-104 CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
[Reserved]
§ 3-105 PUBLIC SALE; CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve or dispense any
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor in any public place not licensed to
sell, serve or dispense such beverage at such public place within or under the
jurisdiction of the city.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or consume any cereal
malt beverage or alcoholic liquor in any public place not licensed to sell and
serve such beverage for public consumption at such public place within or under
the jurisdiction of the city.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, the term PUBLIC PLACE shall include upon
any street, public thoroughfare, public parking lot or any privately-owned
parking area made available to the public generally, within any parked or
driven motor vehicle situated in any of the aforesaid places or upon any
property owned by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless such
property is leased to others under K.S.A. 12-1740 et seq., if the property is
being used for hotel or motel purposes or purposes incidental thereto or is
owned or operated by an airport authority created pursuant to K.S.A. Ch. 27.
(K.S.A. 41-719)
§ 3-106 COMMON CONSUMPTION AREAS.
[Reserved]
§ 3-107 CONSUMPTION WHILE DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic liquor while operating any vehicle upon any street or highway.
(K.S.A. 8-1599, 41-719)
§ 3-108 IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or have in possession,
any fictitious, fraudulently altered or fraudulently obtained identification
card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (2)   Display or represent any identification card not issued to such
person as being his or her card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or
consumption of either cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (3)   Permit any unlawful use of an identification card issued to a
person for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor; and
      (4)   Photograph, photostat, duplicate or in any way reproduce any
identification card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could be
mistaken for a valid identification card or display or have in possession any
such photograph, photostat, duplicate, reproduction or facsimile for purposes
relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to lend any identification card to
or knowingly permit the use of any identification card by any person under 21
years of age for use in the sale, purchase or consumption of any cereal malt
beverage or alcoholic liquor.
§ 3-109 POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION BY MINORS.
   (a)   Prohibition of consumption or possession. No person under 21 years of
age shall obtain, or attempt to obtain from any person, or possess, or consume
alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage, except as authorized by law.
   (b)   Definition. For purposes of clarification, the prohibition against
possession of alcoholic liquor or a cereal malt beverage applies whether or not
the same is in opened or closed containers.
   (c)   Penalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not less than $100 nor more
than $250 or be imprisoned not to exceed three months, or both so fined and
imprisoned.
   (d)   Violators under age 18. Any person less than 18 years of age who
violates this section is a juvenile offender under the State Juvenile
Offender’s Code and shall be dealt with in the appropriate district court.
(Ord. 363, passed 5-11-1992)
ARTICLE 2: CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
[Reserved]
ARTICLE 3: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
[Reserved]
ARTICLE 4: PRIVATE CLUBS
Section
   
3-401   License required
   
3-402   License fee
   
3-403   Business regulations
§ 3-401 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a private club license by the
state to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage authorized
by such license within the city without first obtaining a local license from
the City Clerk.
§ 3-402 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a biennial license fee on each private club
located in the city which has a private club license issued by the State
Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which fee shall be paid before business
is begun under an original state license and within five days before the
license expires. The city license fee for a Class A club shall be $500 and the
city license fee for a Class B club shall be $500.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the city club license to be placed in plain
view next to or below the state license in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
§ 3-403 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No club licensed hereunder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage on its premises between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on any day.
   (b)   No club membership shall be sold to any person under 21 years of age,
nor shall alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages be given, sold or traded
to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
ARTICLE 5: DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
3-501   License required
   
3-502   License fee
   
3-503   Business regulations
§ 3-501 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a drinking establishment license
by the state to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage
authorized by such license within the city without first obtaining a city
license from the City Clerk.
§ 3-502 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a biennial license fee in the amount of $500 on
each drinking establishment located in the city which has a drinking
establishment license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control, which fee shall be paid before business is begun under an original
state license and within five days after any renewal of a state license.
   (b)   (1)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be
submitted to the City Clerk.
      (2)   Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city license
fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city license for
the period covered by the state license if there are no conflicts with any
zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the city drinking establishment license to
be placed in plain view next to or below the state license in a conspicuous
place on the licensed premises.
§ 3-503 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No drinking establishment licensed hereunder shall allow the serving,
mixing or consumption of alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage on its
premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (b)   No alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages shall be given, sold
or traded to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
ARTICLE 6: CATERERS
Section
   
3-601   License required
   
3-602   License fee
   
3-603   Business regulations
   
3-604   Notice to Chief of Police
§ 3-601 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed by the state as a caterer to
offer for sale, to sell or to serve any alcoholic liquor or cereal malt
beverage by the drink within the city without obtaining a local caterer’s
license from the City Clerk.
§ 3-602 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied an annual license fee in the amount of $500 on
each caterer doing business in the city who has a caterer’s license issued by
the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which fee shall be paid
before business is begun under an original state license and within five days
after any renewal of a state license.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the caterer license to be placed in plain
view on any premises within the city where the caterer is serving or mixing
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises.
§ 3-603 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No caterer licensed hereunder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage between the hours of 2:
00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (b)   No alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages shall be given, sold
or traded to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
§ 3-604 NOTICE TO CHIEF OF POLICE.
   Prior to any event at which a caterer will sell or serve alcoholic liquor by
the individual drink, the caterer shall provide written notice to the Chief of
Police at least seven days prior to the event if the event will take place
within the city. The notice shall contain the location, name of the group
sponsoring the event and the exact date and times the caterer will be serving.
ARTICLE 7: TEMPORARY PERMITS
Section
   
3-701   Temporary state permit required; permit fee
   
3-702   City temporary permit; permit fee
   
3-703   Same; application, issuance
   
3-704   Same; city permit regulations
   
3-705   Effective date
§ 3-701 TEMPORARY STATE PERMIT REQUIRED; PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   Any person who desires to sell or serve any CMB, beer or alcoholic
beverages as defined by state statutes at any temporary event within the city
shall first obtain a license and temporary permit issued and approved by the
state’s Division of Alcoholic Beverage Control or other appropriate state
agency.
   (b)   A person or entity operating under a valid state temporary permit may
serve or sell such beverages at events within the city without obtaining a city
temporary permit under §§
3-702 to
3-704.
(Ord. 678-25, passed 12-8-2025)
§ 3-702 CITY TEMPORARY PERMIT; PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   (1)   For city temporary permits, there is hereby levied a temporary
alcoholic liquor permit fee in the amount of $25 on each group or individual,
which fee shall be paid when the application for the city temporary alcoholic
liquor permit is turned in to the city.
      (2)   Such fee shall be in addition to any fee required to be remitted to
the Division of Alcohol Beverage Control.
   (b)   Every city temporary permit holder shall cause the permit receipt to
be placed in plain view on any premises within the city where the holder of the
temporary permit is serving CMB or beer or alcoholic beverages for consumption
on the premises.
(Ord. 678-25, passed 12-8-2025)
§ 3-703 SAME; APPLICATION, ISSUANCE.
   (a)   (1)   In addition to the above, a written application for a city
temporary alcoholic liquor permit shall be filed at least 45 days before any
such temporary event. The application shall be made to the City Clerk on a form
used for temporary events. A state temporary permit location and zoning
application form shall also be submitted as directed by the City Clerk.
      (2)   In addition to any other information required, the applicant shall
provide the following:
         (A)   The name of the applicant;
         (B)   The group for which the event is planned;
         (C)   The location of the event;
         (D)   The date and time of the event; and
         (E)   Any anticipated need for police, fire or other municipal
services.
   (b)   Upon review by the City Clerk and City Administrator, the City
Administrator shall submit the application to the City Council with a review
and recommendation. If the application meets the requirements for a temporary
permit and if it does not conflict with any zoning or other ordinances of the
city, the City Council shall consider a resolution to issue a local temporary
event permit to the applicant.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall notify the Chief of Police whenever a temporary
permit has been issued and forward a copy of the permit and application to the
Chief of Police.
(Ord. 678-25, passed 12-8-2025)
§ 3-704 SAME; CITY PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No temporary permit holder shall allow the serving of CMB, beer or
alcoholic beverages between the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 9:00 a.m. at
any event for which a temporary permit has been issued;
   (b)   No CMB, beer or alcoholic beverages shall be given, sold or traded to
any person under 21 years of age;
   (c)   No more than four city temporary permits may be issued in a calendar
year to the same applicant;
   (d)   No temporary permit issued hereunder may be transferred or assigned to
any other vendor;
   (e)   All local ordinances and state statutes for the sale and consumption
of CMB, or beer, or alcoholic beverages, apply to holders of temporary permits;
and
   (f)   Provide proof of liability insurance in the minimum amount of
$100,000.
(Ord. 678-25, passed 12-8-2025)
§ 3-705 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This article shall take effect and be in force from and after the later of:
   (a)   The date of the summary publication in “The Harvey County Now,” the
official newspaper of the city; and
   (b)   January 1, 2026.
(Ord. 678-25, passed 12-8-2025)
ARTICLE 8: SPECIAL EVENT CMB PERMITS
Section
   
3-801   Special event CMB permits; permit required
   
3-802   Same; permit fee
   
3-803   Same; city special event permit
   
3-804   Same; permit regulations
§ 3-801 SPECIAL EVENT CMB PERMITS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or serve any cereal malt
beverage at any special event within the city without first obtaining a local
special event permit from the City Clerk.
(K.S.A. 41-2703)
§ 3-802 SAME; PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a special event permit fee in the amount of $25
on each group or individual, which fee shall be paid before the event begins.
Such fee shall be in addition to the $25 fee to be remitted to the Division of
Alcohol Beverage Control.
   (b)   Every special event permit holder shall cause the permit receipt to be
placed in plain view on any premises within the city where the holder of the
special event permit is serving CMB for consumption on the premises.
(K.S.A. 41-2702)
§ 3-803 SAME; CITY SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or serve cereal malt
beverages at a special event without first applying for a local special event
permit at least 45 days before the event. Written application for the local
special event permit shall be made to the City Clerk on the form used for
annual cereal malt beverage sales or, when available, the special event CMB
permit application approved by the Attorney General, as directed by the City
Clerk.
      (2)   In addition to any other information required, the applicant shall
provide the following:
         (A)   The name of the applicant;
         (B)   The group for which the event is planned;
         (C)   The location of the event;
         (D)   The date and time of the event; and
         (E)   Any anticipated need for police, fire or other municipal
services.
   (b)   Upon meeting the requirements to obtain a special event permit, the
City Clerk shall issue a local special event permit to the applicant if there
are no conflicts with any zoning or other ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall notify the Chief of Police whenever a special
event permit has been issued and forward a copy of the permit and application
to the Chief of Police.
§ 3-804 SAME; PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No special event permit holder shall allow the serving of cereal malt
beverage between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. at any event for which a
special event permit has been issued.
   (b)   No cereal malt beverage shall be given, sold or traded to any person
under 21 years of age.
   (c)   Not more than four special event permits may be issued in a calendar
year to the same applicant.
   (d)   No special event permit issued hereunder may be transferred or
assigned to any other vendor.
   (e)   All local ordinances and state statutes for the sale and consumption
of cereal malt beverage apply to holders of special event permits.
(K.S.A. 41-2703)
ARTICLE 9: KEG REGISTRATION
Section
   
3-901   Definitions
   
3-902   Retailer duties
   
3-903   Purchaser requirements
   
3-904   Identification requirements
   
3-905   Deposit refund
   
3-906   Violations
§ 3-901 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER. A beverage containing more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, obtained by
alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or concoction of barley or other grain,
malt and hops in water, and includes beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and
similar beverages having such alcoholic content.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Any fermented but undistilled liquor brewed or made
from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt substitute, but does not include
any such liquor which is more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   KEG. A reusable container of beer or cereal malt beverage having a liquid
capacity of four or more gallons.
   LEGAL AGE FOR CONSUMPTION. Twenty-one years of age.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, trust or association.
   PROPER PROOF OF IDENTIFICATION. A photographic motor vehicle operator’s
license, a valid passport, a United States military identification card, a
state photographic non-driver’s identification card or other official, or
apparently official, document containing a photograph, signature and birth date
of the person.
   RETAILER. A person who sells at retail, or offers for sale at retail, beer
or cereal malt beverage for use or consumption and not for resale in any form,
and includes sales of beer or cereal malt beverage in a keg returnable to the
seller. Such terms shall not refer to or mean sales by a distributor or sales
by one retailer to another.
   SELL or SELL AT RETAIL. Sales of beer or cereal malt beverage for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form, and includes sales of beer or
cereal malt beverage in a keg returnable to the seller. Such terms shall not
refer to or mean sales by a distributor or sales by one retailer to another.
§ 3-902 RETAILER DUTIES.
   A retailer, or retailer’s employee or agent, prior to or at the time of any
sale at retail of a keg, shall:
   (a)   Affix or cause to be affixed to the keg a keg identification tag, in
accordance with the provisions of §
3-904;
   (b)   Require the purchaser to exhibit proper proof of identification. If
the purchaser fails to provide such proof of identification, the retailer shall
refuse to sell the keg to such person;
   (c)   Require the purchaser to sign a declaration and receipt for the keg in
the form provided for in §
3-904;
   (d)   Record on the declaration the keg identification tag number, the date
of sale, the purchaser’s name and address and the type, number and expiration
date of the purchaser’s identification;
   (e)   Inform the purchaser that any deposit paid by the purchaser for the
keg, if required, shall be forfeited if the keg is returned without the
original keg identification tag intact and readable;
   (f)   Require each purchaser of any such keg to acknowledge as part of the
declaration that persons under 21 are not of legal age for consumption of beer
or cereal malt beverage and that the declaration is subject to inspection by
law enforcement personnel; and
   (g)   Provide a copy of the declaration and receipt to the purchaser.
§ 3-903 PURCHASER REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person who purchases a keg or the contents thereof shall:
   (a)   Be of legal age to purchase, possess or use beer and cereal malt
beverage;
   (b)   Provide proof of identification and such other information as the
retailer may require in accordance with §
3-902;
   (c)   Sign a declaration and receipt in the form required by §
3-902;
   (d)   Not allow any person under the age of 21 to consume the keg contents
except as allowed by law;
   (e)   Not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or obliterated the keg
identification tag required by §
3-902; and
   (f)   Maintain a copy of the declaration and receipt with the keg during the
time the keg is in the purchaser’s possession or control.
§ 3-904 IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   The keg identification tag required under this article shall be in the
form of a uniquely numbered and coded tag or label, prescribed and furnished by
the City Clerk. Such tag or label is used for a single sale of the marked keg
and is to be removed from the keg by the retailer upon return of the keg to the
retail seller and maintained with the records of the sale. Such tags shall be
fabricated and made attachable in such a manner as to make the tag removable
for the purpose of the cleaning and reusing of the keg by a manufacturer.
   (b)   The declaration and receipt required shall be on a form prescribed and
furnished by the City Clerk and shall include the information as required by §§
3-902 and
3-903 thereof, and may include such other identifying information as the City
Clerk may deem necessary and appropriate.
   (c)   Retailers may apply for and receive keg identification tags and
declaration and receipt forms from the City Clerk upon submittal of an
application on a form as prescribed by the City Clerk and such proof as may be
required by the City Clerk that the applicant is duly licensed to sell beer or
cereal malt beverages in a keg. The City Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for
furnishing the tags and forms required by this article not to exceed the actual
cost of furnishing such tags and forms.
   (d)   The retailer shall retain a copy of all such declarations and receipts
required on the retailer’s licensed premises for a period of six months. Such
declarations and receipts shall be available for inspection and copying by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours for the purpose of
identifying persons suspected of a violation of law.
   (e)   Falsifying any information on a declaration and receipt shall be a
violation of this section.
§ 3-905 DEPOSIT REFUND.
   No retailer may refund any deposit upon return of a keg that:
   (a)   Does not have the required identification tag; or
   (b)   Has an identification tag that has been defaced to the extent that the
information contained on the tag cannot be read.
§ 3-906 VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Remove from a keg all or part of a keg identification tag required
pursuant to this article;
      (2)   Deface a keg identification tag to the extent the information
contained on the tag cannot be read;
      (3)   Fail to return a keg within ten days of the due date; or
      (4)   Possess a keg that does not have the keg identification tag.
   (b)   Provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to a
manufacturer, distributor or retailer, and division (a)(4) above shall not
apply to any person who finds a discarded keg on such person’s property.
CHAPTER IV: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
   Article
      
1.   FIRE LIMITS
      
2.   BUILDING CODE
      
3.   ELECTRICAL CODE
      
4.   PLUMBING AND GAS-FITTING CODE
      
5.   MOVING BUILDINGS
      
6.   DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
      
7.   RESIDENTIAL CODE
      
8.   EXISTING BUILDING CODE
      
9.   MECHANICAL CODE
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: FIRE LIMITS
Section
   
4-101   Fire limits established
§ 4-101 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The following shall be and are hereby declared to be the fire limits of the
city: [Reserved].
ARTICLE 2: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
4-201   International Building Code incorporated
   
4-202   Board of Appeals
   
4-203   Deletions and amendments to International Building Code
   
4-204   Additional interim amendments to the International Building Code
   
4-205   Building permits required
   
4-206   Application for permit
   
4-207   Same; alternate procedure
   
4-208   Same; Phase I, Site Work
   
4-209   Same; Phase II, Footing, Foundation, Structural Frame and Bearing Walls
   
4-210   Same; Phase III, Completion of Project
   
4-211   Plot diagram
   
4-212   Civil penalties
   
4-213   Fees; building permits
   
4-214   Same; wrecking permits
   
4-215   Same; mechanical equipment
   
4-216   Substantiation of valuation; exemption
   
4-217   Contractor; defined
   
4-218   Same; responsibility
   
4-219   Same; license required
   
4-220   Same; licensing renewal
   
4-221   Same; Class A license
   
4-222   Same; Class B license
   
4-223   Same; Class C license
   
4-224   Same; Class D license
   
4-225   Wrecking contractor’s license
   
4-226   Insurance required
   
4-227   Revocation of license
   
4-228   Exemptions
Cross-reference:
   Additional contractor licensing provisions, see
Ch. V, Art. 3
   Existing Building Code, see Ch.
IV, Art. 8
§ 4-201 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, for the purpose of providing
minimum regulations for the construction, erection, remodeling, alteration,
repair or expansion of any building or structure, the “International Building
Code” (IBC), 2024 Edition, including all appendices to each, prepared and
published in book form by the International Code Council, Inc., except such
articles, sections, parts or portions as are hereinafter omitted, deleted,
modified or changed. Any errata officially published by the International Code
Council, Inc., shall become part of the IBC when placed on file with the City
Clerk. If any conflict or discrepancy exists between this article and the
referenced IBC, the provisions of this article shall rule. No fewer than two
copies of the IBC shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by
Ordinance No. 673-25,” with all sections or portions thereof intended to be
deleted, changed or amended clearly marked, and to which shall be attached a
copy of this ordinance and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection
and available to the public at all reasonable hours. All administrative
departments of the city charged with the enforcement of the ordinance shall be
supplied, at the cost of the city, such number of official copies of such IBC
similarly marked, deleted and changed as may be expedient.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-202 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Any appeal or request for variance from the Building Code shall be made to
the Board of Appeals as set forth and pursuant to the procedures of the
relevant sections of the Zoning Regulations.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-203 DELETIONS AND AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   Deletions and amendments to the International Building Code are as set out
in Ord. 673-25, incorporated herein by reference as if set out in full.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-204 ADDITIONAL INTERIM AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   (a)   The IBC is further hereby amended such that any references therein to
the International Electrical Code and the International Plumbing Code are
hereby amended to refer instead, respectively, to the National Electrical Code
incorporated by §
4-302 and to the International Plumbing Code incorporated by §
4-402, respectively.
   (b)   If any such references to the International Electrical Code or to the
International Plumbing Code are to specific sections thereof, the Building
Official shall determine what the appropriate corresponding reference is to the
provisions of the National Electrical Code or the International Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-205 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do, cause or permit to be done any
construction or any erection of any building or structure, or to do, cause or
permit to be done any remodeling, demolition in part or in whole, alteration or
expansion of any building or structure, without first obtaining a building
permit as required by this Building Code; provided however, that no building
permit will be required for non-structural repairs and remodeling which has a
total value of less than $1,000. Total value is determined by repairs not to
include mechanical, plumbing and electrical.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-206 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (a)   (1)   No permit shall be issued for a building or addition of a public
or semi-public nature, such as office buildings, apartment buildings exceeding
eight units, churches exceeding 250 seating capacity, schools, hospitals,
museums, libraries, art galleries, theaters, state buildings and any buildings
where the cost of such is $30,000 or more, except single- or two-family
dwellings, unless the plans and specifications therefor shall have been made by
a licensed architect or licensed engineer who has submitted a sworn affidavit
and such plans and specifications have been prepared in compliance with this
Ch. IV.
      (2)   The application for the permit shall be accompanied by a copy of
specifications and of plans drawn to scale with sufficient clarity and detailed
dimensions to show the nature and character of the work to be performed. The
Building Inspector may waive the requirements for filing plans when the work
involved is of a minor nature.
   (b)   No permit shall be issued for an industrial building or addition
thereto, such as a warehouse, storage plant, public garage, factory, power
house, laboratory, refinery, packing plant, refrigeration plant, dyeing or
cleaning plant, laundry, railway freight depot or shed, grain elevator, mill
and any heavily loaded structure, or for any other type of industrial building
or structure containing a total of 3,500 square feet or more of floor space,
unless and until the following requirements are satisfied.
      (1)   The plans and specifications have been made by a licensed architect
or by a licensed engineer and submitted to the Building Official.
      (2)   There shall be included on the plot plan, filed as above required,
a diagram showing designated fire lanes approved by the Fire Code Official
permitting ingress and egress of firefighting and other emergency equipment to
the proposed improvement to be constructed.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-207 SAME; ALTERNATE PROCEDURE.
   As an alternate procedure for the application for building permit, a permit
may be issued for each of a three-phase project plan meeting the requirements
set out below, but no work shall be commenced on any phase until the
appropriate permit has been issued.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-208 SAME; PHASE I, SITE WORK.
   A permit for Phase I, Site Work, shall be issued upon payment of the permit
fee and meeting the following requirements:
   (a)   The proposed site must be properly zoned for intended occupancy;
   (b)   The contractor must be licensed in the city for all phases of
construction;
   (c)   Submittal and approval of the site development plan as required by
Article IX of the Zoning Ordinance, and including the following:
      (1)   The legal description and survey of the site;
      (2)   Size and location of all buildings on the site;
      (3)   Access from streets and site drainage;
      (4)   Parking layout, number of spaces, pavement standard and area
lighting;
      (5)   All on-site utilities existing and proposed;
      (6)   Landscaping, fencing and signing; and
      (7)   Any additional information required to ensure the proper
development of the site.
   (d)   The Phase I permit fee shall be $15 plus a sum equal to 25% of the
estimated total permit fee.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-209 SAME; PHASE II, FOOTING, FOUNDATION, STRUCTURAL FRAME AND BEARING
WALLS.
   A permit for Phase II, Footings, Foundation, Structural Frame and Load
Bearing Walls, shall be issued upon payment of the permit fee and meeting the
following requirements:
   (a)   Approval of complete foundations and structural plans submitted and
sealed by a state-licensed architect or engineer; and
   (b)   The Phase II permit fee shall be $15, plus a sum equal to 25% of the
estimated total permit fee.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-210 SAME; PHASE III, COMPLETION OF PROJECT.
   A permit for Phase III, Completion of Project, shall be issued upon payment
of the permit fee and meeting the following requirements:
   (a)   Approval of the complete architectural plans and specifications,
including structural, mechanical, plumbing and electrical designs, submitted
and sealed by a state-licensed architect or engineer; and
   (b)   The Phase III permit fee shall be the remaining unpaid balance of the
total permit fee.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-211 PLOT DIAGRAM.
   (a)   There shall also be filed a plot plan showing, to a scale of not
smaller than one to 100 (1:100), the size and location of all the new
construction and all existing structures on the site, distances from lot lines
and the established sheet grades; and it shall be drawn in accordance with an
accurate boundary line survey. In the case of demolition, the plot plan shall
show all construction to be demolished and the location and size of all
existing buildings and construction that are to remain on the site or plot. The
plot plan as to all new construction shall be accompanied by a certified
boundary survey of the property.
   (b)   When lot corner elevations have been established by a drainage or
grading plan, a certified certificate of elevation shall be submitted prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the project.
   (c)   The legal street number shall be prominently displayed during
construction.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-212 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (a)   The Building Official shall have the authority and discretion to waive
civil penalties upon a showing of hardship or excusable neglect.
   (b)   For all work in which a permit is required, any person, firm or
corporation who does any work without a permit is subject to civil penalties as
follows:
      (1)   First offense: $250 and double building permit fee;
      (2)   Second offense: $500 and double building permit fee; and
      (3)   Third offense: $1,000 and revocation of local license for one
calendar year.
   (c)   (1)   For all work in which a permit is required, any person, firm or
corporation who fails to report the permitted work as ready for inspection when
completed shall pay a civil penalty. Permitted work shall be reported to the
Building Official within ten days of completion or by the expiration of the
permit. In no circumstances should additional work be performed that interferes
with the ability of the Building Official to inspect the permitted work.
      (2)   Civil penalties for failure for inspection are as follows:
         (A)   First offense: $100;
         (B)   Second offense: $500; and
         (C)   Third offense: $1,000 and revocation of local license.
   (d)   The payment of civil penalties shall not relieve any person from fully
complying with the requirements of this Building Code in the execution of the
work nor from any other penalties prescribed herein.
   (e)   Any person, firm or corporation subject to a civil penalty described
in this section can appeal said penalty to the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-213 FEES; BUILDING PERMITS.
   (a)   The fee for the issuance of a building permit for any new
construction, for additions to existing buildings or for building repairs or
alterations shall be in the amount provided below.
Building Permit Fee Schedule
Project Valuation Building Permit Fee
Building Permit Fee Schedule
Project Valuation      Building Permit Fee
$1 to $500             $22.43
$501 to $2,000         $22.43 for the first $500, plus
                       $2.99 for each additional $100 or fraction thereof
$2,001 to $25,000      $67.28 for the first $2,000, plus
                       $11.96 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
$25,001 to $50,000     $342.36 for the first $25,000, plus
                       $8.97 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
$50,001 to $100,000    $566.61 for the first $50,000, plus
                       $5.98 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
$100,001 to $500,000   $865.61 for the first $100,000, plus
                       $4.49 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
$500,001 to $1,000,000 $2,661.61 for the first $500,000, plus
                       $3.74 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
$1,000,001 and up      $4,531.22 for the first $1,000,000, plus
                       $2.99 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
 
   (b)   The determination of the value or valuation shall be made by the
Building Official. The value to be used in computing the building permit fees
shall be the total value of all construction work for which the permit is
issued, including labor, as well as all finish work, painting, roofing,
electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, elevators, fire extinguishing
systems and any other permanent equipment.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-214 SAME; WRECKING PERMITS.
   (a)   Five hundred square feet or less floor area: $20;
   (b)   Five hundred and one square feet to 1,000 square feet: $30; and
   (c)   Over 1,000 square feet: add $1.50 for each additional 1,000 square
feet or fraction thereof.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-215 SAME; MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   Automatic sprinkler system and standpipes: $50;
   (b)   Elevator installations (including gates, doors, repairs): $75;
   (c)   Escalator: $75; and
   (d)   Motorized stairs: $20.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-216 SUBSTANTIATION OF VALUATION; EXEMPTION.
   The Building Official shall, when deemed necessary by him or her, require
reasonable substantiation of valuation stated in any application for permit or
any other form that may be prescribed. Permit fees required by other sections
of the city code for mechanical, plumbing and electrical installation necessary
to the proper function of the building shall be in addition to the fees
required by §§
4-213 to
4-228. Any work requiring a permit done under the jurisdiction of the City
Administrator, and any public work done by the United States Government, shall
be exempt from this section. Every permit issued by the Administrative
Authority under the provisions of this article and of the Building Code shall
expire by limitation and become null and void if the work authorized by such
permit is not commenced within six months from the date of issuance of such
permit, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at
any time after the work is commenced for a period of six months. Before such
work may be recommenced, a new permit shall be first obtained to do so.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-217 CONTRACTOR; DEFINED.
   A CONTRACTOR, within the meaning of this Building Code, is any person who
undertakes, or who advertises or otherwise represents to the public to have the
capacity or ability to undertake, with or for another, to build, construct,
alter, repair, add to, wreck or demolish in part or in whole any building or
structure or any portion thereof, either on his or her own or other property
for the purpose of speculation, within the city, for which a permit is required
by this Building Code, for a fixed price, fee, percentage or other compensation
other than wages.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-218 SAME; RESPONSIBILITY.
   A contractor shall be responsible for all work included in his or her
contract whether or not such work is done by him or her directly or by a
subcontractor. He or she shall be responsible for all funds or property
received by him or her for prosecution or completion of a specific contract or
for a specific purpose.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-219 SAME; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Requirement.
      (1)   No building permit shall be issued to any person who has not first
obtained a license or who is delinquent in payment of his or her annual license
fee, or whose license has been suspended by action of the Board of Appeals.
      (2)   It shall be further unlawful for any person to enter into a
contract with another so as to bring himself or herself under the
classification of a contractor, as defined in §
4-217, or to perform any work as a contractor, or any work under contract,
without having first obtained a contractor’s license.
   (b)   Exceptions. Any person shall have the right to do his or her own
building, remodeling, altering and additions to a structure in a single-family
residence which they own and in which they live without procuring a license and
an indemnity bond as required by this article. In all other respects, such
person and construction work shall be subject to the provisions of this article
as to installation, the procurement of a permit, inspections and payment of the
inspection fees.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-220 SAME; LICENSING RENEWAL.
   All contractor licenses shall expire on the last day of December and must be
renewed annually by payment of the annual fee by the end of January. Any
contractor failing to renew his or her license by the prescribed date shall be
required to be re-examined and approved by the Board. Fees shall not be
prorated because part of the year has elapsed.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-221 SAME; CLASS A LICENSE.
   A Class A contractor’s license shall entitle the holder to construct and to
perform any act as a contractor, as defined in §
4-217, for the building, remodeling or repairing of any structure or addition
thereto that is permitted by the title. The annual fee shall be $200.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-222 SAME; CLASS B LICENSE.
   A Class B contractor’s license shall entitle the holder to contract for or
to perform any act as a contractor, as defined in §
4-217, but which is limited to construction and remodeling of commercial
buildings and single- or multiple-dwelling residential buildings not exceeding
three stories in height. The annual fee shall be $150.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-223 SAME; CLASS C LICENSE.
   A Class C contractor’s license shall entitle the holder to contract for or
to perform any act as a contractor, as defined in §
4-217, but which is limited to construction, remodeling, repair or improvement
of one, two or three family residences not exceeding two stories in height and
non-structural commercial remodeling. The annual license fee shall be $125.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-224 SAME; CLASS D LICENSE.
   A Class D contractor’s license shall entitle the holder to contract for or
to perform any act as a contractor, as defined in §
4-217, but which is limited to remodeling and repairs on one- to four-family
residences, including, but not limited to, reroofing, residing, foundation
repair and interior partitions. The annual license fee shall be $125.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-225 WRECKING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE.
   (a)   A wrecking contractor’s license shall entitle the holder to contract
for or to wreck any building and to deal in second-hand building material. All
wrecking shall be done by licensed contractors, except:
      (1)   A licensed building contractor of Class A, B, C or D may obtain a
wrecking permit without a wrecking contractor’s license;
      (2)   The owner of a structure not exceeding 1,000 square feet in total
area of all floors may obtain a wrecking permit for such structure without a
wrecking contractor’s license, provided he or she takes part in and
responsibility for the demolition; and
      (3)   Any structure 500 square feet or less which is not served by city
water or sewer may be demolished without obtaining a wrecking license or a
wrecking permit.
   (b)   The annual license fee shall be $30.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-226 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Each applicant for and holder of any contractor’s license as provided
under this article shall submit and at all times maintain current certificate
or certificates of insurance, each with a clause providing for notice to the
City Clerk not less than ten days prior to any cancellation thereof, which such
proof of insurance must be submitted to and approved by the City Clerk as to
the following required insurance coverage, to wit:
      (1)   Workers compensation insurance for all employees to be engaged in
work on any site regulated by the codes of the International Code Council in
the form as now or hereafter adopted by the city; and
      (2)   Comprehensive general liability insurance in an amount not less
than $500,000 for each occurrence and aggregate, for bodily injury and property
damage combined, for Class A and Class B licenses, and in an amount not less
than $300,000 for each occurrence and aggregate, for bodily injury and property
damage combined, for Class C, Class D and wrecking contractor’s licenses;
provided, however, that a Class D license holder who only works on his or her
own property may obtain an indemnity bond in the amount of $5,000, approved and
filed as above, in lieu of such liability insurance.
   (b)   Failure to maintain current proof of such insurance shall be cause for
the revocation of such license.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-227 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The Building Official may revoke or suspend the license of a
contractor upon his or her own motion or upon verified complaint in writing
from any person. The Building Official shall serve a five-day written notice,
mailed to the contractor’s last known address, and require said contractor to
appear before the Board of Appeals.
   (b)   The Board shall have the power to temporarily suspend or permanently
revoke the contractor’s license if the Board finds that the contractor has
committed any of the following acts or omissions:
      (1)   Willful and deliberate disregard and violation of the provisions of
this Building code or any other ordinance of the city, or failure to comply
with any lawful order of the Building Official;
      (2)   Failure to pay annual license fee;
      (3)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by the applicant in obtaining
a contractor’s license or in obtaining a building permit;
      (4)   Fraudulent use of license to obtain building permits for other
persons;
      (5)   Failure to obtain permits as required by §§
4-205 to
4-216;
      (6)   Failure to appear before the Board after notice given as required
above; and
      (7)   Upon a determination by a court of competent jurisdiction that the
contractor has divested funds on property received for performance or
completion of any contract to the use and purpose of any other contract, or
failure, neglect or refusal to use such funds or property for the performance
and completion of such contract, or that the contractor has committed a
fraudulent act resulting in substantial injury to another.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-228 EXEMPTIONS.
   Sections
4-218 through
4-227 shall not apply to the following:
   (a)   Subcontractors working for and under the supervision of a general
contractor;
   (b)   Plumbers, electricians or other specialized trades for which special
licenses or bonds are required; and
   (c)   Any owner or his or her authorized agent making ordinary repairs to
any building, which repairs do not involve the structure of the building and on
which a contractor is not employed.
(Ord. 673-25, passed 11-10-2025)
ARTICLE 3: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
4-301   Definitions
   
4-302   Adoption of Electrical Code by reference
   
4-303   Additional installation standards, amendments and provisions
   
4-304   Building Official; authority
   
4-305   Electrical Inspector; appointment
   
4-306   Same; duties
   
4-307   Same; powers
   
4-308   Same; right of entry
   
4-309   Clarification; modification
   
4-310   Electrical permit required; application; approval
   
4-311   Same; application information required
   
4-312   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-313   Same; fees
   
4-314   Same; posting
   
4-315   Request for inspection
   
4-316   Inspection; concealment of prior work
   
4-317   Inspection fee
   
4-318   Certificate of approval
   
4-319   Connection to installations
   
4-320   Reinspection
   
4-321   Condemnation; appeal
   
4-322   Interference by unauthorized person
   
4-323   Electrician or electrical contractors defined
   
4-324   Electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license required; electrical
permits; unlawful acts
   
4-325   Same; application; granting
   
4-326   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-327   Electrician’s or electrical contractor’s bond required; conditions;
approval; rights reserved
   
4-328   Insurance
   
4-329   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-330   Work by property owners
   
4-331   Approved materials
   
4-332   Liability
   
4-333   Severability
   
4-334   Violations and penalties
§ 4-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Chief Building Official, the Electrical Inspector
or his or her designee.
   AUTHORIZED PERSON. Any individual, firm or corporation who or which is
licensed under the provisions of this article to do the work as permitted under
the specified provisions of this article.
   CITY. The territory within the corporate limits of this city.
   CONDUCTOR. A wire or cable or other form of metal suitable for carrying the
electric current or potential.
   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION.
      (1)   Includes all work and materials used in installing, maintaining or
extending a system of electrical wiring and all appurtenances, apparatus or
equipment used in connection therewith, inside or attached to any building,
structure, lot or premises, except industrial plants where full-time
maintenance is provided and other agencies providing inspections of
installations and facilities.
      (2)   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION shall not be held to mean or include any of
the following:
         (A)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures, and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
         (B)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
         (C)   Any work in industrial establishments where inspections come
under the scope of other inspection agencies.
   EQUIPMENT. Conductors, materials, fittings, devices, appliances, fixtures,
apparatus, motors and the like, used as a part of or in connection with an
electrical installation.
   INSPECTOR. The Chief Building Official or any individual who has been
appointed by the city as Electrical Inspector.
   PERSON. A natural person, his or her heirs, executors, administrators or
assigns, and also includes a firm, partnership or corporation, its or their
successors, assigns or the agent of any of the aforesaid.
   SPECIAL PERMISSION. The written consent of the Chief Building Official or
the Electrical Inspector.
   SPECIAL RULING. A written ruling filed in the office of the Chief Building
Official or the Electrical Inspector.
§ 4-302 ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of providing
minimum regulations for the construction, installation, alteration, repair,
removal, use, location and maintenance of all electrical wiring, appliances or
devices for light, heat or power in the city the “National Electrical Code,”
2011 Edition, including any and all appendices thereto, as adopted by the
National Fire Protection Association, One Batterymarch Park, Quincy,
Massachusetts, 02269, and approved by the American National Standards
Institute. Any errata officially published by the International Association of
Electrical Inspectors shall become a part of the National Electrical Code when
placed on file by the administrative authority. If any conflict or discrepancy
exists between this article and the referenced National Electrical Code, the
provisions of this article shall rule. Not less than one copy of the National
Electrical Code shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by
Ordinance No. 580-14,” with all sections and portions thereof intended to be
omitted clearly marked to show such deletions or changes and to which shall be
attached a copy of this ordinance and filed with the City Clerk to be open to
inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours. All
administrative departments of the city charged with enforcement of the
ordinance shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such official copy of
such National Electrical Code similarly marked, deleted and changed as may be
expedient.
(Ord. 580-14, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 4-303 ADDITIONAL INSTALLATION STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Specific installation standards. For materials for wiring appliances
and equipment which conform to the standards of Underwriters Laboratories,
Inc., or authentic proof from a recognized testing laboratory that is equal to
or better than Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., requirements shall be prima
facie evidence that such material, device, appliance or equipment complies with
the requirements of this article. The maker’s name, trademark or other
identification symbol shall be placed on all electric materials, devices and
equipment installed under this article.
   (b)   Amendments to National Electrical Code. Amendments to the National
Electrical Code are as set out in Ord. 580-14, incorporated herein by reference
as if set out in full.
   (c)   Additional provisions. The following sections of this article are in
addition to the provisions of the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-302.
(Ord. 580-14, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 4-304 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her authorized designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article and
appointment of an Electrical Inspector.
§ 4-305 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Code Enforcement Officer may assume the responsibilities of or appoint
some qualified officer or employee of the city to be and perform the duties of
Electrical Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and approval of
the governing body.
§ 4-306 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to electrical construction,
alteration, repair or removal;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of electrical construction not provided for in this article, and may, for
the purpose of carrying out the intent of this article, adopt an accepted
standard of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus,
national, technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings requiring electrical construction in the
process of erection, construction, alteration or relocation in the city for the
purpose of determining whether the work is in compliance with the permit given
and in compliance with the regulations of the city pertaining to such work,
including zoning regulations; and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered and of notices or
orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official or Electrical Inspector without his or her written consent.
§ 4-307 SAME; POWERS.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the electrical regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any installer or owner to appeal to the governing body.
§ 4-308 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Electrical Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-309 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Electrical Code which may be unclear,
ambiguous or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Electrical Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Electrical Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code
is observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The
particulars of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the
Inspector thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Electrical Inspector
and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-310 ELECTRICAL PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in any electrical construction, as defined in §
4-301, within the city without an electrical permit being first obtained
therefor from the City Clerk, after approval by the Chief Building Official or
his or her duly authorized assistant. The application for such permit shall be
made and the permit obtained before any electrical construction work is
commenced.
   (b)   No electrical permit shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
      (2)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
      (3)   Any work in industrial establishments where the issuance of
electrical permits comes under the scope of other agencies.
§ 4-311 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   An electrical permit shall be issued upon an application in
writing to the office of the City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the
purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The electrical construction work proposed;
         (D)   The class of occupancy;
         (E)   The class of electrical construction;
         (F)   The kind of materials to be used;
         (G)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (H)   The date work will commence;
         (I)   Expected date of completion;
         (J)   Name and address of electrical contractor or contractors doing
the work; and
         (K)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   An application for an electrical permit shall be signed by the owner
or his or her duly authorized agent, or an electrician or electrical contractor
licensed by the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her
agent, it shall contain the name or names of the licensed electrician or
electrical contractor or contractors doing the work described, or an electrical
permit may be issued to the owner upon his or her application disclosing
satisfactory evidence that the proposed work will be performed by the owner,
himself or herself and not by a licensed electrical contractor, and likewise
subject to the final approval of the Electrical Inspector for work performed.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application and a determination that a
permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or his or her assistant
shall issue a permit to the owner, electrician or electrical contractor
authorizing the electrical construction work covered by the application.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the electrical
construction work authorized by such permit. ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION WORK
COMMENCED, for the purpose of this section, shall mean the beginning of
electrical construction work other than the preparation of plans or the letting
of an electrical contract.
§ 4-312 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for an electrical permit is made, the Chief Building
Official or the Electrical Inspector may, if he or she finds it necessary to
determine whether electrical construction work described in the application
will comply with the laws pertaining to such work, require that the applicant
file a written description or drawing of the proposed electrical construction
as may be prepared for the purpose. If such drawing or description is
insufficient for the purposes of determining whether a permit should be issued,
the Building Official may require the applicant to file complete electrical and
engineering plans and specifications for such electrical construction, or any
part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to determine compliance
with this article. The filing of such plans and specifications and the approval
thereof in connection with an application for a permit shall not in any way
affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a permit, or to inspect any
electrical construction work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-313 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for an electrical permit shall be $20. The fee herein shall be paid
to the City Clerk upon obtaining an electrical permit and the same shall be
credited to the General Operating Fund of the city.
§ 4-314 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the electrical permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Electrical Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved
plans to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work
to the completion thereof.
§ 4-315 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any electrical work covered by this article, it shall
be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the Electrical Inspector
and request that it be inspected, after which such work shall be inspected
promptly as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-316 INSPECTION; CONCEALMENT OF PRIOR WORK.
   (a)   When any electric equipment is to be hidden from view by the permanent
placement of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing
the equipment shall notify the Building Inspector and such equipment shall not
be concealed until it has been inspected, approved or authorized by the
Electrical Inspector or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays, shall have elapsed from the time of such notification. On large
installations, where the concealment of equipment proceeds continuously, the
person, firm or corporation installing the electrical equipment shall give the
Electrical Inspector due notice and inspections shall be made periodically
during the progress of the work.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector shall have the authority to require building
contractors to open such work which in any manner conceals electrical wiring
that has been closed without his or her knowledge or permission, and in no case
shall the Inspector issue a certificate of approval until satisfied that the
work is in accordance with the provisions of this article. The Inspector shall
also have the right to refuse to issue a certificate of approval on any wiring
that is concealed in such manner that it cannot be fully determined that it has
been done in accordance with this article.
§ 4-317 INSPECTION FEE.
   There is no initial inspection fee. An inspection fee of $80 for subsequent
inspections required shall be paid before any electrical installation will be
approved or a certificate of approval issued.
§ 4-318 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (a)   When the Electrical Inspector finds an electrical construction or
installation to be in conformity with the provisions of this article, he or she
shall issue to the person, firm or corporation performing the electrical
construction work or making the installation a certificate of approval, with
duplicate copy for delivery to the owner, authorizing the use of the
installation and connection to the supply of electricity.
   (b)   When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection
and use of a temporary installation, the certificate shall expire at a time to
be stated therein and shall be revocable for cause by the Electrical Inspector.
   (c)   In no case shall certificates of approval be issued on electrical
construction, installations or parts of installations where the work installed
does not conform to the requirements of this article.
   (d)   If, upon inspection, the installation is not found to be fully in
conformity with the provisions of this article, the Electrical Inspector shall
immediately notify the person, firm or corporation performing the electrical
construction work or making the installation of the existing defects.
   (e)   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the electric
conductor or equipment has been installed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this article and unless the electrical construction or
installation is made in compliance with nationally approved methods of
construction for safety to life and property as herein set forth.
   (f)   The Electrical Inspector shall be deemed the judge of whether the
installation of electric conductors and equipment has been made in accordance
with the requirements of this article.
   (g)   No certificate of approval shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
      (2)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
      (3)   Any work in industrial establishments where inspections come under
the scope of other inspection agencies.
§ 4-319 CONNECTION TO INSTALLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make connection
to a supply of electricity to any building or electrical equipment for which an
inspection is required, or which has been disconnected by the order of the
Electrical Inspector, until a certificate of approval has been issued by the
Electrical Inspector authorizing the connection and use of such electric
supply. The Electrical Inspector may, at his or her discretion, authorize a
temporary connection.
§ 4-320 REINSPECTION.
   The Electrical Inspector shall periodically reinspect existing installations
of electrical conductors and equipment. When the installation of any conductors
or equipment is found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition, the person,
firm or corporation owning, using or operating the installation shall be
notified in writing and shall make the necessary repairs or changes required to
place the conductors or equipment in safe condition and have the work completed
within the period specified by the Electrical Inspector.
§ 4-321 CONDEMNATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   If, in the judgment of the Electrical Inspector, after an inspection
any electrical conductors, appliances or equipment in any building are unsafe
or dangerous to persons or property, the Inspector shall have the power to
cause the wires or appliances to be disconnected from the source of electrical
energy supplying these conductors or equipment, and may, at his or her
discretion, seal the control switches for the same in an open or disconnected
position, whereupon he or she shall give notice to the owner, or his or her
agent, or by posting such notice at the site, and shall also notify the
utilities serving the premises. Thereafter, it shall be unlawful for any person
to cause or permit electric current to be supplied to the electrical
conductors, appliances or equipment so sealed until they shall have been made
safe and the Inspector shall have issued a certificate of approval to that
effect.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to cause all dead
wires, unused poles or electric apparatus on the outside of the buildings or in
streets or alleys to be removed at the expense of the owners thereof by giving
the owners written notice.
   (c)   When the Electrical Inspector condemns all or part of any electrical
installation, the owner may, within ten days after receiving written notice
thereof, file a petition in writing for review of the action of the Building
Inspector by the governing body, upon the receipt of which the governing body
shall at once proceed to determine the facts, and within ten days from
receiving the petition make a decision in accordance with their findings.
§ 4-322 INTERFERENCE BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to, in any manner, change
or alter electrical conductors or equipment in or on any building. If, in the
course of the erection of a building or structure, electrical conductors or
equipment are in such position as to interfere with the erection or completion
of the structure, notice shall be immediately given to the authorized person or
firm installing the electrical conductors or equipment, and the needed change
shall be made by such authorized person or firm.
§ 4-323 ELECTRICIAN OR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS DEFINED.
   (a)   An ELECTRICIAN or ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR, for purposes of this article,
shall be any person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association or any
combination thereof, whether a resident or not of the city:
      (1)   Who or which undertakes with or for another, for a fixed sum,
price, fee or any other compensation, to install, construct, alter, repair, add
to or move any electrical installation or performs any electrical construction
work in the city for which an electrical construction permit may now or
hereafter be required by the laws of the city;
      (2)   Who or which advertises or represents himself, herself or itself to
the public to have the capacity or ability to undertake, or submit a bid or
offer to install, construct, alter, repair, add to, remove, restore or replace
any electrical installation or perform any electrical construction work; or
      (3)   Who or which installs, constructs, alters, adds to or removes any
electrical installation or performs any electrical construction work either on
his or her own or other property for purposes of sale or speculation.
   (b)   An ELECTRICIAN or ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR as defined shall not mean or
include:
      (1)   Any owner or his or her authorized agents or employees making
ordinary repairs to his, her or its own building or structure not involving
electrical construction and for which a permit is not required or on which an
electrician or electrical contractor, as defined, is not required, employed or
engaged to perform; or
      (2)   Any property owner personally performing any improvements,
alterations or electrical construction within or upon his or her own residence
and intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided,
the owner shall satisfy the Electrical Inspector as to his or her ability to
perform such work, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in accordance
with this article and apply for an inspection and receive approval. Personal
electrical construction by an owner under this section shall be by himself or
herself for himself or herself, on his or her own residence without
compensation, and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way
on such work except an electrician or electrical contractor licensed by the
city.
§ 4-324 ELECTRICIAN’S OR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; ELECTRICAL
PERMITS; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each electrician or electrical contractor shall, before entering upon
any electrical construction work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to
the City Clerk for an electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license and
receive the same as hereinafter provided and have in his or her possession a
valid license authorizing him, her or it to engage in the trade or occupation
of electrician or electrical contractor in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any electrical construction work shall be issued for any
such work to be performed by an electrician or electrical contractor, as
defined, who has not first obtained a license upon making a proper application
and payment of the license fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of an electrician or electrical
contractor herein, or to perform any work as an electrician or electrical
contractor or any work under a contract for any work involving electrical
construction, without first having obtained an electrician’s or electrical
contractor’s license issued by the city.
§ 4-325 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   (a)   Application for an electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license
shall be made upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the
name of the applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home
office if a nonresident), the kind of contracting work engaged in the length of
time engaged in such work, and places where work has been performed within the
past two years. The application shall be signed by the electrician or
electrical contractor or his or her authorized agent.
   (b)   The applications shall be, by the Chief Building Official, referred to
the governing body at its next meeting for action thereon. Such license shall
be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of the fees hereinafter provided,
after approval of the governing body.
§ 4-326 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The following license fees shall be paid for the calendar year
or for the major fraction thereof:
         (A)   General electrician or electrical contractor, who shall qualify
to engage in more than one kind of electrical construction work, the sum of
$50; and
         (B)   Limited electrician or electrical contractor, who shall qualify
to engage in not more than one kind of electrical construction work, the sum of
$50.
      (2)   Any license issued on or after July 1 of each year shall be issued
upon payment of one-half the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of electrical construction
work in which the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her
license at any place where he or she may be engaged in contract work or produce
the same on demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable
annually as in the case of an original license on or before January 1 of the
year for which issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
§ 4-327 ELECTRICIAN’S OR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR’S BOND REQUIRED; CONDITIONS;
APPROVAL; RIGHTS RESERVED.
   (a)   Before any license shall be issued to any electrician or electrical
contractor required by this article to obtain a license and pay a fee to the
city, the electrician or electrical contractor shall secure and file with the
City Clerk a good and sufficient corporate surety bond in a principal sum as
set by City Council, conditioned that the principal named therein shall
faithfully and fully observe all laws of the city relating to the business or
occupation for which a license is desired and further conditioned to hold and
save the city harmless and free of claims for loss or damage to persons or
property, or from damage, injury or destruction of property belonging to the
city, resulting from, or arising out of, the negligence or failure of the
principal or any of his, her or its employees, agents or servants to use due
care or diligence respecting any opening or excavation made in, or adjacent to,
any street, alley or public ground in the city, or any materials stored, placed
or used in any such places, or the operation or use of any vehicle, machinery
or equipment in the streets, alleys or public grounds in connection with the
business or occupation licensed. Each such bond shall be issued by a company
authorized to do business in the state and shall be executed by an agent of the
company residing in the county and further conditioned that in the event of
cancellation or expiration that the company or agent will give ten days’ notice
of such fact to the City Clerk. Each such bond shall be approved as to form by
the City Attorney and approved as to surety by the City Treasurer and the
approval thereof shall be endorsed on the bond by the City Attorney and by the
Mayor over their signatures.
   (b)   Each bond shall be dated to run from the first day of any license
issued by the city to the principal and may cover the period of not to exceed
two years. No bond shall be renewed by an extension certificate, but a new bond
shall be filed by the principal for each successive period following the
renewal thereof. The city reserves the right to furnish the form of all surety
bonds as may be required by this article.
§ 4-328 INSURANCE.
   In addition to obtaining a corporate surety bond as required by §
4-327, an electrician or electrical contractor must procure and maintain a
liability insurance policy in the amount of $100,000 for the death or injury of
any one person and $300,000 for the death or injury of any number of persons in
any one accident and $50,000 for property damage in any one accident. Such
policies of insurance shall be issued by some insurance company authorized to
do business in the state. An electrician or electrical contractor may qualify
as to the insurance requirements by filing a certificate with the City Clerk
executed by the resident agent of such company stating that the required policy
of insurance has been issued by such company for the purpose required by this
article and that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon giving 30
days’ notice in writing to the city; and that the certificate shall be filed
for an annual period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of such year.
§ 4-329 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any electrician or electrical contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Electrical Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such electrician or electrical
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such electrician or electrical contractor involving
any one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain an electrical permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any electrical construction work without a permit
where one is required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the electrical
construction laws, or failure to comply with any lawful order of the City
Electrical Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the governing
body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The governing body may upon such
hearing terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the electrician or
electrical contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period
of six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the suspension
or revocation of any electricians or electrical contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of
electrician or electrical contractor during the time any license of such
electrician or electrical contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-330 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
performing any electrical construction or installing electrical wiring or
equipment within and upon his or her own residence and intended for his or her
personal use and permanent occupancy; provided, the owner shall satisfy the
Electrical Inspector as to his or her ability to perform such work or install
such electrical wiring, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article and apply for an inspection and receive a
certificate of approval. Personal electrical construction or installation
performed by an owner under this section shall be by himself or herself for
himself or herself, on his or her own residence without compensation, and no
person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except an
electrician or electrical contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-331 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   No electric materials for wiring of appliances or equipment shall be
installed in the city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this
article and with the approved standards of construction for safety to life and
property. Conformity of materials for wiring appliances and equipment to the
standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., shall be prima facie evidence
that the materials, devices, appliances and equipment comply with the
requirements of this article.
§ 4-332 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability by reason of the inspection or re-inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval of any work or equipment authorized herein, or by
reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-333 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the National Electrical Code or of this article shall be
held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the
remaining provisions of the National Electrical Code or of this article. The
section is to be completely severable from the remaining provisions, which
shall continue in full force and effect.
§ 4-334 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this article is hereby declared to
be an offense, and any party, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any
sum not less than $10 nor more than $100 or be imprisoned not to exceed 30
days, or be both so fined and imprisoned, for each offense. Each day during
which any violation of any provision of this article is committed, continued or
permitted shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 580-14, passed 4-14-2014)
ARTICLE 4: PLUMBING AND GAS-FITTING CODE
Section
   
4-401   Definition
   
4-402   Uniform Plumbing Code incorporated
   
4-403   Additional deletions, amendments and provisions
   
4-404   Building Official; authority
   
4-405   Plumbing Inspector; appointment
   
4-406   Same; duties
   
4-407   Same; powers
   
4-408   Same; right of entry
   
4-409   Clarification; modification
   
4-410   Plumbing permit required; exception
   
4-411   Same; application information required
   
4-412   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-413   Same; fees
   
4-414   Same; posting
   
4-415   Request for inspection
   
4-416   Inspection; concealment of prior work
   
4-417   Inspection fee
   
4-418   Certificate of approval
   
4-419   Connection to gas or water supply
   
4-420   Condemnation; appeal
   
4-421   Plumber or plumbing contractor defined
   
4-422   Plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license required; plumbing permits;
unlawful acts
   
4-423   Same; application; granting
   
4-424   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-425   Plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s bond required; conditions; approval;
rights reserved
   
4-426   Insurance
   
4-427   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-428   Excavations
   
4-429   Work by property owners
   
4-430   Approved materials
   
4-431   Liability
   
4-432   Severability
   
4-433   Violations and penalties
§ 4-401   DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLUMBING. The installation of gas or water pipes, fixtures, apparatus and
the necessary connections either for supplying gas or water to premises or for
the removing of liquid and water-borne wastes from premises in the city, or
both such purposes, and shall also denote installed fixtures, drainage and vent
systems and gas or water distribution systems, as the case may be.
§ 4-402 UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, for the purpose of providing
minimum regulations for the installation, alteration, repair and maintenance of
plumbing and drainage systems, the “Uniform Plumbing Code,” 2009 Edition,
including all appendices, prepared and published in book form by the
International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, except such
articles, sections, parts or portions as are hereinafter omitted, deleted,
modified or changed. Any errata officially published by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials shall become part of the
Uniform Plumbing Code when placed on file by the administrative authority. If
any conflict or discrepancy exists between this article and the referenced
Uniform Plumbing Code, the provisions of this article shall rule. No fewer than
three copies of the Uniform Plumbing Code shall be marked or stamped “Official
Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 547-10,” with all sections or portions thereof
intended to be omitted clearly marked to show such deletion or change and to
which shall be attached a copy of this ordinance and filed with the City Clerk
to be open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours.
All administrative departments of the city charged with the enforcement of the
ordinance shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such number of official
copies of such Uniform Plumbing Code similarly marked, deleted and changed as
may be expedient.
(Ord. 547-10, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 4-403 ADDITIONAL DELETIONS, AMENDMENTS AND PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Deletions, amendments and additions to Uniform Plumbing Code.
Deletions, amendments and amendments to the Uniform Plumbing Code are as set
out in Ord. 547-10, incorporated herein by reference as if set out in full.
   (b)   Additional provisions. The following sections of this article are in
addition to the provisions of the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-402.
(Ord. 547-10, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 4-404 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her authorized designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article and
appointment of a Plumbing Inspector.
§ 4-405 PLUMBING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Code Enforcement Officer may assume the responsibilities of or appoint
some qualified officer or employee of the city to be and perform the duties of
Plumbing Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and approval of
the governing body.
§ 4-406 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to plumbing construction,
alteration, repair or removal;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction not provided for in this article, and may, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this article, adopt an accepted standard
of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus, national,
technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings in the process of erection, construction,
alteration or relocation in the city for the purpose of determining whether the
work is in compliance with the plumbing permit given and in compliance with the
regulations of the city pertaining to such work, including zoning regulations;
and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered and of notices or
orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official or Plumbing Inspector without his or her written consent.
§ 4-407 SAME; POWERS.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the plumbing regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any plumber, plumbing contractor or owner to appeal to the
governing body.
§ 4-408 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Plumbing Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-409 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Plumbing Code which may be unclear, ambiguous
or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   (1)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Plumbing Code, upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Plumbing Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code is
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done.
      (2)   The particulars of a modification when granted or allowed and the
decision of the Inspector thereon shall be entered upon the records of the
Plumbing Inspector and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-410 PLUMBING PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to install, alter or reconstruct any plumbing or
plumbing system, as defined by the Plumbing Code and §
4-401, in any building in the city without first making application to and
receiving a permit therefor from the City Clerk, after approval by the Chief
Building Official or his or her authorized assistant. The application for such
permit shall be made and the permit obtained before any plumbing work is
commenced.
   (b)   No permit shall be required for making minor repairs of any plumbing,
including repair of leaks in water pipes, traps or cocks, opening up stoppage
in waste or supply pipes, traps or drains, replacing fixtures when waste pipes
are not disturbed or replacing frozen pipes inside the building, and like
repair work not involving original installation or reconstruction.
§ 4-411 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   A plumbing permit shall be issued upon an application in writing
to the office of the City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The plumbing work proposed;
         (D)   The class of occupancy;
         (E)   The class of construction;
         (F)   The kind of materials to be used;
         (G)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (H)   The date work will commence;
         (I)   Expected date of completion;
         (J)   Name and address of plumber, plumbing contractor or contractors
doing the work; and
         (K)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   An application for a plumbing permit shall be signed by the owner or
his or her duly authorized agent, or a plumber or plumbing contractor licensed
by the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her agent, it
shall contain the name or names of the licensed plumber, plumbing contractor or
contractors doing the work described, or a plumbing permit may be issued to the
owner upon his or her application disclosing satisfactory evidence that the
proposed work will be performed by the owner, himself or herself and not by a
licensed plumber or plumbing contractor, and likewise subject to the final
approval of the Plumbing Inspector for work performed.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application and a determination that a
permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or his or her assistant
shall issue a permit to the owner or contractor authorizing the plumbing work
covered by the application.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the plumbing work
authorized by such permit. Plumbing work commenced for the purpose of this
section shall mean the beginning of plumbing work other than the preparation of
plans or the letting of a plumbing contract.
§ 4-412 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a plumbing permit is made, the Chief Building
Official or the Plumbing Inspector may, if he or she finds it necessary to
determine whether work described in the application will comply with the laws
pertaining to such work, require that the applicant file a written description
or drawing of the proposed plumbing construction as may be prepared for the
purpose. If such drawing or description is insufficient for the purposes of
determining whether a permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or
the Plumbing Inspector may require the applicant to file complete architectural
and engineering plans and specifications for such building or construction, or
any part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to determine compliance
with this article. The filing of such plans and specifications and the approval
thereof in connection with an application for a permit shall not in any way
affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a permit, or to inspect any
plumbing work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-413 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for a plumbing permit shall be $20. The fee herein shall be paid to
the City Clerk upon obtaining a plumbing permit and the same shall be credited
to the General Operating Fund of the city.
§ 4-414 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the plumbing permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Plumbing Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof.
§ 4-415 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any plumbing work covered by this article, it shall
be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the Plumbing Inspector and
request that it be inspected, after which such work shall be inspected promptly
as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-416 INSPECTION; CONCEALMENT OF PRIOR WORK.
   (a)   When any plumbing is to be hidden from view by the permanent placement
of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing the
plumbing shall notify the Plumbing Inspector and such equipment shall not be
concealed until it has been inspected, approved or authorized by the Plumbing
Inspector or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays,
shall have elapsed from the time of such notification. On large installations,
where the concealment of plumbing proceeds continuously, the person, firm or
corporation installing the plumbing shall give the Plumbing Inspector due
notice and inspections shall be made periodically during the progress of the
work.
   (b)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the authority to require owners or
contractors to open such work which, in any manner, conceals plumbing that has
been closed without his or her knowledge or permission, and in no case shall
the Inspector issue a certificate of approval until satisfied that the work is
in accordance with the provisions of this article. The Inspector shall also
have the right to refuse to issue a certificate of approval on any plumbing
that is concealed in such manner that it cannot be fully determined that it has
been done in accordance with this article.
§ 4-417 INSPECTION FEE.
   There is no initial inspection fee. An inspection fee of $80 for subsequent
inspections required shall be paid before any plumbing will be approved or a
certificate of approval issued.
§ 4-418 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (a)   When the Plumbing Inspector finds plumbing construction to be in
conformity with the provisions of this article, he or she shall issue to the
person, firm or corporation performing the plumbing construction a certificate
of approval, with duplicate copy for delivery to the owner, authorizing the use
of the plumbing system and connection to the supply of gas or water, as the
case may be.
   (b)   When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection
and use of a temporary gas or water supply, the certificate shall expire at a
time to be stated therein and shall be revocable for cause by the Plumbing
Inspector.
   (c)   In no case shall certificates of approval be issued on plumbing or
plumbing systems or parts of systems where the work installed does not conform
to the requirements of this article.
   (d)   If, upon inspection, the plumbing or plumbing system is not found to
be fully in conformity with the provisions of this article, the Plumbing
Inspector shall immediately notify the person, firm or corporation making the
installation of the existing defects.
   (e)   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the plumbing or
plumbing system has been installed in strict conformity with the provisions of
this article and unless the plumbing or plumbing system is made in compliance
with nationally approved methods of construction for safety to life and
property as herein set forth.
   (f)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be deemed the judge of whether the
plumbing or plumbing system has been made in accordance with the requirements
of this article.
   (g)   No certificate of approval shall be required for making minor repairs
of any plumbing, including repair of leaks in water pipes, traps or cocks,
opening up stoppage in waste or supply pipes, traps or drains, replacing
fixtures when waste pipes are not disturbed, or replacing frozen pipes inside
the building, and like repair work not involving original installation or
reconstruction.
§ 4-419 CONNECTION TO GAS OR WATER SUPPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make connection
to a supply of gas or water for which an inspection is required, or which has
been disconnected by the order of the Plumbing Inspector, until a certificate
of approval has been issued by the Plumbing Inspector authorizing the
connection and use of such plumbing or plumbing system. The Plumbing Inspector
may, at his or her discretion, authorize a temporary connection.
§ 4-420 CONDEMNATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   If in the judgment of the Plumbing Inspector, after inspection, the
plumbing or plumbing system in any building are unsafe or dangerous to persons
or property, the Inspector shall have the power to cause the plumbing or
plumbing system to be disconnected from the supply of gas or water and may, at
his or her discretion, seal the control valves for the same in a closed or
disconnected position, whereupon he or she shall give notice to the owner, or
his or her agent, or by posting such notice at the site, and shall also notify
the utilities serving the premises. Thereafter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to cause or permit gas or water to be supplied to the plumbing or
plumbing system so sealed until they shall have been made safe and the
Inspector shall have issued a certificate of approval to that effect.
   (b)   When the Plumbing Inspector condemns all or part of any plumbing
system, the owner may, within ten days after receiving written notice thereof,
file a petition in writing for review of the action of the Plumbing Inspector
by the governing body, upon the receipt of which the governing body shall at
once proceed to determine the facts, and within ten days from receiving the
petition make a decision in accordance with their findings.
§ 4-421 PLUMBER OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR DEFINED.
   (a)   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PLUMBER or PLUMBING CONTRACTOR.
         (A)   Any person engaged in the business of installing, altering,
maintaining or repairing plumbing, which shall include all materials and
plumbing fixtures, water pipes, portable water treatment equipment, traps,
drainage and vent piping and building drains, including their respective
points, connections, devices, receptacles and appurtenances located within the
property lines of any premises or in any building; and
         (B)   Any gas-fitter or person engaged in the business of installing,
altering or repairing fuel gas piping, gas systems or fixtures.
   (b)   (1)   A plumber or plumbing contractor as defined in division (a)
above shall not mean or include the owner of a residence who personally
installs plumbing piping or equipment within and upon his or her own residence
and intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided,
the owner shall satisfy the Plumbing Inspector as to his or her ability to
install such piping or equipment, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work
in accordance with this article and apply for an inspection and receive
approval.
      (2)   Personal installation by an owner under this section shall be by
himself or herself for himself or herself, on his or her own residence without
compensation, and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way
on such work except a plumber or plumbing contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-422 PLUMBER’S OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; PLUMBING PERMITS;
UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each plumber or plumbing contractor shall, before entering upon any
plumbing work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to the City Clerk for a
plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license and receive the same as hereinafter
provided and have in his or her possession a valid license authorizing him, her
or it to engage in the trade or occupation of a plumber or plumbing contractor
in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any plumbing work shall be issued for any such work to
be performed by a plumber or plumbing contractor, as defined, who has not first
obtained a license upon making a proper application and payment of the license
fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of a plumber or plumbing
contractor herein, or to perform any work as a plumber or plumbing contractor
or any work under a contract for any work involving plumbing construction,
without first having obtained a plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license
issued by the city.
§ 4-423 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   Application for a plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license shall be made
upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of the
applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a
nonresident), the kind of contracting work engaged in, the length of time
engaged in such work and places where work has been performed within the past
two years. The application shall be signed by the plumber or plumbing
contractor or his or her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the
Chief Building Official, referred to the governing body at its next meeting for
action thereon. Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of
the fees hereinafter provided, after approval of the governing body.
§ 4-424 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The following license fees shall be paid for the calendar year
or major fraction thereof:
         (A)   General plumber or plumbing contractor, who shall qualify to
engage in more than one kind of plumbing work, the sum of $50; and
         (B)   Limited plumber or plumbing contractor, who shall qualify to
engage in not more than one kind of plumbing work, the sum of $50.
      (2)   Any license issued on or after July 1 of each year shall be issued
upon payment of one-half the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of plumbing work in which
the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her license at any
place where he or she may be engaged in plumbing work or produce the same on
demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable annually as in the
case of an original license on or before January 1 of the year for which
issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
§ 4-425 PLUMBER’S OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR’S BOND REQUIRED; CONDITIONS; APPROVAL;
RIGHTS RESERVED.
   (a)   Before any license shall be issued to any plumber or plumbing
contractor required by this article to obtain a license and pay a fee to the
city, the plumber or plumbing contractor shall secure and file with the City
Clerk a good and sufficient corporate surety bond in a principal sum as set by
City Council, conditioned that the principal named therein shall faithfully and
fully observe all laws of the city relating to the business or occupation for
which a license is desired and further conditioned to hold and save the city
harmless and free of claims for loss or damage to persons or property, or from
damage, injury or destruction of property belonging to the city resulting from,
or arising out of, the negligence or failure of the principal or any of his,
her or its employees, agents or servants to use due care or diligence
respecting any opening or excavation made in, or adjacent to, any street, alley
or public ground in the city, or any materials stored, placed or used in any
such places, or the operation or use of any vehicle, machinery or equipment in
the streets, alleys or public grounds in connection with the business or
occupation licensed. Each such bond shall be issued by a company authorized to
do business in the state and shall be executed by an agent of the company
residing in the county and further conditioned that in the event of
cancellation or expiration that the company or agent will give ten days’ notice
of such fact to the City Clerk. Each such bond shall be approved as to form by
the City Attorney and approved as to surety by the City Treasurer and the
approval thereof shall be endorsed on the bond by the City Attorney and by the
Mayor over their signatures.
   (b)   Each bond shall be dated to run from the first day of any license
issued by the city to the principal and may cover the period of not to exceed
two years. No bond shall be renewed by an extension certificate but a new bond
shall be filed by the principal for each successive period following the
renewal thereof. The city reserves the right to furnish the form of all surety
bonds as may be required by this article.
§ 4-426 INSURANCE.
   In addition to obtaining a corporate surety bond as required by §
4-425, a plumber or plumbing contractor must procure and maintain a liability
insurance policy in the amount of $100,000 for the death or injury of any one
person and $300,000 for the death or injury of any number of persons in any one
accident and $50,000 for property damage in any one accident. Such policies of
insurance shall be issued by some insurance company authorized to do business
in the state. A plumber or plumbing contractor may qualify as to the insurance
requirements by filing a certificate with the City Clerk executed by the
resident agent of such company stating that the required policy of insurance
has been issued by such company for the purpose required by this article and
that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon giving 30 days’ notice
in writing to the city; and that the certificate shall be filed for an annual
period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of such year.
§ 4-427 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any plumber or plumbing contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Plumbing Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such plumber or plumbing
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such plumber or plumbing contractor involving any
one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain a plumbing permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of a permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any plumbing work without a permit where one is
required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the plumbing laws, or
failure to comply with any lawful order of the City Plumbing Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the governing
body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The governing body may, upon such
hearing, terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the plumber or
plumbing contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period of
six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in the event of the suspension
or revocation of any plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of plumber
or plumbing contractor during the time any license of such plumber or plumbing
contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-428 EXCAVATIONS.
   When it appears that the laying or repairing of any water or sewer pipes or
the making of any connection therewith shall require excavation in any street,
alley or public way of the city or the cutting or removal of any pavement, curb
or gutter or any sidewalk, during the course of such work, the application for
a permit shall so state and describe the location and extent of the excavation,
cutting or removal. Before the City Clerk shall issue any permit for such work,
the applicant shall pay any fee required by this code. All excavations shall be
barricaded and guarded as provided by the appropriate sections of this code.
Before any such excavation shall be backfilled, new plumbing work therein shall
be inspected and the bottom of the excavation holding any sewer, drain or water
pipe shall be so filled, leveled and tamped as to properly support the pipe and
permit proper drainage when carrying sewage, and the excavation shall be
backfilled and all paving, curbing, guttering or sidewalks shall be restored as
near as possible to their last condition, subject always to the approval of the
Plumbing Inspector or the Superintendent of Streets.
§ 4-429 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
installing plumbing piping or equipment within and upon his or her own
residence and intended for his or her personal use and permanent occupancy;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the Plumbing Inspector as to his or her
ability to install such piping or equipment, secure a permit, pay required
fees, do work in accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and
receive approval. Personal installation by an owner under this section shall be
by himself or herself for himself or herself, on his or her own residence
without compensation, and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in
any way on such work except a plumber or plumbing contractor licensed by the
city.
§ 4-430 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   No plumbing materials, appliances or equipment shall be installed in the
city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this article and with
the approved standards of construction for safety to life and property.
Conformity of materials for plumbing materials, appliances and equipment to the
standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., shall be prima facie evidence
that the materials, devices, appliances and equipment comply with the
requirements of this article.
§ 4-431 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
performing any plumbing construction for damages to persons or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability by reason of the inspection or re-inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval of any work or equipment authorized herein, or by
reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-432 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the Uniform Plumbing Code or of this article shall be held
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the remaining
provisions of the Uniform Plumbing Code or of this article. The section is to
be completely severable from the remaining provisions, which shall continue in
full force and effect.
§ 4-433 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this article is hereby declared to
be an offense, and any party, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any
sum not less than $10 nor more than $100 or be imprisoned not to exceed 30
days, or be both so fined and imprisoned, for each offense. Each day during
which any violation of any provision of this article is committed, continued or
permitted shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 547-10, passed 7-12-2010)
ARTICLE 5: MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
4-501   Building Official; authority
   
4-502   Permit required
   
4-503   Same; application for permit
   
4-504   Same; bond, insurance required
   
4-505   Same; fee
   
4-506   Contractor; license required; fee
   
4-507   Route; duties of Building Official
   
4-508   Notice to owners
   
4-509   Duty of owners
   
4-510   Interfering with poles; wires
   
4-511   Display of lanterns
§ 4-501 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her authorized designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article and
appointment of an inspector.
§ 4-502 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move, haul or transport any house,
building, derrick or other structure of the height when loaded for movement of
16 feet or more from the surface of the highway, road, street or alley, or a
width of eight feet or more or which cannot be moved at a speed of four mph or
faster, upon, across or over any street, alley or sidewalk in this city without
first obtaining a permit therefor.
(K.S.A. 17-1914)
§ 4-503 SAME; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   All applications for permits required under the provisions of this article
shall be made in writing to the City Clerk specifying the day and hour said
moving is to commence and the route through the city’s streets over which the
house, building, derrick or other structure shall be moved and stating whether
it will be necessary to cut and move, raise or in any way interfere with any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment of any public or municipally-owned
utility, and if so, the application shall also state the name of the public or
municipally-owned utility, and the time and location that the applicant’s
moving operations shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or otherwise
interfering with such aerial facilities.
(K.S.A. 17-1915)
§ 4-504 SAME; BOND, INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of any person, at the time of making application
for a permit as provided in this article, to give a good and sufficient surety
bond to the city, to be approved by the governing body, indemnifying the city
against any loss or damage resulting from the failure of any such person to
comply with the provisions of this article or for any damage or injury caused
in moving any such house or structure. The bond herein shall be in the sum of
$5,000, or cash may be deposited in lieu of such surety bond.
   (b)   A public liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state, in the amount of $100,000 per person,
$300,000 per accident as to personal injury, and $50,000 property damage, may
be permitted in lieu of a bond.
§ 4-505 SAME; FEE.
   Before any permit to move any house or structure is given under the
provisions of this article, the applicant shall pay a fee of not less than $5
to the City Clerk, plus the additional cost for the time for any city crews
involved in such moving.
§ 4-506 CONTRACTOR; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   The provisions of §§
4-219 through
4-225 shall apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-507 ROUTE; DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The City Clerk shall, upon filing of the above application, refer the same
to the Chief Building Official or his or her authorized designee to check the
proposed route and determine if it is practical to move such house or other
structure over the route proposed. If it shall appear that such route is not
practical and another route may be used equally well with less danger to street
and travel, then he or she may designate such other route as the one to be used
and shall notify the applicant of the same. The Building Official may also
require the planking of any street, bridge or culvert or any part thereof to
prevent damage thereto. It shall also be the duty of the Chief Building
Official or his or her authorized designee to inspect the progress of moving
any house or other structure to see that the same is being moved in accordance
with the provisions of this article.
§ 4-508 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   (a)   Upon issuance of a moving permit, the applicant shall give not less
than 15 days’ written notice to any person owning or operating any wires,
cables or other aerial equipment along the proposed route of the intent to move
the structure, giving the time and location that the applicants moving
operation shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or interfering of any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment.
   (b)   The notice provision of division (a) above shall not apply where the
person owning or operating any wires, cables or other aerial equipment has
waived their right to advance notice.
   (c)   Should the moving operation be delayed, the applicant shall give the
owner or his or her agent not less than 24 hours’ advance notice of the actual
operation.
(K.S.A. 17-1916)
§ 4-509 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the person or the city owning or operating
such poles or wires, after service of notice as provided herein, to furnish
competent linemen or workers to remove such poles or raise or cut such wires,
cables or other aerial equipment as will be necessary to facilitate the moving
of such house or structure. The necessary expense which is incurred thereby
shall be paid by the holder of the moving permit.
   (b)   The owner of any wires, cables or other aerial equipment, after
service of notice as provided in §
4-508, shall be liable to the permit holder for damages in an amount not to
exceed $100 per day for each day the owner shall fail or refuse to accommodate
the permit holder’s moving operations.
(K.S.A. 17-1917)
§ 4-510 INTERFERING WITH POLES; WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in moving any house or other
structure to raise, cut or in any way interfere with any wires or poles bearing
wires or any other aerial equipment.
(K.S.A. 17-1918)
§ 4-511 DISPLAY OF LANTERNS.
   It shall be the duty of any person moving any of the structures mentioned in
this article upon or across any street, alley or sidewalk or other public place
in this city to display red lanterns thereon in such a manner as to show the
extreme height and width thereof from sunset to sunrise.
ARTICLE 6: DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
Section
   
4-601   Purpose
   
4-602   Definitions
   
4-603   Enforcing officer; duties
   
4-604   Procedure; petition
   
4-605   Same; notice
   
4-606   Same; publication
   
4-607   Same; hearing, order
   
4-608   Duty of owner
   
4-609   Same; failure to comply
   
4-610   Same; make site safe
   
4-611   Assessment of costs
   
4-612   Immediate hazard
   
4-613   Appeals from order
   
4-614   Scope of article
§ 4-601 PURPOSE.
   The governing body has found that there exists within the corporate limits
of the city structures which are unfit for human use or habitation because of
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire or accidents, structural
defects or other conditions which render such structures unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise inimical to the general welfare of the city, or conditions which
provide a general blight upon the neighborhood or surrounding properties. It is
hereby deemed necessary by the governing body to require or cause the repair,
closing or demolition or removal of such structures as provided in this
article.
(K.S.A. 12-1751)
§ 4-602 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCING OFFICER. The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her authorized
representative.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, wall or other structure.
(K.S.A. 12-1750)
§ 4-603 ENFORCING OFFICER; DUTIES.
   The enforcing officer is hereby authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary to carry out the purposes of this article, including the following:
   (a)   Inspect any structure which appears to be unsafe, dangerous or unfit
for human habitation;
   (b)   Have authority to enter upon premises at reasonable hours for the
purpose of making such inspections. Entry shall be made so as to cause the
least possible inconvenience to any person in possession of the structure. If
entry is denied, the enforcing officer may seek an order for this purpose from
a court of competent jurisdiction;
   (c)   Report all structures which he or she believes to be dangerous, unsafe
or unfit for human habitation to the governing body; and
   (d)   Receive petitions as provided in this article.
§ 4-604 PROCEDURE; PETITION.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the enforcing officer by at least five
residents charging that any structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human
habitation, or whenever it appears to the enforcing officer on his or her own
motion that any structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human habitation,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, report such findings to the governing body. Such findings shall
be in writing and describe the property and where it is located.
(K.S.A. 12-1752)
§ 4-605 SAME; NOTICE.
   The governing body, upon receiving a report as provided in §
4-604, shall by resolution fix a time and place at which the owner, the owner’s
agent, any lienholder of records and any occupant of the structure may appear
and show cause why the structure should not be condemned and ordered repaired
or demolished.
(K.S.A. 12-1752)
§ 4-606 SAME; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   The resolution shall be published once each week for two consecutive
weeks on the same day of each week. At least 30 days shall elapse between the
last publication and the date set for the hearing.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be mailed by certified mail within
three days after its first publication to each owner, agent, lienholder and
occupant at the last known place of residence and shall be marked “deliver to
addressee only.”
(K.S.A. 12-1752)
§ 4-607 SAME; HEARING, ORDER.
   (a)   If, after notice and hearing, the governing body determines that the
structure under consideration is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human use or
habitation, it shall state in writing its findings of fact in support of such
determination and shall cause the resolution to be published once in the
official city newspaper and a copy mailed to the owners, agents, lienholders of
record and occupants in the same manner provided for the notice of hearing.
   (b)   The resolution shall fix a reasonable time within which the repair or
removal of such structure shall be commenced and a statement that if the owner
of such structure fails to commence the repair or removal of such structure
within the time stated or fails to diligently prosecute the same until the work
is completed, the governing body will cause the structure to be razed and
removed.
(K.S.A. 12-1753)
§ 4-608 DUTY OF OWNER.
   Whenever any structure within the city shall be found to be dangerous,
unsafe or unfit for human use or habitation, it shall be the duty and
obligation of the owner of the property to render the same secure and safe, or
to remove the same.
§ 4-609 SAME; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (a)   If, within the time specified in the order, the owner fails to comply
with the order to repair, alter, improve or vacate the structure, the enforcing
officer may cause the structure to be repaired, altered, improved or to be
vacated and closed.
   (b)   If, within the time specified in the order, the owner fails to comply
with the order to remove or demolish the structure, the enforcing officer may
cause the structure to be removed and demolished.
(K.S.A. 12-1755)
§ 4-610 SAME; MAKE SITE SAFE.
   Upon removal of any structure, the owner shall fill any basement or other
excavation located upon the premises and take any other action necessary to
leave the premises in a safe condition. If the owner fails to take such action,
the enforcing officer may proceed to make the site safe.
(K.S.A. 12-1754)
§ 4-611 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (a)   The cost to the city of any repairs, alterations, improvements,
vacating, removal or demolition by the enforcing officer, including making the
site safe, shall be reported to the City Clerk.
   (b)   The city shall give notice to the owner of the structure by restricted
mail of the cost of removing the structure and making the premises safe and
secure. The notice shall also state that payment of the cost is due and payable
within 30 days following receipt of the notice.
   (c)   If the costs remain unpaid after 30 days following receipt of notice,
the City Clerk may sell any salvage from the structure and apply the proceeds
or any necessary portion thereof to pay the cost of removing the structure and
making the site safe. Any proceeds in excess of that required to recover the
costs shall be paid to the owner of the premises upon which the structure was
located.
   (d)   If there is no salvageable material or if the proceeds from the sale
of salvage or from the proceeds of any insurance policy in which the city has
created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., and amendments thereto, are
insufficient to recover the above stated costs, the balance shall be collected
in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or shall be
assessed as special assessments against the lot or parcel of land on which the
structure was located, and the City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city
taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs to the County Clerk, and
who shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against such lot or
parcel of land, and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer and paid to
the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may pursue
collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner provided by
K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full cost and
applicable interest has been paid in full.
   (e)   If there is no salvage material, or if the monies received from the
sale of salvage or from the proceeds of any insurance policy in which the city
has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., and amendments thereto,
are insufficient to pay the costs of the work and the costs of providing
notice, such costs or any portion thereof in excess of that received from the
sale of salvage or any insurance proceeds may be financed, until the costs are
paid, out of the General Fund or by the issuance of no-fund warrants.
(K.S.A. 12-1755)
§ 4-612 IMMEDIATE HAZARD.
   When, in the opinion of the governing body, any structure is in such
condition as to constitute an immediate hazard requiring immediate action to
protect the public, the governing body may direct the enforcing officer to
erect barricades or cause the property to be vacated, taken down, repaired,
shored or otherwise made safe without delay. Such action may be taken without
prior notice to or hearing of the owners, agents, lienholders and occupants.
The cost of any action under this section shall be assessed against the
property as provided in §
4-611.
(K.S.A. 12-1756)
§ 4-613 APPEALS FROM ORDER.
   Any person affected by an order issued by the governing body under this
article may, within 30 days following service of the order, petition the
District Court of the county in which the structure is located for an
injunction restraining the enforcing officer from carrying out the provisions
of the order pending final disposition of the case.
§ 4-614 SCOPE OF ARTICLE.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
charter or its ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or punish violations
thereof; and the powers conferred by this article shall be in addition to and
supplemental to the powers conferred by the Constitution, any other law or
ordinance. Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair or limit in any
way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause their
removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise or to exercise those
powers granted specifically by K.S.A. 12-1750 through 12-1756.
ARTICLE 7: RESIDENTIAL CODE
Section
   
4-701   International Residential Code incorporated
   
4-702   Board of Appeals
   
4-703   Deletions and amendments to International Residential Code
   
4-704   Additional interim amendments to International Residential Code
   
4-705   Building permits required
   
4-706   Application for permit
   
4-707   Plot diagram
   
4-708   Fee schedule
   
4-709   Substantiation of valuation; exemption
   
4-710   Contractor defined
   
4-711   Responsibility
   
4-712   License required
   
4-713   Licensing renewal
   
4-714   Class A license
   
4-715   Class B license
   
4-716   Class C license
   
4-717   Class D license
   
4-718   Wrecking contractor’s license
   
4-719   Insurance required
   
4-720   Examination of contractors
   
4-721   License approval and issuance
   
4-722   Revocation of license
   
4-723   Exemptions
§ 4-701 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, for the purpose of providing
minimum regulations for the construction, erection, remodeling, alteration,
repair or expansion of any residential building or structure, the
“International Residential Code” (IRC), 2018 Edition, including all appendices
to each, prepared and published in book form by the International Code Council,
Inc., except such articles, sections, parts or portions as are hereinafter
omitted, deleted, modified or changed. Any errata officially published by the
International Code Council, Inc., shall become part of the IRC when placed on
file by the administrative authority. If any conflict or discrepancy exists
between this article and the referenced IRC, the provisions of this article
shall rule. No fewer than two copies of the IRC shall be marked or stamped
“Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 674-25,” with all sections or
portions thereof intended to be deleted, changed or amended clearly marked to
show such deletion, change or amendment, and to which shall be attached a copy
of this ordinance and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and
available to the public at all reasonable hours. All administrative departments
of the city charged with the enforcement of the ordinance shall be supplied, at
the cost of the city, such number of official copies of such and IRC similarly
marked, deleted and changed as may be expedient.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-702 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Any appeal or request for variance from the International Residential Code
shall be made to the Board of Appeals as set forth and pursuant to the
procedures of the relevant sections of the Zoning Regulations.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-703 DELETIONS AND AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   Deletions and amendments to the International Residential Code are as set
out in Ord. 674-25, incorporated herein by reference as if set out in full.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-704 ADDITIONAL INTERIM AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   The IRC incorporated by §
4-701 is further hereby amended such that any references therein to the
International Electrical Code and the International Plumbing Code are hereby
amended to refer instead, respectively, to the National Electrical Code
incorporated by §
4-302 and to the International Plumbing Code incorporated by §
4-402, respectively. If any such references to the International Electrical
Code or to the International Plumbing Code are to specific sections thereof,
the Building Official shall determine what the appropriate corresponding
reference is to the provisions of the National Electrical Code or the
International Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-705 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   For information regarding required building permits, see Newton City Code §
6-113.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-706 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   For information regarding application for a permit, see Newton City Code §§
6-114 through 6-114a3.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-707 PLOT DIAGRAM.
   For information regarding plot diagrams, see Newton City Code § 6-115.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-708 FEE SCHEDULE.
   For information regarding fee schedules, see Newton City Code §§ 6-116
through 6-116.3.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-709 SUBSTANTIATION OF VALUATION; EXEMPTION.
   For information regarding substantiation of valuation and exemption, see
Newton City Code § 6-117.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-710 CONTRACTOR DEFINED.
   For information regarding the definition of contractor, see Newton City Code
§ 6-118.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-711 RESPONSIBILITY.
   For information regarding responsibility, see Newton City Code § 6-119.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-712 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   For information regarding required licenses, see Newton City Code § 6-120.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-713 LICENSING RENEWAL.
   For information regarding licensing renewal, see Newton City Code § 6-121.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-714 CLASS A LICENSE.
   For information regarding Class A licenses, see Newton City Code § 6-122.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-715 CLASS B LICENSE.
   For information regarding Class B licenses, see Newton City Code § 6-123.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-716 CLASS C LICENSE.
   For information regarding Class C licenses, see Newton City Code § 6-124.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-717 CLASS D LICENSE.
   For information regarding Class D licenses, see Newton City Code § 6-125.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-718 WRECKING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE.
   For information regarding wrecking contractor’s licenses, see Newton City
Code § 6-126.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-719 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   For information regarding required insurance, see Newton City Code § 6-126a.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-720 EXAMINATION OF CONTRACTORS.
   For information regarding the examination of contractors, see Newton City
Code § 6-128.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-721 LICENSE APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE.
   For information regarding license approval and issuance, see Newton City
Code § 6-129.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-722 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   For information regarding revocation of licenses, see Newton City Code § 6-
130.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-723 EXEMPTIONS.
   For information regarding exemptions, see Newton City Code § 6-132.
(Ord. 674-25, passed 11-10-2025)
ARTICLE 8: EXISTING BUILDING CODE
Section
   
4-801   International Existing Building Code incorporated
   
4-802   Board of Appeals
   
4-803   Deletions and amendments to International Existing Building Code
   
4-804   Additional amendments to International Existing Building Code
   
4-805   Building permits required
   
4-806   Application for permit
   
4-807   Same; alternate procedure
   
4-808   Same; Phase I, Site Work
   
4-809   Same; Phase II, Footing, Foundation, Structural Frame and Bearing Walls
   
4-810   Same; Phase III, Completion of Project
   
4-811   Plot diagram
   
4-812   Fee and violation schedule
   
4-813   Same; new construction, additions to existing buildings, building
repairs and alterations
   
4-814   Same; wrecking permits
   
4-815   Same; mechanical equipment
   
4-816   Substantiation of valuation; exemption
   
4-817   Contractor defined
   
4-818   Responsibility
   
4-819   License required
   
4-820   Licensing renewal
   
4-821   Class A license
   
4-822   Class B license
   
4-823   Class C license
   
4-824   Class D license
   
4-825   Wrecking contractor’s license
   
4-826   Insurance required
   
4-827   Examination of contractors
   
4-828   License approval and issuance
   
4-829   Revocation of license
   
4-830   Exemptions
Cross-reference:
   International Building Code, see
Ch. IV, Art. 2
§ 4-801 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, for the purpose of providing
minimum regulations for the construction, erection, remodeling, alteration,
repair or expansion of any building or structure, the “International Existing
Building Code” (IEBC), 2024 Edition, including all appendices, prepared and
published in book form by the International Code Council, Inc., except such
articles, sections, parts or portions as are hereinafter omitted, deleted,
modified or changed. Any errata officially published by the International Code
Council, Inc., shall become part of the IEBC when placed on file with the City
Clerk by city staff. If any conflict or discrepancy exists between this article
and the referenced IEBC, then the provisions of this article shall rule. No
fewer than two copies of the IEBC shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
Adopted by Ordinance No.675-25,” with all sections or portions thereof intended
to be deleted, changed or amended clearly marked to show such deletion, change
or amendment, and to which shall be attached a copy of this ordinance and filed
with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours. All administrative departments of the city charged with the
enforcement of the ordinance shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such
number of official copies of such IEBC similarly marked, deleted and changed as
may be expedient.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-802 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Any appeal or request for variance from the building code shall be made to
the Board of Appeals as set forth and pursuant to the procedures of the
relevant sections of the Zoning Regulations.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-803 DELETIONS AND AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   Deletions and amendments to the International Existing Building Code are as
set out in Ord. 675-25,, incorporated herein by reference as if set out in
full.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-804 ADDITIONAL AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   The IEBC is further hereby amended such that any references therein to the
International Electrical Code and the International Plumbing Code are hereby
amended to refer instead, respectively, to the National Electrical Code
incorporated by §
4-302 and to the International Plumbing Code incorporated by §
4-402, respectively. If any such references to the International Electrical
Code or to the International Plumbing Code are to specific sections thereof,
the Building Official shall determine what the appropriate corresponding
reference is to the provisions of the National Electrical Code or the
International Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-805 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   For information regarding required building permits, see § 6-113 of the
Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-806 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   For information regarding application for a permit, see § 6-114 of the
Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-807 SAME; ALTERNATE PROCEDURE.
   For information regarding alternate procedures, see § 6-114a of the Newton
City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-808 SAME; PHASE I, SITE WORK.
   For information regarding Phase I, see § 6-114a1 of the Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-809 SAME; PHASE II, FOOTING, FOUNDATION, STRUCTURAL FRAME AND BEARING
WALLS.
   For information regarding Phase II, see § 6-114a2 of the Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-810 SAME; PHASE III, COMPLETION OF PROJECT.
   For information regarding Phase III, see § 6-114a3 of the Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-811 PLOT DIAGRAM.
   For information regarding plot diagrams, see § 6-115 of the Newton City
Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-812 FEE AND VIOLATION SCHEDULE.
   For information regarding fee and violation schedules, see § 6-116 of the
Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-813 SAME; NEW CONSTRUCTION, ADDITIONS TO EXISTING BUILDINGS, BUILDING
REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.
   For information regarding new construction, additions, repairs and
alterations, see § 6-116.1 of the Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-814 SAME; WRECKING PERMITS.
   For information regarding wrecking permits, see § 6-116.2 of the Newton City
Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-815 SAME; MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   For information regarding mechanical equipment, see § 6-116.3 of the Newton
City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-816 SUBSTANTIATION OF VALUATION; EXEMPTION.
   For information regarding substantiation of valuation and exemptions, see §
6-117 of the Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-817 CONTRACTOR DEFINED.
   For information regarding the definition of contractor, see § 6-118 of the
Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-818 RESPONSIBILITY.
   For information regarding responsibility, see § 6-119 of the Newton City
Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-819 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   For information regarding required licenses, see § 6-120 of the Newton City
Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-820 LICENSING RENEWAL.
   For information regarding licensing renewal, see § 6-121 of the Newton City
Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-821 CLASS A LICENSE.
   For information regarding Class A licenses, see § 6-122 of the Newton City
Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-822 CLASS B LICENSE.
   For information regarding Class B licenses, see § 6-123 of the Newton City
Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-823 CLASS C LICENSE.
   For information regarding Class C licenses, see § 6-124 of the Newton City
Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-824 CLASS D LICENSE.
   For information regarding Class D licenses, see § 6-125 of the Newton City
Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-825 WRECKING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE.
   For information regarding wrecking contractor’s licenses, see § 6-126 of the
Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-826 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   For information regarding required insurance, see § 6-126a of the Newton
City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-827 EXAMINATION OF CONTRACTORS.
   For information regarding examination of contractors, see § 6-128 of the
Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-828 LICENSE APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE.
   For information regarding license approval and issuance, see § 6-129 of the
Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-829 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   For information regarding revocation of license, see § 6-130 of the Newton
City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-830 EXEMPTIONS.
   For information regarding exemptions, see § 6-132 of the Newton City Code.
(Ord. 675-25, passed 11-10-2025)
ARTICLE 9: MECHANICAL CODE
Section
   
4-901   International Mechanical Code incorporated
   
4-902   Deletions, additions and amendments to International Mechanical Code
   
4-903   Permits, fees
   
4-904   License, fees
   
4-905   Mechanical installers license required
   
4-906   Insurance required
   
4-907   Exception
   
4-908   Person, firm or corporate mechanical equipment installation and
servicing; certificates of competency
   
4-909   Revocation or suspension of certificates and licenses
   
4-910   Same; notice, hearing
   
4-911   Board of Appeals
   
4-912   Violations and penalties
§ 4-901 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, for the purpose of providing
minimum regulations for the installation, erection, alteration, repair
relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of any heating,
ventilating, comfort cooling refrigeration systems, incinerators or other
miscellaneous heat producing appliances, the “International Mechanical Code”
(IMC), 2024 Edition, including all appendices, prepared and published in book
form by the International Code Council, Inc., except such articles, sections,
parts, or portions are hereinafter omitted, deleted, modified or changed. Any
errata officially published by the International Code Council shall become part
of the incorporated Codes when placed on file by the administrative authority.
If any conflict or discrepancy exists between this article and the referenced
codes, the provisions of this article shall rule. Not less than two copies of
said “IMC” shall be marked and stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance
No. 676-25,” with all sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted
clearly marked to show such deletion or change and to which shall be attached a
copy of this ordinance and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection
and available to the public at all reasonable hours. All administrative
departments of the city charged with enforcement of the ordinance shall be
supplied, at the cost of the city, such number of official copies of said codes
similarly marked, deleted and changed as may be expedient.
(Ord. 676-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-902 DELETIONS, ADDITIONS AND AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.
   Deletions, additions and amendments to the International Mechanical Code are
as set out in Ord. 676-25, incorporated herein by reference as if set out in
full.
(Ord. 676-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-903 PERMITS, FEES.
   (a)   Any permit required by IMC shall be issued only to those persons who
hold a current license from the city authorizing them to perform the type and
nature of work described in the permit. Any person desiring a permit required
by this article shall at the time of filing an application therefor pay a fee
in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   For issuance of each permit: $20;
      (2)   For installation or relocation of each forced-air or gravity-type
furnace or burner, including ducts and vents attached to such appliance, up to
and including 100,000 btu: $10;
      (3)   For installation or relocation of each forced-air or gravity-type
furnace or burner, including ducts and vents attached to such appliance over
100,000 btu: $12;
      (4)   For installation or relocation of each floor furnace, including
vent: $10;
      (5)   For installation or relocation of each suspended heater, recessed
wall heater or floor- mounted unit heater: $10;
      (6)   For installation, relocation or replacement of each appliance vent
installed and not included in an appliance permit: $8;
      (7)   For repair of, alteration of or addition to each heating appliance,
refrigeration unit, comfort cooling unit, absorption unit or each comfort
heating, cooling, absorption or evaporative cooling system, including
installation of controls regulated by this code: $10;
      (8)   For installation or relocation of each boiler or compressor to and
including three horsepower or each absorption system to and including 100,000
btu: $10;
      (9)   For installation or relocation of each boiler or compressor over
three horsepower to and including 15 horsepower or each absorption system over
100,000 btu to and including 500,000 btu: $18;
      (10)   For installation or relocation of each boiler or compressor over
15 horsepower to and including 30 horsepower or each absorption system over
500,000 btu to and including 1,000,000 btu: $25;
      (11)   For installation or relocation of each boiler or compressor over
30 horsepower to and including 50 horsepower, or for each absorption system
over 1,000,000 btu to and including 1,750,000 btu: $32;
      (12)   For installation or relocation of each boiler or refrigeration
compressor over 50 horsepower, or each absorption system over 1,750,000 btu:
$38;
      (13)   For each air-handling unit to and including 10,000 cubic feet per
minute, including ducts attached thereto: $10 (Note: This fee shall not apply
to an air-handling unit which is a portion of a factory assembled appliance,
comfort cooling unit, evaporative cooler or absorption unit for which a permit
is required elsewhere in this code);
      (14)   For each air-handling unit over 10,000 cubic feet per minute: $12;
      (15)   For installation of each hood which is served by mechanical
exhaust, including the ducts for such hood: $10;
      (16)   For installation or relocation of each domestic-type incinerator:
$12;
      (17)   For installation or relocation of each commercial- or industrial-
type incinerator: $32; and
      (18)   Any person desiring a permit required by the Uniform Solar Energy
Code shall at the time of filing an application therefor pay a fee in
accordance with the following schedule:
         (A)   In addition to the issuance permit fee;
         (B)   For collectors (including related piping and regulating
devices):
            (i)   Up to 500 square feet: $10; and
            (ii)   More than 500 square feet: $12.
         (C)   For storage tanks (including related piping and regulating
devices):
            (i)   Up to 500 gallons: $10; and
            (ii)   More than 500 gallons: $18.
         (D)   For each appliance or piece of equipment regulated by this code
for which no fee is listed: $8.
   (b)   Any person, firm or corporation who does any work without a permit or
who fails to report permitted work as ready for inspection when completed shall
pay a civil penalty as prescribed in §
4-212. The payment of such penalties shall not relieve any person from fully
complying with the requirements of this code in the execution of the work nor
from any other penalties prescribed herein.
(Ord. 676-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-904 LICENSE, FEES.
   (a)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business or trade
of installing, replacing, relocating or repairing mechanical, heating, cooling,
ventilating or refrigeration equipment without first securing the appropriate
certificate in the manner and for the fee hereinafter set forth in this article
and without first having secured an appropriate license therefor as hereinafter
provided. The following license fee shall be paid for each calendar year, and
such fee or license term shall not be prorated.
      (1)   Mechanical contractors license. A mechanical contractors license
may be issued for the sum of $150 for the first year and a renewal sum of $150
for each successive year to a person, firm or corporation of which at least one
active member of such firm holds a valid mechanical installers certificate. A
separate license shall be issued for each place of business conducted by such
person, firm or corporation.
      (2)   Master mechanical contractors license. A license for a master
mechanical contractor may be issued to any person possessing a valid master
mechanical certificate issued by the city for the sum of $40 annually.
      (3)   Journeyman mechanical contractor license. A license for a
journeyman mechanical contractor may be issued to any person possessing a valid
mechanical journeyman competency certificate issued by the city for the sum of
$20 annually.
   (b)   No licensed person, firm or corporation shall permit the use of his,
her or its name by any other person, firm or corporation, either directly or
indirectly, either for the purpose of obtaining a permit or for the purpose of
doing any mechanical work under his, her or its license.
(Ord. 676-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-905 MECHANICAL INSTALLERS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the trade, business or
otherwise perform the act of installation, repair or reinstallation of
mechanical or solar equipment and apparatus in the city, either as a mechanical
contractor, master mechanical installer or journeyman mechanical installer,
without first having received a license therefor. Each mechanical contractor
shall also have an established place of business as provided by the Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 676-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-906 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Each mechanical contractor shall submit and at all times maintain current
proof of insurance, in the form of a certificate or certificates of insurance,
each with a clause providing for notice to the City Clerk not less than ten
days prior to any cancellation thereof, which such proof of insurance must be
submitted to and approved by the City Clerk as to the following required
insurance coverage, to wit:
   (a)   Workers’ compensation insurance for all employees to be engaged in
work on any site regulated by the Uniform Mechanical Code in the form as now or
hereafter adopted by the city; and
   (b)   Comprehensive general liability insurance in an amount not less than
$500,000 for each occurrence and aggregate, for bodily injury and property
damage combined. Failure to maintain current proof of such insurance shall be
cause for the revocation of such license.
(Ord. 676-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-907 EXCEPTION.
   Any person shall have the right to install mechanical or solar heating,
cooling, ventilating and refrigeration equipment in a single-family residence
owned by him or her and in which he or she lives without procuring a license
and bond as above provided, but shall otherwise be subject to all the
provisions of the Mechanical Code and amendments and supplements thereto.
Apprentice mechanical employees shall be permitted to work when accompanied by
and under the direct supervision of a master or journeyman mechanical
installer.
(Ord. 676-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-908 PERSON, FIRM OR CORPORATE MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION AND
SERVICING; CERTIFICATES OF COMPETENCY.
   (a)   Any person not engaged in the business of mechanical equipment
installations and servicing who has a person holding a certificate of
competency as a mechanical equipment installer and servicer regularly and
continuously in his, her or its employ may apply for mechanical installation
and servicing permits. After paying the regular fees, he, she or it may secure
a permit authorizing the licensed employee to service and install mechanical
equipment in or on such building or premises as are owned, leased or managed as
the direct business of such person. The permit holder shall keep a detailed
record of alterations made under such annual permit. The Building Official
shall have access to such records at all times, or such records shall be filed
with the Building Official as designated. All work performed under such permits
must be installed in compliance with the provisions of this article. Such
permits shall be issued in the name of the person and shall be used in the
regular performance of his or her business where having the work done.
   (b)   Any person wishing to obtain a certificate of competency as provided
by this section must submit evidence of his or her experience and
qualifications demonstrating ability equivalent to a master mechanical
equipment installer and servicer to the administrative authority for approval.
An annual fee of $125, payable on or before January 31 of each year for
renewal, is hereby required for a corporate mechanical equipment installer and
servicer application and certificate, payable upon issuance of the certificate.
Certificate renewal will be approved upon payment of the annual fee provided
that no evidence has been shown to the administrative authority that the
certificate should not be renewed.
(Ord. 676-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-909 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF CERTIFICATES AND LICENSES.
   The administrative authority is hereby authorized to suspend or revoke the
certificate or license of any mechanical contractor, as defined, master
installer or journeyman mechanical installer for the commission of any act in
violation of any provision of this code or any other ordinance of the city, or
for the refusal or failure to comply with any lawful and reasonable order of
the administrative authority, upon the determination of the Building Official.
When a license or certificate of a person or firm has been revoked, a new
certificate or license shall not be granted until he or she has corrected the
violation in accordance with this code or any ordinance of the city, and has
applied for and has passed an exam as required for the original certificate or
license. The decision of the Building Official shall be final.
(Ord. 676-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-910 SAME; NOTICE, HEARING.
   (a)   Upon presentation by the administrative authority to the City Board of
Appeals of charges against any holder of any certificate as set forth in this
section, the Board shall fix the time and place for a meeting to consider such
charges and shall serve upon the holder of the certificate a written notice of
the time and place of the meeting which shall be served upon the holder. The
Board shall make a written record of the hearing, and if, upon a full hearing
of all of the relevant evidence, the Board determines that the certificate
holder is guilty of any of the actions set forth in this section, the Board may
fix a reasonable period of time for correction, or may recommend the revocation
or suspension of the license or certificate of the holder for a definite
period.
   (b)   Where a reasonable period of time for correction has been allowed, the
Board shall, upon expiration of the period, further determine and recommend to
the administrative authority concerning the revocation or suspension of the
license or certificate in question.
(Ord. 676-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-911 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Any appeal or request for variance from the Building Code shall be made to
the Board of Appeals as set forth and pursuant to the procedures of the
relevant sections of the Zoning Regulations.
(Ord. 676-25, passed 11-10-2025)
§ 4-912 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person or corporation violating any of the provisions of this article
and the IMC, and its deletions and amendments adopted by the city, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a
minimum fine of $100 to a maximum fine of $500. Each separate day or portion
thereof during which such violation occurs or continues shall be deemed to
constitute a separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
as herein provided.
(Ord. 676-25, passed 11-10-2025)
ARTICLE 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
4-1001   Numbering of houses and structures
   
4-1002   Length of time building may remain unfinished
§ 4-1001 NUMBERING OF HOUSES AND STRUCTURES.
   (a)   Display of numbers required. The owners of residential and commercial
buildings shall be responsible for displaying the assigned street address
number in a position that is plainly legible and visible from the road fronting
the property. The display of an address number on a mailbox for said
residential or commercial building is sufficient. The addresses of all
structures accessed by way of a service drive shall be posted at the entrance
of the service drive where it departs from the city street on which the
structure is addressed.
   (b)   Violations and penalties. In the event of failure to comply with the
requirements of this section, written notice shall be given to the owner of
said residence or commercial building notifying the owner of the violation. If
said requirement is not corrected or met within one week of said notice, then
this section shall be considered having been violated. Each week thereafter
that said violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. Each
violation shall be punishable by a fine of $20.
(Ord. 528-08, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 4-1002 LENGTH OF TIME BUILDING MAY REMAIN UNFINISHED.
   (a)   Completion time. All new constructions or additions to existing
buildings shall be substantially completed as set forth in the following
schedule:
      (1)   Residential homes: nine months from the time initial earthwork is
commenced;
      (2)   Garages or outbuildings: six months from the time initial earthwork
is commenced;
      (3)   Additions: six months from the time initial earthwork is commenced;
and
      (4)   Commercial buildings: 12 months from the time initial earthwork is
commenced.
   (b)   Definition. SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED shall be defined as completion of
the exterior construction, including primary landscaping such as leveling of a
lot in preparation for seeding or planting.
   (c)   Issuance of building permits. No building permit shall be issued for
new construction or additions to existing buildings by the city unless the
plans and specifications for the building shall provide for substantial
completion and/or occupancy permit within the time schedule as set forth in
division (a) above.
   (d)   Extensions. Upon written application and for good cause shown, the
City Council may issue an extension for completion of said building or addition
for a period of time not to exceed three months.
   (e)   Notice. Any person, corporation, partnership or association found by
an official of the city to be in violation of division (a) above shall be
served with a notice of such violation. Notice shall be served by restricted
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested; provided, if the owner,
occupant, agent or other person in charge or in possession of the real property
is a resident of the county, notice may be personally served by a public
officer or a law enforcement officer.
   (f)   Same; contents. Except as hereinafter provided, the notice shall state
that the building or addition in question is in violation of this section, and
it shall also inform the person, corporation, partnership or association that:
      (1)   (A)   He or she shall have 30 days from the date of serving the
notice to substantially complete the construction or obtain an occupancy permit
(if such is required by the current building code); or
         (B)   He or she shall have ten days from the date of serving the
notice to request a hearing before the governing body of the city.
      (2)   Failure to substantially complete the construction or obtain an
occupancy permit in the time allowed will result in a complaint filed in the
Municipal Court for the city against such person, corporation, partnership or
association and, upon conviction of any violation, be fined $50 in connection
with residential homes, garages, outbuildings or additions and $100 in
connection with commercial buildings. Each day during which a violation occurs
or continues after notice has been served and said 30-day additional time
allowed has lapsed shall constitute an additional or separate offense.
(Ord. 485-04, passed 8-21-2004)
CHAPTER V: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
      
2.   SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
Section
   
5-101   License required
   
5-102   Application for license
   
5-103   Not assignable or transferable
   
5-104   License period; duration
   
5-105   Exemption of farmers
   
5-106   License fees
   
5-107   Same; when payable; time period
   
5-108   Payment of fees; receipt
   
5-109   Contents of license
   
5-110   Record
   
5-111   Display of license
§ 5-101 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, either as
principal or agent or employee, to conduct, pursue, carry on or operate any
calling, trade, profession or occupation in the city without first paying the
license fee prescribed and procuring such a license from the City Clerk
whenever the procuring of the license is required by the city.
§ 5-102 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (a)   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to do business in the city
shall apply to the City Clerk for a license to operate such business, and in
the case of new licenses, shall appear before the governing body before the
commencement of business and issuance of the license.
   (b)   Upon approval by the governing body, the City Clerk shall issue to the
applicant a license that shall be signed by the City Clerk. It shall be the
duty of the City Clerk to pay over the amount so collected on each license
issued to the City Treasurer of the city.
§ 5-103 NOT ASSIGNABLE OR TRANSFERABLE.
   No license granted by the city shall be assignable or transferable; nor
shall such license authorize any person to do business or act under it but the
person named therein, nor at more than one place. There shall be no refunds
except as specifically provided.
§ 5-104 LICENSE PERIOD; DURATION.
   Unless otherwise provided, licenses shall commence and endure from January 1
and expire on December 31 of the same year, except that all semi-annual
licenses issued as provided in this chapter shall expire on the June 30 or
December 31 next following the date of their issuance.
§ 5-105 EXEMPTION OF FARMERS.
   No producer or grower, or his or her agents or employees, selling in the
city farm or garden products or fruits grown by him or her in the state shall
be required to pay any license fee or occupation tax imposed by any law of this
city, and he or she, his or her agents or employees, are hereby exempt from the
payment of any such fees or taxes, or the securing of a license.
(K.S.A. 12-1617)
§ 5-106 LICENSE FEES.
   Unless otherwise provided, the annual license fee for each occupation,
business or profession shall be as shown in the following schedule: [Reserved].
§ 5-107 SAME; WHEN PAYABLE; TIME PERIOD.
   (a)   All license fees shall be due and payable before the commencement of a
trade, occupation, business or profession in which license fees are required.
   (b)   No license shall be issued until the fee is paid.
   (c)   Licenses shall be renewed on or before the expiration date of the
current licenses.
   (d)   If the license prescribed is for an annual, quarterly, monthly, weekly
or daily period, the license shall not be issued for any part or fraction of
the year, quarter, month, week or day, respectively.
   (e)   The license for a day shall expire at midnight.
§ 5-108 PAYMENT OF FEES; RECEIPT.
   The City Clerk shall, upon payment of any license fee specified, give a
receipt therefor stating the amount paid, the nature of the licenses issued,
for what time and to whom issued, and if possible, the exact location where the
business is to be carried on and the kind of business.
§ 5-109 CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise provided, all licenses shall be dated on the date of their
issue, and shall state the name of the licensee, the kind of business he or she
desires to engage in and the location thereof, the amount paid, and time the
license shall expire; and the person having such license shall be authorized to
carry on the business therein named.
§ 5-110 RECORD.
   The City Clerk shall keep a record of the name of each person licensed, his
or her address, the date of the license, the purpose in which it is granted,
the amount paid therefor and the time the same shall expire, and within 24
hours after any license has expired, the City Clerk shall notify the Chief of
Police of such expiration, unless the same shall have been renewed.
§ 5-111 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   All persons doing business in a permanent location are required to have
their license conspicuously displayed in their place of business, and all
persons to whom licenses are issued not having a permanent place of business
are required to carry their licenses with them, and any licensee shall present
the license for inspection when requested to do so by any citizen or officer of
the city.
ARTICLE 2: SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS
Section
   
5-201   Definitions
   
5-202   License required
   
5-203   Same; application required
   
5-204   Issuance; county residents
   
5-205   Same; investigation and issuance; non-county residents
   
5-206   Same; investigation fee
   
5-207   License fee; time limits; exemptions
   
5-208   Renewal
   
5-209   Denial, revocation or suspension of license; notice
   
5-210   Appeal to governing body
   
5-211   Regulations
   
5-212   Use of streets and sidewalks
   
5-213   Disturbing the peace
§ 5-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether a resident of the city or
not, whose business is mainly or principally carried on by traveling either by
foot, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance from place to
place, from house to house or from street to street, taking or attempting to
take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, or personal property of
any nature whatsoever, for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or
performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes
for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he or she is
collecting advance payments on such sales or not. Such definition shall include
any person who, for himself, herself or for another person, hires, leases, uses
or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel room,
lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the city for the sole
purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by
foot, automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance from place to place,
from house to house or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden
truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling
from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon,
automotive vehicle, railroad boxcar or other vehicle or conveyance, and further
provided, that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes
deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this article shall be deemed a PEDDLER.
   RESIDENCE. Includes every separate living unit occupied for residential
purposes by one or more persons contained within any type of building or
structure.
   SOLICITING. Includes any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs or services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character; or
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication.
   STREET SALESPERSON. Any person engaged in any manner in selling merchandise
of any kind from a vehicle or stand temporarily located on the public streets
or sidewalks of this city.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person,
whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city
or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods,
wares and merchandise within such city, and who, in furtherance of such
purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar or boat, public room in hotels, lodging houses,
apartments, shops or any street, alley or other place within the city, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction. Such definition shall not be construed to include any person
who, while occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock, but
exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery
only. The person so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this article merely by reason of associating temporarily with any
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient
business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer.
§ 5-202 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the activities
defined in the preceding sections of this article within the corporate limits
of the city without then having an unrevoked and unexpired license therefor in
his or her possession and issued by the City Clerk.
   (b)   The governing body may waive the license requirements of this section
for any person, firm or corporation exempt from the payment of a license fee
under §
5-207.
§ 5-203 SAME; APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Before the City Clerk may issue any license required by this article, he or
she shall require a sworn application in writing, prepared in duplicate on a
form to be supplied by the City Clerk, that shall give the following
information:
   (a)   Name and description of applicant;
   (b)   Permanent home address and full local address of applicant;
   (c)   Identification of applicant, including driver’s license number, date
of birth, expiration date of license and description of applicant;
   (d)   Identification of vehicle used by applicant, including license
therefor used by applicant in conducting his or her business;
   (e)   A brief description of the nature of the business to be carried on or
the goods to be sold and the
length of time such applicant has been engaged in the business;
   (f)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing such relationship, including the authority by the
employer authorizing the applicant to represent the employer in conducting
business;
   (g)   The length of time that business is proposed to be carried on;
   (h)   The place where services are to be performed or where the goods or
property proposed to be sold or orders taken for the sale thereof are
manufactured or produced, where such goods or products are located at the time
the application is filed and the proposed method of delivery;
   (i)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 90 days prior to the date
of making application, which picture shall be at least two inches by two inches
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing
manner; or in lieu thereof, the fingerprints of the applicant may be taken by
the Chief of Police and filed with the application;
   (j)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has, within two years
prior to the date of the application, been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor
(other than minor traffic violations) or violation of any municipal law
regulating peddlers, solicitors or canvassers and giving the nature of the
offenses, the punishment assessed therefor, if any, and the city and state
where conviction occurred; and
   (k)   The applicant’s state sales tax number.
§ 5-204 ISSUANCE; COUNTY RESIDENTS.
   (a)   Except as provided in §
5-209, if the applicant is a current resident of the county, upon receipt of an
application for a license and payment of the license fee, the City Clerk shall
issue the license. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the
issuing officer and shall show the name and address of the licensee, the date
of issuance and length of time the license shall be operative, and the nature
of the business involved. The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all
such licenses issued and submit a copy of such license to the Chief of Police.
The licensee shall carry the license certificate at all times.
   (b)   If the applicant is not a current resident of the county, a license
will not be issued until after investigation and payment of the investigation
fee as provided in §§
5-205 and
5-206.
§ 5-205 SAME; INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE; NON-COUNTY RESIDENTS.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the above application from an applicant who is not a
current resident of the county, the City Clerk shall refer the same to the
Chief of Police, who shall cause an investigation of the facts stated therein
to be made within not to exceed five days.
   (b)   If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory or the facts stated
therein to be untrue, the Chief of Police shall endorse on such application his
or her findings and endorse his or her disapproval of the application and the
reasons for the same and shall return the application to the City Clerk, who
then shall notify the applicant that his or her application is disapproved and
that no license will be issued.
   (c)   If, however, the investigation of such application discloses that the
character and business responsibility and the facts stated in the application
are satisfactory and true, the Chief of Police shall endorse his or her
findings and approval on the application and return the same to the City Clerk,
who shall, upon payment of the license and investigation fees prescribed, issue
a license to the applicant to engage in the business described in the
application. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing
officer and shall show the name and address of the licensee, the date of
issuance and length of time the license shall be operative, and the nature of
the business involved. The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all such
licenses issued and submit a copy of such license to the Chief of Police. The
licensee shall carry the license certificate at all times.
§ 5-206 SAME; INVESTIGATION FEE.
   At the time of filing the application, a fee of $10 shall be paid to the
City Clerk to cover the cost of investigation of the facts stated in the
foregoing application.
§ 5-207 LICENSE FEE; TIME LIMITS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   The fee for the license required pursuant to §
5-202 shall be in the amount of $10 per each day, or portion thereof, that the
licensee shall operate within the city limits. In no event, however, shall fees
in excess of $100 be collected from a licensee during any six-month period of
time.
   (b)   Any such license granted upon application as required hereinabove
shall be limited to and effective only on the days set out in the license.
Solicitation or sales by any peddler, solicitor or canvasser shall be conducted
only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (c)   No license fee shall be required of:
      (1)   Any person selling products of the farm or orchard actually
produced by the seller;
      (2)   Any businesses, trades or occupations that are part of fairs or
celebrations sponsored by the city or any other governmental subdivision, or
the state, or when part or all of the expenses of the fairs or celebrations are
paid for by the city, any other governmental subdivision or the state; and
      (3)   Any not-for-profit or charitable organization, as determined by the
governing body.
(K.S.A. 12-1617)
§ 5-208 RENEWAL.
   All licenses issued shall be subject to renewal upon a showing of compliance
with §§
5-202 and
5-203 within a six-month period prior to the renewal date. The City Clerk need
not require an additional application under §
5-203 or an additional investigation and investigation fee under §§
5-205 and
5-206 unless complaints have been received of violations of the conditions in
which any license has heretofore been issued. The City Clerk shall not renew or
extend any license if there is satisfactory evidence of any grounds for the
suspension or revocation of any prior license, and the applicant shall be
required to apply for a license as in the case of an original license.
§ 5-209 DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; NOTICE.
   The City Clerk or Chief of Police may deny any application, or may revoke or
suspend for a period of not to exceed 30 days any license issued under this
article, for any of the following causes:
   (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   (b)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business;
   (c)   Any violation of this article;
   (d)   Conducting a business, as defined in §
5-201, in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of
the city. Notice of the denial, revocation or suspension of a license shall be
given in writing to the applicant or mailed to his or her last known address,
and the City Clerk shall set forth the grounds of such denial, revocation or
suspension; and
   (e)   Conviction of the crime of theft, larceny, fraud, embezzlement or any
felony within two years before the application date.
§ 5-210 APPEAL TO GOVERNING BODY.
   (a)   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or City
Clerk in the denial of an application or revocation or suspension of a license
as provided in this article shall have the right of appeal to the governing
body.
   (b)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Clerk within 14
days after notice of revocation, suspension or denial of the license has been
given to or mailed to such applicant’s last known address and setting forth the
grounds for appeal.
   (c)   The governing body shall set a time and place for a hearing on such
appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant in the same
manner as provided herein for notice of denial, revocation or suspension.
   (d)   The decision and order of the governing body on such appeal shall be
final and conclusive.
§ 5-211 REGULATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to make false or fraudulent
statements concerning the quality of nature of his or her goods, wares and
merchandise for the purpose of inducing another to purchase the same.
   (b)   Licensees are required to exhibit their license at the request of any
person to whom they attempt to sell their goods, wares and merchandise or take
orders for future delivery of the same.
§ 5-212 USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Except when authorized in writing by the City Clerk, no peddler, solicitor
or canvasser or any other person shall have exclusive right to any location in
the public streets for the purpose of selling or soliciting sales, nor shall
any person be permitted a stationary location in the public streets, nor shall
any person be permitted to operate in the sidewalks and streets within the fire
limits of the city or any congested area where his or her operations might
impede or inconvenience the public.
§ 5-213 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   Except when authorized in writing by the City Clerk, no licensee, nor any
person in his or her behalf, shall use any sound device, including any loud-
speaking radio or sound-amplifying system, upon any of the streets, alleys,
parks or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the
city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be
capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or
other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods,
wares or merchandise that such licensee proposes to sell.
CHAPTER VI: ELECTIONS
   Article
      
1.   CITY ELECTIONS
ARTICLE 1: CITY ELECTIONS
Section
   
6-101   Candidate requirements
   
6-102   General elections
   
6-103   Conduct of election
   
6-104   Hours of voting
   
6-105   Commencement of terms of office; oath of office
§ 6-101 CANDIDATE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   The governing body shall consist of a Mayor and five Council members,
to be elected to terms as set forth herein. The Mayor and Council members shall
be residents and qualified electors of the city.
   (b)   In accordance with K.S.A. 25-205, and amendments thereto, any person
may become a candidate for city office, elected at large, by having had filed
on his or her behalf a nomination petition or a declaration of candidacy,
accompanied by any fee required by law. The nomination petition must be signed
by 2% of the qualified electors of the city.
(C.O. No. 14-16, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 6-102 GENERAL ELECTIONS.
   (a)   General elections shall take place every two years during the November
general election held in odd-numbered years. A Mayor and two Council members
shall be elected at one election, and the remaining three Council members shall
be elected at the succeeding election. The Mayor and all Council members shall
have four-year terms.
   (b)   All elections for the city shall be nonpartisan.
(C.O. No. 14-16, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 6-103 CONDUCT OF ELECTION.
   The election of city officials shall be conducted in all respects as
provided by the laws of the state governing the holding of city elections.
(K.S.A. 25-2101 et seq.)
§ 6-104 HOURS OF VOTING.
   At all city elections, the polls shall be open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 7:
00 p.m., unless different hours are set and publicly announced by the County
Election Officer.
(K.S.A. 25-106, 25-2111)
§ 6-105 COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF OFFICE; OATH OF OFFICE.
   (a)   The term of office shall commence on a date established by resolution
of the city on or after December 1 following the certification of the election
and no later than the second Monday in January following certification of the
election by the County Election Officer. If a date is not established by
resolution, the term shall begin on the second Monday in January.
   (b)   Every person elected or appointed to city office, before entering upon
the duties of such office, shall take and subscribe an oath or affirmation as
specified in K.S.A. 54-106, and amendments thereto, and every such oath or
affirmation shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(K.S.A. 25-2120)
CHAPTER VII: FIRE
   Article
      
1.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
3.   FIREWORKS
ARTICLE 1: FIRE DEPARTMENT
[Reserved]
ARTICLE 2: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
7-201   International Fire Code incorporated
   
7-202   Deletions, amendments and additions to International Fire Code
   
7-203   Community Risk Reduction Division established; duties
   
7-204   Violations; enforcement; penalties
   
7-205   Open burning
   
7-206   Accumulation of rubbish and trash
   
7-207   Stacking of hay or straw
   
7-208   Keeping of packing materials
   
7-209   Storage of ashes
   
7-210   Filling gasoline tanks of motor vehicles
   
7-211   Fire hazards generally
   
7-212   Same; inspections to discover
   
7-213   Abatement of fire hazards; issuing order
   
7-214   Same; service of order; records
§ 7-201 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, for the purpose of prescribing
rules and regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from
fire, hazardous materials or explosion, and for the purpose of providing
minimum regulations for the construction, erection, remodeling, alteration,
repair or expansion of any building or structure, the “International Fire
Code,” 2024 Edition, including Appendices B, C, D, E, G, I, K, L, M, N and O,
prepared and published in book form by the International Code Council, Inc.,
except such articles, sections, parts or portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified or added. Any errata officially published by the International Code
Council, Inc., shall become part of the International Fire Code when placed on
file by the administrative authority. If any conflict or discrepancy exists
between this article and the referenced International Fire Code, the provisions
of this article shall rule. No fewer than three copies of the International
Fire Code shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance
668-25,” with all sections or portions thereof intended to be deleted, changed
or amended clearly marked to show such deletion, change or amendment, and to
which shall be attached a copy of this ordinance and filed with the City Clerk
to be open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours.
All administrative departments of the city charged with the enforcement of the
ordinance shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such number of official
copies of such International Fire Code similarly marked, deleted and changed as
may be expedient.
(Ord. 668-25, passed 6-2-2025)
§ 7-202 DELETIONS, AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   Deletions, amendments and additions to the International Fire Code are as
set out in Ord. 668-25, incorporated herein by reference as if set out in full.
(Ord. 668-25, passed 6-2-2025)
§ 7-203 COMMUNITY RISK REDUCTION DIVISION ESTABLISHED; DUTIES.
   (a)   The International Fire Code as adopted and amended herein shall be
enforced by the Community Risk Reduction Division in the Newton Fire/EMS
Department, which is hereby established and which shall be operated under the
supervision of the Chief of the Fire/EMS Department or by such officers as may
be delegated by the Chief. The Chief shall designate a Fire Marshal and such
other members of the Fire/EMS Department as inspectors and as “fire code
officials” under the International Fire Code as the Chief may deem necessary
from time to time, which may include the authority and power to sign, issue and
execute complaints regarding violations of this chapter or this article. The
Chief shall also possess all such powers and authority.
   (b)   With the advice and recommendations of the Fire Chief, the governing
body of the city may from time to time by resolution establish and authorize a
program for the periodic inspection of one or more classifications of
structures or facilities within the city for the enforcement of the laws and
ordinances governing the same, and for the safeguarding of life and property
from hazards and dangers under the jurisdiction of the Fire/EMS Department.
   (c)   (1)   The Fire Chief, and any and all inspectors and code officials
designated by the Fire Chief under the authority conferred herein, shall have
the right of access to any and all properties, structures and facilities in the
city for the purpose of carrying out the adopted and authorized periodic
inspection program as established by the governing body. It shall be unlawful
for any owner, manager or occupant of any such property to fail or refuse to
provide such access upon reasonable advance notice and request for such access
having been given.
      (2)   Furthermore, the Fire Chief, and any designated inspector or code
official, may make application to the District Court for an administrative
search warrant to compel such access, and may make forcible entry upon or into
any such property, structure or facility for the purpose of carrying out such
inspection as such warrant may authorize.
(Ord. 668-25, passed 6-2-2025)
§ 7-204 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES.
   (a)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the this article or
of the International Fire Code as adopted and amended herein, or who fails to
comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply with any order made
thereunder, or who builds in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder or any certificate or
permit issued thereunder and from which no appeal has been taken, or who fails
to comply with such order as affirmed or modified by the Board of Appeals or by
a court of competent jurisdiction within the required time, shall severally for
each and every such violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine fixed by the court at a sum not less than
$250 and not to exceed $2,500 or by imprisonment of not more than one year, or
by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues after
due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense. The imposition
of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense. The application of the above penalty shall not
be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
   (b)   (1)   Whenever the Chief of the Fire/EMS Department or any code
enforcement officer delegated with such authority has probable cause to believe
that a person, firm or corporation is committing or has committed a violation
of any provision of this article or of the International Fire Code, the Chief
or such enforcement officer may first cause a notice of violation(s) and order
(s) to comply to be served upon such person, firm or corporation responsible
therefor.
      (2)   Such notice:
         (A)   Shall be in writing;
         (B)   Shall include a description of the real estate and/or the street
address where the violation allegedly occurred or is occurring sufficient for
identification;
         (C)   Shall specify the violation(s) which exist and the correction(s)
ordered; and
         (D)   Shall prescribe a reasonable time for the performance of any act
it requires.
      (3)   Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon such alleged
violator if a copy thereof is delivered to such alleged violator personally, or
if a copy is left at such alleged violator’s place of abode or business with a
person of suitable age and discretion who shall be informed of the contents
thereof. Such notice shall also be deemed to be properly served if a copy
thereof is sent by mail to such alleged violator’s last known address, or, if
the copy is returned showing it has not been delivered, a copy thereof is
posted in a conspicuous place in, on or about the building or structure
affected by the notice.
   (c)   (1)   In case any notice of violation(s) and order(s) to comply
authorized herein is not complied with, the Chief or such enforcement officer
may request the City Attorney to institute an appropriate action or proceeding
against such person, firm or corporation responsible for the violation(s):
         (A)   To restrain, correct or remove the violation or to compel such
person, firm or corporation to refrain from any further execution of work;
         (B)   To restrain or correct the erection, construction, installation,
alteration, enlargement, addition, repair, relocation, replacement,
improvement, removal, conversion, demolition, equipping, maintenance,
occupation or use of a building, structure or portion thereof;
         (C)   To require the removal of work in violation; or
         (D)   To prevent the maintenance, occupation or use of the building,
structure or portion thereof erected, constructed, installed, altered,
enlarged, added to, repaired, relocated, replaced, improved, removed,
converted, demolished, equipped, maintained, occupied or used in violation of
this article or the International Fire Code, or in violation of a plan or
specification under which an approval, permit or certificate was issued.
      (2)   In addition, or in the alternative, the Chief or such enforcement
officer may proceed for the enforcement of penalties hereunder.
   (d)   For the purposes of the penalty provisions under this article or the
International Fire Code, every violation shall be deemed to be a Class G
violation except for the following, which shall be classified as follows: see
Appx. A, Classification of Violations, attached to the ordinance codified in
this section.
(Ord. 668-25, passed 6-2-2025)
§ 7-205 OPEN BURNING.
[Reserved]
§ 7-206 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH AND TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to accumulate or to keep in any
part of any building, or outside of and adjacent to any building, or in any
alley, sidewalk, street or premises within 30 feet of any building, any
rubbish, trash, waste paper, excelsior, empty boxes, barrels or other
combustibles that shall constitute a fire hazard.
§ 7-207 STACKING OF HAY OR STRAW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, stack or store any hay or
straw within 500 feet of any building located inside the fire limits of the
city.
§ 7-208 KEEPING OF PACKING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep excelsior or other packing material in any
other than metal or wood metal-lined boxes or bins having self-closing or
automatic covers. All refuse and trash from rooms where packing or unpacking is
done shall be removed daily.
§ 7-209 STORAGE OF ASHES.
   It shall be unlawful to store ashes inside of any non-fire-proof building
unless they are stored in a noncombustible container or receptacle, and a
clearance of at least five feet shall be maintained between such container or
receptacle and any combustible materials not placed therein. Ashes shall not be
stored outside of any building in wooden, plastic or paper product receptacles
or dumped in contact with or in close proximity to any combustible materials.
§ 7-210 FILLING GASOLINE TANKS OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The engines of motor vehicles shall be stopped when the gasoline tanks of
such vehicles are being filled with gasoline at service stations or other
places where gasoline is supplied to motor vehicles. The driver or person in
control of such vehicle when the gasoline tank of same is being filled who
refuses, neglects or fails to stop the engine of such vehicle shall likewise be
guilty of a violation of this code.
§ 7-211 FIRE HAZARDS GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause or create anywhere within the city,
or to permit on any premises under his or her control, any situation or
condition that is conducive to or likely to cause or permit the outbreak of
fire or the spreading of fire. Any situation or condition conducive to the
outbreak of or spreading of fire is declared to be a fire hazard. The violation
of or failure to comply with any law pertaining to the storage, handling or use
of inflammable oils, explosives, liquefied petroleum gases or fertilizers, and
all wires and other conductors charged with electricity, is declared to be a
fire hazard. The placing of stools, chairs or any other obstruction in the
aisles, hallways, doorways or exits of any theater, public hall, auditorium,
church or other place of indoor public assemblage, or the failure to provide
any such place of public assemblage with sufficient, accessible and
unobstructed fire exits and escapes, is also declared to be a fire hazard. The
obstruction of any street, avenue, alley, fire hydrant or any other condition
that might delay the Fire Department in fighting fire is declared to be
unlawful.
§ 7-212 SAME; INSPECTIONS TO DISCOVER.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to inspect or cause to be inspected
by Fire Department officers or members, as often as may be necessary, all
buildings, particularly all mercantile buildings, manufacturing plants,
warehouses, garages, hotels, boarding houses, rooming houses, theaters,
auditoriums and all places of public assemblage, for the purpose of discovering
the violation of any fire preventive law or any fire hazard and ascertaining
and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fires and to see
that all places of public assemblage, hotels and rooming houses have sufficient
and unobstructed facilities for escape therefrom in case of fire.
§ 7-213 ABATEMENT OF FIRE HAZARDS; ISSUING ORDER.
   Whenever any officer or member of the Fire Department shall find or discover
any fire hazard or shall find in any building or upon any premises combustible
or explosive material or dangerous accumulation of rubbish or unnecessary
accumulation of paper, boxes, shavings or any other inflammable material so
situated as to endanger property by the probability of fire, or shall find or
discover any violation of this chapter or any other law hazardous to public
safety from fires, the Fire Chief shall order the fire hazard or danger from
the fire forthwith abated and remedied, and such order shall be complied with
immediately by the owner or occupant of such buildings or premises. If the
hazard or condition ordered abated and remedied is a violation of, or a failure
to comply with, any law, the Fire Chief shall report the matter to the City
Attorney, and he or she shall, if he or she deems it advisable, prosecute the
offender.
§ 7-214 SAME; SERVICE OF ORDER; RECORDS.
   Any order made under §
7-213 shall be in writing and may be served personally upon the owner or
occupant of the premises or by leaving it with any person in charge of the
premises, or if the premises are unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident of
the city, then by mailing a copy to the owner’s last known post office address.
One notice to either the occupant or owner shall be sufficient. The Fire Chief
shall keep a record of and copies of all such orders and notices and shall
follow up such notices at the expiration of the time for compliance therewith,
and when complied, with make proper entry, and if not complied with, file
complaint with the Municipal Court against the property owner and/or occupant.
ARTICLE 3: FIREWORKS
Section
   
7-301   Fireworks defined
   
7-302   Fireworks prohibited; exceptions
   
7-303   Limited use exception; conditions
   
7-304   Hours, days when certain discharges permitted
   
7-305   Public display exception; permit requirements, conditions
   
7-306   Authority of Police Chief
   
7-307   Penalty
§ 7-301 FIREWORKS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. The items defined under the rules and regulations of the Kansas
State Fire Marshal as “Class C fireworks” and as “common fireworks.”
(Ord. 444, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 7-302 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Except as otherwise specifically permitted under §§
7-303 and
7-304, it shall be unlawful for any person to possess, sell, display for sale,
fire, discharge or explode any fireworks within the city limits.
   (b)   Nothing in this article shall be construed as applying to:
      (1)   Toy smoke devices defined as smoke balls, or tubes containing a
pyrotechnic mixture which upon ignition produces a visible cloud of smoke;
      (2)   Toy, paper or plastic caps containing not more than 0.25 of a grain
of explosive composition per cap; or toy or cap pistols or any like device
designed to discharge such paper or plastic caps; or sparklers;
      (3)   The manufacture, storage, sale or authorized use of signals
necessary for the safe operation of railroads or other classes of public or
private transportation;
      (4)   The military forces of the United States or of this state while in
the performance of official duty;
      (5)   Law enforcement officers while in the performance of official duty;
      (6)   The sale or use of blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or
athletic events;
      (7)   The firing of sky rockets or missiles when produced by a science
class of any school, and when under the supervision of a science instructor,
and when the place and time of such firing has been approved by the Chief of
Police or City Administrator; or
      (8)   The possession of fireworks in sealed packaging or containers
whereby individual items of fireworks are not immediately useable; provided,
however, that this exception shall not apply as to any location where other
fireworks are being possessed or discharged in violation of this article.
(Ord. 444, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 7-303 LIMITED USE EXCEPTION; CONDITIONS.
   (a)   Subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, the possession and
discharge of fireworks which are included as “Class C fireworks” and as “common
fireworks” under the rules and regulations of the State Fire Marshal shall be
permitted on such days and during such hours on such days as the governing body
of the city shall designate from time to time by duly adopted ordinances having
reference to the provisions of this article.
   (b)   Unless otherwise provided under the terms of an ordinance adopted in
reference to division (a) above to establish days and hours for the permitted
discharge of fireworks, the discharge of any such permitted fireworks shall be
done only on private property with the permission of the owner or lawful
occupant thereof; provided, however, that in no event may any fireworks be
discharged in any of the following locations:
      (1)   Public streets or any public park land;
      (2)   Within 50 feet of any facility where fireworks are stored;
      (3)   Within 50 feet of any gasoline pump, gasoline filling station,
gasoline bulk station or any building in which gasoline or volatile liquids are
sold in quantities in excess of one gallon; or
      (4)   In, into, under or on any motor vehicle, nor may any fireworks be
thrown from any motor vehicle.
(Ord. 444, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 7-304 HOURS, DAYS WHEN CERTAIN DISCHARGES PERMITTED.
   Subject to the conditions set forth in this article and pursuant to the
provisions of §
7-303(a), the possession and discharge of fireworks which are included as
“Class C fireworks” and as “common fireworks” under the rules and regulations
of the State Fire Marshal shall be permitted between the hours of 10:00 a.m.
until 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on July 4 on an annual basis.
(Ord. 444, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 7-305 PUBLIC DISPLAY EXCEPTION; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS, CONDITIONS.
   (a)   The City Administrator, or his or her authorized agent, is authorized
to issue permits for the public display of fireworks by responsible individuals
or organizations when such display or displays shall be of such a character and
so located and conducted so as not to be a fire hazard or endanger persons or
surrounding property.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to give any
public display of fireworks without having first obtained a permit thereof
issued under the authority of this article.
   (c)   No permit shall be approved unless the applicant furnishes a proof
that the applicant holds a policy or policies of public liability insurance
coverage for the display in the following minimum amounts: $500,000 for
injuries or damages to any one person in any one accident or occurrence;
$1,000,000 for injuries to two or more persons in any one accident or
occurrence; and $1,000,000 combined single-limit coverage for any one accident
or occurrence. Such policy or polices must be issued by an insurance company or
companies authorized to do business in the state.
   (d)   The application for the permit shall clearly state:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The group or organization for which the display is planned;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person designated as
the agent of the group or organization as to all matters pertaining to the
permit;
      (4)   The date, time and location of the display;
      (5)   The nature or kind of fireworks to be used;
      (6)   The name of the person, firm or corporation that will make the
actual discharge of the fireworks; and
      (7)   Any anticipated need for police, fire or other municipal services.
   (e)   No permit shall be issued if the location, nature of the fireworks or
other relevant factor is such as to create an undue hazard or risk of harm or
damage to persons or property.
   (f)   The City Administrator, or his or her authorized agent, shall have the
authority to revoke the permit or to prohibit all or any portion of any such
public display if, in his or her opinion and under the circumstances then
existing, an undue hazard or risk of harm or damage to persons or property
exists or is being created.
(Ord. 444, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 7-306 AUTHORITY OF POLICE CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Police Department and his or her authorized agents may
seize and confiscate all fireworks which may be possessed or used in violation
of any section of this article or in violation of any of the rules of the State
Fire Marshal. All such confiscated fireworks shall be disposed of in any manner
as approved by the State Fire Marshal. The Chief of the Police Department shall
also have authority to revoke any permits issued for the public display of
fireworks by virtue of any violations of the provisions of this article. The
actions authorized herein shall be in addition to any applicable penalties
under §
7-307.
(Ord. 444, passed 11-8-1999)
§ 7-307 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall be convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
article shall be punished as and for a Class C violation.
(Ord. 444, passed 11-8-1999)
CHAPTER VIII: HEALTH AND WELFARE
   Article
      
1.   BOARD OF HEALTH
      
2.   HEALTH NUISANCES
      
2A.   ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
      
3.   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
      
4.   WEEDS
      
5.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
6.   RODENT CONTROL
      
7.   INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
      
8.   SMOKING
      
9.   NUCLEAR-FREE ZONE
ARTICLE 1: BOARD OF HEALTH
[Reserved]
ARTICLE 2: HEALTH NUISANCES
Section
   
8-201   Nuisances unlawful; defined
   
8-202   Public officer
   
8-203   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-204   Right of entry
   
8-205   Order of violation
   
8-206   Same; contents
   
8-207   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-208   Abatement
   
8-209   Hearing
   
8-210   Costs assessed
§ 8-201 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any nuisance
within the city as defined, without limitation, as follows:
   (a)   Filth, excrement, lumber, rocks, dirt, cans, paper, trash, metal or
any other offensive or disagreeable thing or substance thrown or left or
deposited upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park, public or private
enclosure or lot, whether vacant or occupied;
   (b)   All dead animals not removed within 24 hours after death;
   (c)   Any place or structure or substance that emits or causes any
offensive, disagreeable or nauseous odors;
   (d)   All stagnant ponds or pools of water;
   (e)   All grass or weeds or other unsightly vegetation not usually
cultivated or grown for domestic use or to be marketed or for ornamental
purposes;
   (f)   Abandoned iceboxes or refrigerators kept on the premises under the
control of any person, or deposited on the sanitary landfill, or any icebox or
refrigerator not in actual use unless the door, opening or lid thereof is
unhinged or unfastened and removed therefrom;
   (g)   All articles or things whatsoever caused, kept, maintained or
permitted by any person to the injury, annoyance or inconvenience of the public
or of any neighborhood; and
   (h)   Any fence, structure, thing or substance placed upon or being upon any
street, sidewalk, alley or public ground so as to obstruct the same, except as
permitted by the laws of the city.
(K.S.A. 21-6204)
§ 8-202 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The City Administrator shall designate a public officer to be charged with
the administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-203 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located, or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Board of Health, Chief of Police or
the Fire Chief. The public officer may make such inquiry and inspection when he
or she observes conditions that appear to constitute a nuisance. Upon making
any inquiry and inspection, the public officer shall make a written report of
findings.
§ 8-204 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer has the right of access and entry upon private property
at any reasonable time to the extent allowed by law for the purpose of making
inquiry and inspection to determine if a nuisance exists.
§ 8-205 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-201 an order stating the violation. The order shall be served on the owner or
agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24- month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-206 SAME; CONTENTS.
   (a)   The order shall state the condition(s) that is (are) in violation of §
8-201. The order shall also inform the person, corporation, partnership or
association that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from the receipt of the order
to abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-201; provided, however, that the governing body shall grant one or more
extensions of the ten-day period if the owner or agent of the property
demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in the abatement of the
conditions in violation of §
8-201; or
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from the receipt of the order, plus
any additional time granted under division (a)(1) above, to request a hearing
before the governing body or its designated representative of the matter as
provided by §
8-209.
   (b)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-207 and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as provided by §
8-208.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-207 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person, corporation, partnership or association fail to comply
with the order to abate the nuisance or request a hearing, the public officer
may file a complaint in the Municipal Court of the city against such person,
corporation, partnership or association and, upon conviction of any violation
of provisions of §
8-201, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100 or be imprisoned not to exceed
30 days, or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues after notice has been served shall constitute an
additional or separate offense.
§ 8-208 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-207, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been served pursuant to §
8-205 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time periods specified
in §
8-206, the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-210.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (c)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24- month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-209 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-206, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall be held
by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
manner provided in §
8-208.
§ 8-210 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-208, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section. The
notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located; and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs; and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land; and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
ARTICLE 2A: ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
Section
   
8-2A01   Title
   
8-2A02   Legislative finding of fact
   
8-2A03   Purpose
   
8-2A04   Rules of construction
   
8-2A05   Definitions
   
8-2A06   Public officer
   
8-2A07   Enforcement standards
   
8-2A08   Unlawful acts
   
8-2A09   Order of violation
   
8-2A10   Penalty
   
8-2A11   Abatement
   
8-2A12   Hearing
   
8-2A13   Appeals
   
8-2A14   Costs assessed
   
8-2A15   Construction
§ 8-2A01 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Environmental Code.”
§ 8-2A02 LEGISLATIVE FINDING OF FACT.
   The governing body has found that there exist within the city unsightly and
hazardous conditions due to: dilapidation, deterioration or disrepair of walls,
siding, fences or structure exteriors; accumulations increasing the hazards of
accidents or other calamities; structural defects; uncleanliness; and unsightly
stored or parked material, equipment, supplies, machinery, vehicles or parts
thereof. Such conditions are inimical to the general welfare of the community
in that they have a blighting influence on the adjoining properties, the
neighborhood and the city, or are injurious to the health and safety of the
residents of the city. The governing body desires to promote the public health,
safety and welfare by the repair, removal, abatement and regulation of such
conditions in the manner hereafter provided.
§ 8-2A03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to protect, preserve, upgrade and regulate
the environmental quality of industrial, commercial and residential
neighborhoods in this city by outlawing conditions which are injurious to the
health, safety, welfare or aesthetic characteristics of the neighborhoods and
to provide for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-2A04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following rules of construction shall
apply.
   (a)   Any part thereof. Whenever the words premises, structure, building or
yard are used, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the
words “or any part thereof.”
   (b)   Gender. Words of gender shall be construed to mean neuter, feminine or
masculine, as may be applicable.
   (c)   Number. Words of number shall be construed to mean singular or plural,
as may be applicable.
   (d)   Tense. Words of tense shall be construed to mean present or future, as
may be applicable.
   (e)   Shall. The word shall is mandatory and not permissive.
§ 8-2A05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is not currently registered
or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149, inclusive, as amended; or parked
in violation of the ordinance; or incapable of moving under its own power; or
in a junked or wrecked condition.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A secondary structure detached from the principal
structure but on the same premises, including, but not limited to, garages,
sheds, barns or outbuildings.
   COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for other
than residential purposes.
   DILAPIDATION, DETERIORATION or DISREPAIR. Any condition characterized by,
but not limited to, holes, breaks, rot, decay, crumbling, cracking, peeling or
flaking paint, rusting or other evidence of physical damage, neglect, lack of
maintenance, excessive use or weathering.
   EXTERIOR. The parts of a structure which are exposed to the weather or
subject to contact with the elements; including, but not limited to, sidings,
facings, veneers, masonry, roofs, foundations, porches, screens, shutters,
windows, doors or signs.
   GARBAGE. Without limitation, any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable
waste matter that results from the handling, preparation, cooking, serving,
delivering, storage or use of foodstuffs.
   PERSON. Any individual, individuals, corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association, other business organization, committee, board,
trustee, receiver, agent or other representative who has charge, care, control
or responsibility for maintenance of any premises, regardless of status as
owner, renter, tenant or lessee, whether or not in possession.
   PREMISES. Any lot, plot or parcel of land, including the structures thereon.
Premises shall also mean any lot, plot or parcel of land without any structures
thereon.
   REFUSE. Garbage and trash.
   RESIDENTIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for human habitation.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground, including
any appurtenances belonging thereto.
   TRASH. Combustible waste consisting of, but not limited to, papers, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, furniture, bedding, rags, leaves, yard
trimmings or tree branches and non-combustible waste consisting of, but not
limited to, metal, tin, cans, glass, crockery, plastics, mineral matter, ashes,
clinkers or street rubbish and sweepings.
   WEATHERED. Deterioration caused by exposure to the elements.
   YARD. The area of the premises not occupied by any structure.
§ 8-2A06 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The City Administrator shall designate a Public Officer to be charged with
the administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-2A07 ENFORCEMENT STANDARDS.
   No person shall be found in violation of this article unless the public
officer, after a reasonable inquiry and inspection of the premises, believes
that conditions exist of a quality and appearance not commensurate with the
character of the neighborhood.
   (a)   Such belief must be supported by evidence of a level of maintenance
significantly below that of the rest of the neighborhood.
   (b)   Such evidence shall include conditions declared unlawful under §
8-2A08 but shall not include conditions which are not readily visible from any
public place or from any surrounding private property.
§ 8-2A08 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to exist on any
residential, commercial or industrial premises conditions which are injurious
to the health, safety or general welfare of the residents of the community or
conditions which are detrimental to adjoining property, the neighborhood or the
city.
   (b)   For the purpose of fair and efficient enforcement and administration,
such unlawful conditions shall be classified as follows.
      (1)   Exterior conditions (yard) shall include, but not be limited to,
the scattering over or the parking, leaving, depositing or accumulation on the
yard of any of the following:
         (A)   Lumber, wire, metal, tires, concrete, masonry products, plastic
products, supplies, equipment, machinery, auto parts, junk or refuse;
         (B)   Abandoned motor vehicles;
         (C)   Furniture, stoves, refrigerators, televisions, sinks, bicycles,
lawn mowers or other such items of personal property; and
         (D)   Nauseous substances, carcasses of dead animals or places where
animals are kept in an offensive manner.
      (2)   Exterior conditions (structure) shall include, but not be limited
to, deteriorated, dilapidated or unsightly:
         (A)   Exteriors of any structure;
         (B)   Exteriors of any accessory structure; or
         (C)   Fences, walls or retaining walls.
§ 8-2A09 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-2A08 an order stating the violation. The order shall be served on the owner
or agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail. The order shall
state:
      (1)   The condition which has caused the violation of this article;
      (2)   That the person in violation shall have:
         (A)   Ten days from receipt of the order to alleviate the exterior
conditions (yard) violation;
         (B)   Fourth-five days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the
exterior conditions (structure) violation; or
         (C)   In the alternative to divisions (b)(2)(A) and (b)(2)(B) above,
ten days from the receipt of the order, plus any additional time granted under
division (b)(3) below, to request, as provided in §
8-2A12, a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative on
the matter.
      (3)   Provided, however, that the governing body, or its designee named
herein, shall grant one or more extensions to the time periods stated in
divisions (b)(2)(B) and (b)(2)(C), above, if the owner or agent of the property
demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in the abatement of the
conditions which have caused the violation of this article; and
      (4)   That failure to alleviate the condition or to request a hearing may
result in prosecution under §
8-2A10 and/or abatement of the condition by the city according to §
8-2A11 with the costs assessed against the property under §
8-2A14.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1617e
§ 8-2A10 PENALTY.
   The Public Officer may file a complaint in the Municipal Court against any
person found to be in violation of §
8-2A08, provided, however, that such person shall first have been sent a notice
as provided in §
8-2A09 and that the person has neither alleviated the conditions causing the
alleged violation nor requested a hearing before the governing body within the
time periods specified in §
8-2A09. Upon such complaint in the Municipal Court, any person found to be in
violation of §
8-2A08 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $100 or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment, for each offense. For the purposes of this article, a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which such
violation is permitted to exist.
§ 8-2A11 ABATEMENT.
   In addition to, or as an alternative to, prosecution as provided in §
8-2A10, the Public Officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner.
   (a)   If a person to whom an order has been served pursuant to §
8-2A09 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time periods specified
in §
8-2A09, the Public Officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the Public Officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-2A14.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the Public Officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (c)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-2A12 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-2A09, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the Public Officer. The hearing shall be held
by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
manner provided in §
8-2A11.
§ 8-2A13 APPEALS.
   Any person affected by any determination of the governing body under §§
8-2A11 or
8-2A12 may appeal such determination in the manner provided by K.S.A. 60-2101.
§ 8-2A14 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-2A11, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or
removal incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is
due within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover
the cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section.
The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located, and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs, and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land, and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
§ 8-2A15 CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
laws nor to prevent or punish violations thereof. The powers conferred by this
article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by the
Kansas Constitution, by any other law or by ordinance.
ARTICLE 3: JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
8-301   Findings of governing body
   
8-302   Definitions
   
8-303   Nuisances unlawful; defined; exceptions
   
8-304   Public officer
   
8-305   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-306   Right of entry
   
8-307   Order of violation
   
8-308   Same; contents
   
8-309   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-310   Abatement
   
8-311   Disposition of vehicle; recovery of vehicle
   
8-312   Hearing
   
8-313   Costs assessed
§ 8-301 FINDINGS OF GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body finds that junked, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative or
abandoned vehicles affect the health, safety and general welfare of citizens of
the city because they:
   (a)   Serve as a breeding ground for flies, mosquitoes, rats and other
insects and rodents;
   (b)   Are a danger to persons, particularly children, because of broken
glass, sharp metal protrusions, insecure mounting on blocks, jacks or other
supports;
   (c)   Are a ready source of fire and explosion;
   (d)   Encourage pilfering and theft;
   (e)   Constitute a blighting influence upon the area in which they are
located; and
   (f)   Constitute a fire hazard because they frequently block access for fire
equipment to adjacent buildings and structures.
§ 8-302 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE. A condition of being junked, wrecked, wholly or partially
dismantled, discarded, abandoned or unable to perform the function or purpose
for which it was originally constructed.
   VEHICLE. Without limitation, any automobile, truck, tractor or motorcycle
which as originally built contained an engine, regardless of whether it
contains an engine at any other time.
§ 8-303 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any motor vehicle
nuisance within the city.
   (a)   (1)   A MOTOR VEHICLE NUISANCE is any motor vehicle that is not
currently registered or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149, inclusive, as
amended; or parked in violation of city ordinance; or incapable of moving under
its own power; or in a junked, wrecked or inoperable condition.
      (2)   Any one of the following conditions shall raise the presumption
that a vehicle is junked, wrecked or inoperable:
         (A)   Absence of a current registration plate upon the vehicle;
         (B)   Placement of the vehicle or parts thereof upon jacks, blocks or
other supports; or
         (C)   Absence of one or more parts of the vehicle necessary for the
lawful operation of the vehicle upon street or highway.
   (b)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle that is enclosed in a garage or other building;
      (2)   To the parking or storage of a vehicle inoperable for a period of
30 consecutive days or less; or
      (3)   To any person conducting a business enterprise in compliance with
existing zoning regulations or who places such vehicles behind screening of
sufficient size, strength and density to screen such vehicles from the view of
the public and to prohibit ready access to stored vehicles by children;
however, nothing in this division (b)(3) shall be construed to authorize the
maintenance of a public nuisance.
§ 8-304 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The City Administrator shall designate a public officer to be charged with
the administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-305 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located, or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Board of Health, Chief of Police or
the Fire Chief. The public officer may make such inquiry and inspection when he
or she observes conditions that appear to constitute a nuisance. Upon making
any inquiry and inspection, the public officer shall make a written report of
findings.
§ 8-306 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer has the right of access and entry upon private property
at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inquiry and inspection to
determine if a nuisance exists.
§ 8-307 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-303 an order stating the violation. The order shall be served on the owner or
agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident,
then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-308 SAME; CONTENTS.
   (a)   The order shall state the condition(s) which is/are in violation of §
8-303.
   (b)   The order shall also inform the person, corporation, partnership or
association that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from receipt of the order to
abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-303; or
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from receipt of the order to request
a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative of the
matter as provided by §
8-312.
   (c)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-309 and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as provided by §
8-310.
§ 8-309 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person fail to comply with the order to abate the nuisance or
request a hearing, the public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal
Court of the city against such person, and, upon conviction of any violation of
provisions of §
8-303, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, or be imprisoned not to exceed
30 days, or be both fined and imprisoned. Each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues after notice has been served shall constitute an
additional or separate offense.
§ 8-310 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to, prosecution as provided in §
8-309, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this article in the
following manner. If a person to whom an order has been sent pursuant to §
8-307 has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation or
requested a hearing before the governing body within the time period specified
in §
8-308, the public officer may present a resolution to the governing body for
adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of the city to abate
the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days after passage of
the resolution.
   (b)   (1) The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by
the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the
nuisance was located as provided in §
8-313.
      (2)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in
violation in one of the following ways:
         (A)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
         (B)   Service by certified mail, return receipt requested; or
         (C)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
      (3)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed
to accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or
order sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a nonresident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-311 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE; RECOVERY OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   Disposition of any motor vehicle removed and abated from private
property pursuant to this article shall be as provided by K.S.A. 8-1102, and
amendments thereto.
   (b)   Any person attempting to recover a motor vehicle impounded as provided
in this article shall show proof of valid registration and ownership of the
motor vehicle before the motor vehicle shall be released. In addition, the
person desiring the release of the motor vehicle shall pay all reasonable costs
associated with the impoundment of the motor vehicle, including transportation
and storage fees, prior to the release of the motor vehicle.
§ 8-312 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-308, such request shall be made in writing to the governing body. Failure to
make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s
right to contest the findings of the public officer. The hearing shall be held
by the governing body or its designated representative as soon as possible
after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall be advised by
the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by counsel, and the
person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence as is deemed
necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated representative.
The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules of evidence.
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body or its
designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted by the
governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in the
matter provided in §
8-310.
§ 8-313 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-310, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section. The
notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located, and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs, and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land, and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
ARTICLE 4: WEEDS
Section
   
8-401   Weeds to be removed
   
8-402   Definition
   
8-403   Public officer; notice to remove
   
8-404   Penalty
   
8-405   Abatement; assessment of costs
   
8-406   Substitute provisions
   
8-407   Right of entry
   
8-408   Unlawful interference
   
8-409   Noxious weeds
§ 8-401 WEEDS TO BE REMOVED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, lessee, tenant or other person
occupying or having charge or control of any premises to permit weeds to remain
upon said premises or any area between the property lines of said premises and
the centerline of any adjacent street or alley, including, but not specifically
limited to, sidewalks, streets, alleys, easements, rights-of-way and all other
areas, public or private. All weeds as hereinafter defined are hereby declared
a nuisance and are subject to abatement as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 582-14, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 8-402 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Brush and woody vines shall be classified as WEEDS;
      (2)   WEEDS and grasses which may attain such large growth as to become,
when dry, a fire menace to adjacent improved property;
      (3)   WEEDS which are located in an area which harbors rats, insects,
animals, reptiles or any other creature which either may or does constitute a
menace to health, public safety or welfare;
      (4)   WEEDS and grasses on or about residential property which, because
of its height, has a blighting influence on the neighborhood. Any such weeds
and indigenous grasses shall be presumed to be blighting if they exceed 12
inches in height; and
      (5)   An exception to the definition of WEEDS is made for prairie
restoration or other intended natural habitat areas.
(Ord. 582-14, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 8-403 PUBLIC OFFICER; NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (a)   The City Administrator shall designate a public officer to be charged
with the administration and enforcement of this article. The public officer or
authorized assistant shall give written notice to the owner, occupant or agent
of such property by first-class mail or by personal service to cut or destroy
weeds; provided, however, that if the property is unoccupied and the owner is a
nonresident, such notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the owner. Such notice shall only be
given once per calendar year, with a CALENDAR YEAR being January 1 to December
31.
   (b)   The notice to be given hereunder shall state:
      (1)   That the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property is in
violation of the city weed control law;
      (2)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property is
ordered to cut or destroy the weeds within ten days of mailing of the notice,
plus any additional time granted under division (d) below;
      (3)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property may
request a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative
within five days of mailing of the notice or, if the owner is unknown or a
nonresident and there is no resident agent, ten days after notice has been
published by the City Clerk in the official city newspaper, plus any additional
time granted under division (d) below;
      (4)   That if the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property
does not cut or destroy the weeds or fails to request a hearing within the
allowed time, the city or its authorized agent will cut or destroy the weeds
and assess the cost of cutting or destroying the weeds, including a reasonable
administrative fee, against the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the
property;
      (5)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property will
be given an opportunity to pay the assessment, and if it is not paid within 30
days of such notice, it will be added to the property tax as a special
assessment;
      (6)   That no further notice will be given during the current calendar
year prior to the removal of weeds from the property; and
      (7)   That the public officer should be contacted if there are questions
regarding the order.
   (c)   If there is a change in the record owner of title to property
subsequent to the giving of notice pursuant to this section, the city may not
recover any costs or levy an assessment for the costs incurred by the cutting
or destruction of weeds on such property unless the new record owner of title
to such property is provided notice as required by this section.
   (d)   Provided, however, that the governing body or its designee named
herein shall grant one or more extensions to the time periods stated in
divisions (b)(2) and (b)(3) above if the owner or agent of the property
demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in the abatement of the
conditions which have caused the violation.
(Ord. 582-14, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 8-404 PENALTY.
   The public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal Court against any
person found to be in violation of §
8-401, provided however, that such person shall first have been sent a notice
as provided in §
8-403 and that the person has neither alleviated the conditions causing the
alleged violation nor requested a hearing before the governing body within the
time periods specified. Upon such complaint in the Municipal Court, any person
found to be in violation of §
8-401 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $100 or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 582-14, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 8-405 ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (a)   If the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property has neither
alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor requested a hearing
within the time periods specified in §
8-403(b), the public officer or an authorized assistant shall abate or remove
the conditions causing the violation.
   (b)   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to this section,
the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent, by first-class
mail, of the total cost of the abatement or removal incurred by the city. The
notice shall also state that the payment is due within 30 days following the
mailing of the notice. The city also may recover the cost of providing notice,
including any postage, required by this section.
   (c)   The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or
abatement is not paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or
removal shall be collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and
amendments thereto, or shall be assessed as special assessments and charged
against the lot or parcel of land on which the nuisance was located, and the
City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify the
unpaid portion of the costs, and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the
tax rolls of the county against such lot or parcel of land, and it shall be
collected by the County Treasurer and paid to the city as other city taxes are
collected and paid. The city may pursue collection both by levying a special
assessment and in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments
thereto, but only until the full cost and applicable interest has been paid in
full.
(Ord. 582-14, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 8-406 SUBSTITUTE PROVISIONS.
   The governing body of the city is authorized to adopt by resolution a
schedule of costs to be imposed for the abatement or removal of weeds incurred
by the city, which rates will go into effect upon the passage of such
resolution.
(Ord. 582-14, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 8-407 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer, and the public officer’s authorized assistants,
employees, contracting agents or other representatives, are hereby expressly
authorized to enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of cutting, destroying and/or removing such weeds in a manner not
inconsistent with this article.
(Ord. 582-14, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 8-408 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or to attempt to
prevent the public officer or the public officer’s authorized representative
from entering upon any such lot or piece of ground or from proceeding with such
cutting and destruction. Such interference shall constitute a code violation.
(Ord. 582-14, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 8-409 NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   Nothing in this article shall affect or impair the rights of the city under
the provisions of K.S.A. Ch. 2, Art. 13, relating to the control and
eradication of certain noxious weeds.
(Ord. 582-14, passed 7-14-2014)
ARTICLE 5: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
8-501   Title
   
8-502   General
   
8-503   Declaration of policy
   
8-504   Definitions
   
8-505   Duty of occupant or owner of occupied or unoccupied building and its
premises or vacant premises
   
8-506   Regulations for the use and occupancy of dwellings
   
8-507   Maintenance and repair; dwellings
   
8-508   Designation of unfit dwellings
   
8-509   Designation of blighted premises (residential and nonresidential)
   
8-510   Designation of blighted buildings and premises (nonresidential)
   
8-511   Inspection of buildings, structures and premises
   
8-512   Notice of violations; procedures
   
8-513   Public officer; authority
   
8-514   Governing body; authority
   
8-515   Order to correct and/or repair, remove or demolish
   
8-516   Demolition by public officer; procedure and costs
   
8-517   Conflict of laws; effect or partial invalidity
   
8-518   Governing body; appeals
   
8-519   Right of petition
§ 8-501 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Minimum Standard for Housing and
Premises Code,” and will be referred to herein as “this code.”
§ 8-502 GENERAL.
   Buildings used in whole or in part as a home or residence of a single family
or person and every building used in whole or in part as a home or residence of
two or more persons or families living in separate apartments and all premises,
either residential or nonresidential, shall conform to the requirements of this
code.
§ 8-503 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The governing body declares the purpose of this code is to protect, preserve
and promote the physical and mental health of the people; investigate and
control communicable diseases; regulate privately- and publicly-owned
structures or dwellings and all premises for the purpose of sanitation, public
health and general appearance; protect the safety of the people; and promote
the general welfare by legislation that shall be applicable to all dwellings,
structures and premises now in existence or hereafter constructed or developed,
and which legislation:
   (a)   Establishes minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities for
light, ventilation and heating, for safety from fire, for the use and location
and amount of space for human occupancy and for safe and sanitary maintenance;
   (b)   Establishes standards concerning unsightly and blighted buildings and
premises, both residential and nonresidential structures;
   (c)   Determines the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants;
and
   (d)   Provides for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-504 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partially underground, but having
less than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partially or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   DWELLING. Any building that is wholly or partially used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided, that temporary
housing hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used, or intended to
be used, for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   HABITABLE DWELLING. Any structure or part thereof that shall be used as a
home or place of abode by one or more persons.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room designed to be used for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking purposes, excluding bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls and storage
places, or other similar places not used by persons for extended periods.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of insects, rodents
or other pests.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, owns or has control of a premises
or of a building or structure or part thereof, in which dwelling units or
rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation who jointly or severally along with
others shall be in actual possession of, or have charge, care and control of,
any structure or dwelling unit or premises within the city as owner, employee
or agent of the owner, or as trustee or guardian of the estate or person of the
title holder, and such person shall be deemed and taken to be the owner or
owner of such property within the true intent and meaning of this code and
shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this article to the same extent
as the record owner, and notice to any such person shall be deemed and taken to
be a good and sufficient notice as if such person or persons were actually the
record owner or owner of such property.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas or fuel pipes, gas or fuel burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes-washing machines, catch basins,
drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer, gas or fuel lines.
   PREMISES. Any lot or land area, either residential or nonresidential, not
covered by a structure and which is subject to a city tax in part or in whole.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The person designated by the City Administrator.
   REFUSE. For the purpose of this article, REFUSE shall include garbage and
trash.
      (1)   GARBAGE. Any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable waste
matter that attends the preparation of, use of, cooking of, delivering of, or
storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable.
      (2)   TRASH (COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, COMBUSTIBLE
TRASH shall mean waste consisting of papers, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood and
excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding and leaves,
or any other combustible materials.
      (3)   TRASH (NON-COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, NON-
COMBUSTIBLE TRASH shall mean waste consisting of metals, tin cans, glass,
crockery, other mineral refuse and ashes and street rubbish and sweepings,
dirt, sand, concrete scrap or any other non-combustible material.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of a dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
something having a location on the ground.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter that is designed to be transportable and that is not attached to the
ground, house or building or another structure, or to any utilities system on
the same premises for more than 30 consecutive days, except when located in a
mobile home court duly licensed under laws of the city.
   WORDS, MEANINGS. Whenever the words “dwelling,” “dwelling unit,” “rooming
house,” “rooming unit” or “premises” are used in this article, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
§ 8-505 DUTY OF OCCUPANT OR OWNER OF OCCUPIED OR UNOCCUPIED BUILDING AND ITS
PREMISES OR VACANT PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner of every occupied or unoccupied
dwelling, building and premises, or vacant premises, including all yards, lawns
and courts, to keep such property clean and free from any accumulation of
filth, rubbish, garbage or any similar matter as covered by §§
8-508 and
8-509.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of each occupant of a dwelling unit to keep in
clean condition the portion of the property that he or she occupies and of
which he or she has exclusive control, to comply with the rules and
regulations, and to place all garbage and refuse in proper containers. Where
care of the premises is not the responsibility of the occupant, then the owner
is responsible for violations of this code applicable to the premises.
   (c)   If receptacles are not provided by the owner, then the occupant shall
provide receptacles as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single-dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the unit primarily infested.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
vermin-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner and operator.
   (f)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
§ 8-506 REGULATIONS FOR THE USE AND OCCUPANCY OF DWELLINGS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping,
cooking or eating therein that does not comply with the following requirements.
   (b)   The following requirements are hereby declared essential to the health
and safety of the occupants of such dwelling or dwelling unit.
      (1)   Attached garages or non-dwelling areas. All non-dwelling
occupancies shall be separated from the dwelling unit by a fire-resistant wall,
and if the dwelling and garage are covered by a common or connecting roof, then
the ceiling also must have a fire resistance rating of not less than one hour
as defined in the Building Code.
      (2)   Basement or cellar. The basement or cellar of any dwelling shall be
reasonably dry and ventilated and shall be kept free from rubbish accumulation.
      (3)   Basement dwelling units. The use of basements or cellars for
dwelling units is prohibited unless they comply with division (b)(18) below
governing ventilation, provided however, if occupied at the time of the passage
of this code and if it complies with all other provisions of this code, the
public officer may approve less than the required windows if, in his or her
opinion, the window area is not detrimental to the occupants.
      (4)   Bathing facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within a room
which affords privacy to a person in the room, a bathtub or shower in good
working condition and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
      (5)   Boarding and rooming houses. No room shall be used for sleeping
purposes unless the ceiling height is at least seven feet and there are at
least 400 cubic feet of air space for each occupant over six years of age. For
sleeping rooms with sloping ceilings, the ceiling height shall be at least
seven feet over at least 50% of the floor area.
         (A)   Bathing facilities shall be provided in the form of a tub or
shower for each eight occupants. Separate facilities shall be provided for each
sex and plainly marked.
         (B)   A flush water closet shall be provided for each six occupants
and shall be separated with the separate access from bathing facilities if more
than four occupants are served by each. Separate facilities shall be provided
for each sex and shall be plainly marked.
      (6)   Drainage. All courts, yards or other areas on the premises of any
dwelling shall be so graded and drained that there is no pooling of the water
thereon. Properly constructed wading and swimming pools and fish ponds are
excepted from this section.
      (7)   Entrances.
         (A)   There shall be for each dwelling unit a normally used separate
access either to a hallway, stairway or street that is safe and in good repair.
         (B)   A secondary exit to the ground shall be available in case of
fire through windows, porch roofs, ladders or any combination that is free of
hazard or egress.
      (8)   Floor area. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square
feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional
square feet of floor space for every additional occupant thereof. The floor
space shall be calculated on the basis of total habitable room area, inside
measurements. No floor space shall be included in determining habitable room
area over which the ceiling is less than seven feet above the floor for the
purpose of this division (b)(8).
      (9)   Garbage and trash receptacles. Every dwelling and every dwelling
unit shall be provided with such receptacles, not exceeding 32-gallon capacity,
as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash and such receptacles shall
at all times be maintained in good repair.
      (10)   Heating. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit shall be so
constructed, insulated and maintained and be provided by the owner or occupant
with heating units so that it is capable of reaching an air temperature of 70°F
under ordinary winter conditions. The chimney of the dwelling or dwelling unit
shall be maintained in good order and the owner of the approved heating
equipment shall maintain it in good order and repair.
      (11)   Kitchen sink. In every dwelling unit containing two or more rooms,
there shall be at least one kitchen sink with public water under pressure and
connected to the public sewer, or if that sewer system is not available, to a
sewage disposal system approved by the City Health Department.
      (12)   Lavatory facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within its
walls a lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and located in the same room as the required
flush water closet or as near to the room as practicable.
      (13)   Lighting. Every habitable room shall have a ceiling electric
outlet and a duplex outlet in wall or floor, or at least two wall or floor
outlets.
      (14)   Lighting of toilets and bathrooms. Every toilet and every bathroom
in every dwelling shall have at least one electric light in either the ceiling
or on the wall.
      (15)   Plumbing. All plumbing, water closets and other plumbing fixtures
in every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be maintained in good working order.
      (16)   Privies. All pit privies, privy vaults, “dry hopper” sewer-
connected privies and frost-proof closets are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
      (17)   Toilet facilities. There shall be at least one flush water closet
in good working condition for each dwelling unit, which flush water closet
shall be located within the dwelling and in a room that affords privacy.
      (18)   Ventilation. Every habitable room in a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall contain a window or windows openable directly to the outside air, and the
total area of such window or windows shall be not less than 5% of the floor
area of such room. An approved system of mechanical ventilation or air
conditioning may be used in lieu of openable windows. Such system shall be
capable of providing not less than four air changes per hour, except that in
toilet compartments, such system shall provide a complete air change every five
minutes and be automatically put in operation when the toilet compartment light
is in the “on” position.
      (19)   Water heating facilities. Every dwelling shall have supplied water
heating facilities that are installed in an approved manner and are maintained
and operated in a safe and good working condition and are properly connected
with the hot water lines to the kitchen sink, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
      (20)   Windows and doors. Every window and exterior door shall be
reasonably weather-tight, lockable and rodent-proof and shall be kept in good
working condition and good repair.
§ 8-507 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR; DWELLINGS.
   Every dwelling and every part thereof shall be maintained in good repair by
the owner or agent and be fit for human habitation. The roof shall be
maintained so as not to leak and all rainwater shall be drained therefrom so as
not to cause dampness in the walls or ceilings. All floors, stairways, doors,
porches, windows, skylights, chimneys, toilets, sinks, walls and ceilings shall
be kept in good repair and usable condition.
§ 8-508 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and placarding of such unfit dwellings or dwelling units shall be carried out
in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Existence of conditions. The public officer may determine, or five
citizens may petition in writing, that any dwelling unit is unfit for human use
or habitation if he, she or they find that conditions exist in such structure
that are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the
occupants of such buildings or other residents of the neighborhood, or which
shall have a blighting influence on properties in the area.
   (b)   Conditions generally. Such conditions may include the following
without limitation:
      (1)   Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other
calamities.
      (2)   Lack of:
         (A)   Adequate ventilation;
         (B)   Light;
         (C)   Cleanliness; and
         (D)   Sanitary facilities.
      (3)   Dilapidation;
      (4)   Disrepair;
      (5)   Structural defects;
      (6)   Overcrowding;
      (7)   Inadequate ingress and egress;
      (8)   Unsightly appearance that constitute a blight to the adjoining
property, the neighborhood or the city; and
      (9)   Air pollution.
   (c)   Placarding; order to vacate. Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned
as unfit for human habitation, and so designated and placarded by the public
officer, shall be vacated within a reasonable time as so ordered.
   (d)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-512 are applicable hereto.
   (e)   Compliance required before re-occupancy. No dwelling or dwelling unit
that has been condemned and placarded as unfit for human habitation shall again
be used for human habitation until written approval is secured from and such
placard is removed by the public officer.
      (1)   The public officer shall remove such placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to let, lease, occupy or permit the
occupancy, whether for a consideration or not, of any dwelling so posted, and
any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within the
meaning of this code.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or remove the placard
from any dwelling or dwelling unit that has been condemned as unfit for human
habitation and placarded as such, except the public officer as herein provided,
and any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within
the meaning of this code.
§ 8-509 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED PREMISES (RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL).
   The designation of unsightly and blighted premises and elimination thereof
shall be carried out in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Public officer determinations. The public officer may determine, or
five citizens may petition in writing, that if the appearance of a premises is
not commensurate with the character of the properties in the neighborhood or
otherwise constitutes a blight to the adjoining property or the neighborhood or
the city for such reasons as, but not limited to:
      (1)   Dead trees or other unsightly natural growth;
      (2)   Unsightly stored or parked material, equipment, supplies,
machinery, trucks or automobiles or parts thereof; vermin infestation,
inadequate drainage; and
      (3)   Violation of any other law or regulations relating to the use of
land and the use and occupancy of the buildings and improvements.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-512 are applicable hereto.
§ 8-510 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED BUILDINGS AND PREMISES (NONRESIDENTIAL).
   (a)   Certain blighted conditions. Certain blighted conditions covered in §§
8-508 and
8-509 concerning buildings and premises that are on the tax roll of the city
are applicable to all nonresidential buildings and premises.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures of notification shall follow those
prescribed in §
8-512.
§ 8-511 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND PREMISES.
   (a)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
code, the public officer or his or her authorized representative is hereby
authorized to make inspections to determine the condition, use and occupancy of
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and the premises upon which the same
are located. This requirement is applicable to existing dwellings or buildings.
   (b)   The public officer is not limited by the conditions in division (a)
above where new construction or vacant premises are involved and may make such
inspections at any appropriate time.
   (c)   The owner, operator and occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit and
rooming unit shall give the public officer, or his or her authorized
representative, during reasonable hours, free access to such dwelling, dwelling
unit and rooming unit, and its premises, for the purpose of such inspection,
examination and survey after identification by proper credentials.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling shall give the owner thereof, or his or
her authorized agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling, or its
premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this
code or with any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated, or any order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this code.
§ 8-512 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Informal discussion. Whenever the public officer or his or her
authorized representative determines that there has been a violation of any
provision of this code, the public officer will arrange with the alleged
violator for an informal discussion of violations, and whether repair and
correction is justified.
   (b)   Formal hearing. If a satisfactory solution to the violations either by
correction, demolition or removal is not forthcoming, then a legal notice of a
formal hearing will be issued according to the following procedures:
      (1)   Shall be in writing;
      (2)   Shall list the violations alleged to exist or to have been
committed;
      (3)   Shall provide a reasonable time, but not less than 30 days in any
event for the correction of the violations particularized;
      (4)   Shall be addressed to and served upon the owner of the property,
the operator of the dwelling and the occupant of the dwelling unit or the
rooming unit concerned, if the occupant is or may be responsible for violation;
      (5)   If one or more persons whom the notice is addressed cannot be found
or served after diligent effort to do so, service may be made upon such person
or persons by posting a notice in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling
affected by the notice, in which event the public officer or his or her
authorized representative shall include in the record a statement as to why
such posting was necessary; and
      (6)   Delivery shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service. If service is made by certified mail, the public officer
or his or her authorized representative shall include in the record a verified
statement giving details regarding the mailing.
§ 8-513 PUBLIC OFFICER; AUTHORITY.
   For the purpose of protecting the city against unsightly or blighted
premises, and also the health, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of
dwellings or dwelling units, the public officer referred heretofore is hereby
authorized, with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, to
enforce provisions of this code and of other laws that regulate or set
standards affecting buildings and premises.
§ 8-514 GOVERNING BODY; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body is hereby authorized:
   (a)   To informally review all alleged violations as provided in §
8-512(a) prior to notification prescribed in §
8-512(b);
   (b)   To take action as prescribed in §
8-512(b);
   (c)   To hear appeals if there is opposition to any order, requirement,
decision or determination by the public officer in enforcement of this code as
outlined in §
8-518; and
   (d)   Discretionary authority may be exercised in specific cases where
variance from the terms of the code as:
      (1)   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare of
inhabitants of the city;
      (2)   Is in harmony with the spirit of this code; and
      (3)   Where literal enforcement of the code will result in unnecessary
hardship.
§ 8-515 ORDER TO CORRECT AND/OR REPAIR, REMOVE OR DEMOLISH.
   At the time of the placarding and order to vacate specified by §
8-508(c) hereof, the public officer shall also issue and cause to be served
upon the owner a notice advising of the option of removal or demolition in lieu
of correction and/or repair following the procedures as outlined in §
8-512.
§ 8-516 DEMOLITION BY PUBLIC OFFICER; PROCEDURE AND COSTS.
   (a)   With failure to comply with the order under §
8-515 for the alteration or improvement of such structure, the public officer,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, may cause such
condemned structure to be removed or demolished and the premises improved to
eliminate the conditions outlined in §
8-509.
   (b)   The cost of demolition by a public officer shall be a lien upon the
property upon which the cost was incurred and such lien, including as a part
thereof an allowance of his or her costs and necessary attorney’s fees, may be
foreclosed in judicial proceedings in the manner provided or authorized by law
for loans secured by liens on real property or shall be assessed as a special
assessment upon the lot or parcel of land on which the structure was located,
and the City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify
the unpaid portion of the aforesaid costs, and the County Clerk shall extend
the same on the tax rolls against the lot or parcel of land.
   (c)   If the structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, he or
she shall offer for bids and sell the structure or the materials of such
structure. The proceeds of such sale shall be credited against the cost of the
removal or demolition and, if there is any balance remaining, it shall be paid
to the parties entitled thereto after deduction of costs or judicial
proceedings, if any, including the necessary attorney’s fees incurred therein,
as determined by the court, if involved.
§ 8-517 CONFLICT OF LAWS; EFFECT OR PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   (a)   For conflicts between the provisions of this code and with a provision
of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or code of the city
existing on the effective date of this article, the provision shall prevail
that establishes the higher standard.
   (b)   For conflicts between this article with a provision of any other
ordinance or code of the city existing on the effective date of this article
that establishes a lower standard, the provisions of this article shall be
deemed to prevail and such other laws or codes are hereby declared to be
repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict with this code.
§ 8-518 GOVERNING BODY; APPEALS.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation considering themselves aggrieved by
the decision of the public officer and who desires to present a formal protest
to the governing body shall in writing request a hearing before the governing
body within ten days after receiving notice of the decision from the public
officer, as provided in §
8-512(b). Such protest and request for a hearing shall be filed with the office
of the City Clerk.
   (b)   Upon receipt of a protest and request for a hearing, the City Clerk
shall notify in writing the governing body of such appeal.
   (c)   The governing body shall, within 30 days of receipt of protest and
request for a hearing, determine a date for the hearing.
   (d)   Notice of the date for the hearing shall be sent to the appellant at
least ten days before the hearing.
   (e)   Except where an immediate hazard exists as described in §
4-612 of this code, the filing of a protest and request for a hearing before
the governing body as specified in division (a) above shall operate as a stay
of the enforcement of the public officer’s order until such time as the
governing body has reached a decision on the matter.
§ 8-519 RIGHT OF PETITION.
   After exhausting the remedy provided in §
8-518, any person aggrieved by an order issued by the public officer and
approved by the governing body after a hearing on the matter may, within 30
days from the date that the order became final, petition the District Court of
the county in which the property is located to restrain the public officer from
carrying out the provisions of the order.
ARTICLE 6: RODENT CONTROL
Section
   
8-601   Definitions
   
8-602   Building maintenance
   
8-603   Notice to rat-stop; when city to do work
   
8-604   Failure to comply
   
8-605   Replace rat-stoppage
   
8-606   Notice to eradicate rats
   
8-607   Conditions conducive to harborage of rats
   
8-608   Inspections
§ 8-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted for
occupancy as a residence; the transaction of business; the rendering of
professional services; amusement; the display, sale or storage of goods, wares
or merchandise; or the performance of work or labor, including office
buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants, workshops
and all other houses, sheds and other structures on the premises used for
business purposes.
   OCCUPANT. The person that has the use of, controls or occupies any business
building or any portion thereof, whether owner or tenant. In the case of vacant
business buildings or any vacant portion of a business building, the owner,
agent or other person having custody of the building shall have the
responsibilities of an OCCUPANT of a building.
   OWNER. The owner of any building or structure, whether individual, firm,
partnership or corporation.
   RAT HARBORAGE. Any condition that provides shelter or protection for rats,
thus favoring their multiplication and continued existence in, under or outside
a structure of any kind.
   RAT-STOPPAGE. A form of rat-proofing to prevent the ingress of rats into
buildings from the exterior or from one building to another, consisting
essentially of the closing of all openings in the exterior walls, ground or
first floors, basements, roofs and foundations that may be reached by rats from
the ground by climbing or by burrowing with material or equipment impervious to
rat-gnawing.
§ 8-602 BUILDING MAINTENANCE.
   All buildings and structures located within the present or future boundaries
of the city shall be rat-stopped, freed of rats and maintained in a rat-stopped
and rat-free condition.
§ 8-603 NOTICE TO RAT-STOP; WHEN CITY TO DO WORK.
   Upon receipt of written notice from the governing body, the owner of any
building or structure specified therein shall take immediate measures for the
rat-stoppage of such building or structure. The work shall be completed in the
time specified in the written notice, which shall be within 15 days, or within
the time of any written extension thereof that may have been granted by the
governing body.
§ 8-604 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner fails to comply with such written notice or extension, then the
governing body is authorized to take such action as may be necessary to
completely rat-stop the building or structure at the expense of the owner, and
the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of the
building or structure. If the bills are not paid within 60 days, the City Clerk
shall certify the amount due to the City Treasurer and the charge shall be a
lien against the property where the work has been done, and the owner shall be
promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost of labor,
materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for rat-stoppage.
§ 8-605 REPLACE RAT-STOPPAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any occupant, owner, contractor, public utility
company, plumber or any other person to remove the rat-stoppage from any
building or structure for any purpose and fail to restore the same in a
satisfactory condition or to make any new openings that are not closed or
sealed against the entrance of rats.
§ 8-606 NOTICE TO ERADICATE RATS.
   Whenever the governing body notifies in writing the owner of any building or
structure theretofore rat-stopped, as hereinabove defined, that there is
evidence of rat infestation of the building or structure, the owner shall
immediately institute appropriate measures for freeing the premises so occupied
of all rats. Unless suitable measures for freeing the building or structure of
rats are instituted within five days after the receipt of notice, and unless
continually maintained in a satisfactory manner, the city is hereby authorized
to free the building or structure of rats at the expense of the owner thereof
and the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of
the building or structure, and if the same are not paid, the City Clerk shall
certify the amount due from the owner to the City Treasurer, and the owner
shall be promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost
of labor, materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for the
eradication measures.
§ 8-607 CONDITIONS CONDUCIVE TO HARBORAGE OF RATS.
   (a)   All food and feed kept within the city for feeding animals shall be
kept and stored in rat-free and rat-proof containers, compartments or rooms
unless kept in a rat-stopped building.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, leave, dump or permit to
accumulate any garbage or trash in any building or premises so that the same
shall afford food and harborage for rats.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or to permit the
accumulation on any premises or on any open lot any lumber, boxes, barrels,
bricks, stone or similar materials that may be permitted to remain thereon and
that are rat harborages, unless the same shall be placed on open racks that are
elevated not less than 12 inches above the ground, evenly piled or stacked.
   (d)   Whenever conditions inside or under any building or structure provide
such extensive harborage for rats that the Health Department deems it necessary
to eliminate such harborage, he or she may require the owner to install
suitable cement floors in basements or to replace wooden first or ground floors
or require the owner to correct such other interior rat harborage as may be
necessary to facilitate the eradication of rats in a reasonable time, and
thereby to reduce the cost of such eradication.
§ 8-608 INSPECTIONS.
   The Code Enforcement Officer is empowered to make such inspections and re-
inspections of the interior and exterior of any building or structure as in his
or her opinion may be necessary to determine full compliance with this article.
ARTICLE 7: INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
Section
   
8-701   Scope and application
   
8-702   Lien created
   
8-703   Same; encumbrances
   
8-704   Same; pro rata basis
   
8-705   Procedure
   
8-706   Fund created; deposit of monies
   
8-707   Building Inspector; investigation, removal of structure
   
8-708   Removal of structure; excess monies
   
8-709   Same; disposition of funds
   
8-710   Effect upon insurance policies
   
8-711   Insurers; liability
§ 8-701 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   The city is hereby authorized to utilize the procedures established by
K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., whereby no insurance company shall pay a claim of a
named insured for loss or damage to any building or other structure located
within the city where the amount recoverable for the loss or damage to the
building or other structure under all policies is in excess of 75% of the face
value of the policy covering such building or other insured structure, unless
there is compliance with the procedures set out in this article.
§ 8-702 LIEN CREATED.
   The governing body of the city hereby creates a lien in favor of the city on
the proceeds of any insurance policy based upon a covered claim payment made
for damage or loss to a building or other structure located within the city
where the amount recoverable for all the loss or damage to the building or
other structure under all policies is in excess of 75% of the face value of the
policy(s) covering such building or other insured structure. The lien arises
upon any unpaid tax, special ad valorem levy or any other charge imposed upon
real property by or on behalf of the city which is an encumbrance on real
property, whether or not evidenced by written instrument, or such tax, levy,
assessment, expense or other charge that has remained undischarged for at least
one year prior to the filing of a proof of loss.
§ 8-703 SAME; ENCUMBRANCES.
   Prior to final settlement on any claim covered by §
8-702, the insurer or insurers shall contact the County Treasurer, Harvey
County, Kansas, to determine whether any such encumbrances are presently in
existence. If the same are found to exist, the insurer or insurers shall
execute and transmit in an amount equal to that owing under the encumbrances a
draft payable to the County Treasurer, Harvey County, Kansas.
§ 8-704 SAME; PRO RATA BASIS.
   Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all insurance
companies insuring the building or other structure.
§ 8-705 PROCEDURE.
   (a)   When final settlement on a covered claim has been agreed to or arrived
at between the named insured or insureds and the company or companies, and the
final settlement exceeds 75% of the face value of the policy covering any
building or other insured structure, and when all amounts due the holder of a
first real estate mortgage against the building or other structure, pursuant to
the terms of the policy and endorsements thereto, shall have been paid, the
insurance company or companies shall execute a draft payable to the City
Treasurer in an amount equal to the sum of 15% of the covered claim payment,
unless the Chief Building Inspector of the city has issued a certificate to the
insurance company or companies that the insured has removed the damaged
building or other structure, as well as all associated debris, or repaired,
rebuilt or otherwise made the premises safe and secure.
   (b)   Such transfer of funds shall be on a pro rata basis by all companies
insuring the building or other structure. Policy proceeds remaining after the
transfer to the city shall be disbursed in accordance with the policy terms.
   (c)   Upon the transfer of the funds as required by division (a) above, the
insurance company shall provide the city with the name and address of the named
insured or insureds, the total insurance coverage applicable to said building
or other structure and the amount of the final settlement agreed to or arrived
at between the insurance company or companies and the insured or insureds,
whereupon the Chief Building Inspector shall contact the named insured or
insureds by certified mail, return receipt requested, notifying them that said
insurance proceeds have been received by the city and apprise them of the
procedures to be followed under this article.
§ 8-706 FUND CREATED; DEPOSIT OF MONIES.
   The City Treasurer is hereby authorized and shall create a fund to be known
as the Insurance Proceeds Fund. All monies received by the City Treasurer as
provided for by this article shall be placed in said fund and deposited in an
interest-bearing account.
§ 8-707 BUILDING INSPECTOR; INVESTIGATION, REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE.
   (a)   Upon receipt of monies as provided for by this article, the City
Treasurer shall immediately notify the Chief Building Inspector of said
receipt, and transmit all documentation received from the insurance company or
companies to the Chief Building Inspector.
   (b)   Within 30 days of the receipt of said moneys, the Chief Building
Inspector shall determine, after prior investigation, whether the city shall
instigate proceedings under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (c)   Prior to the expiration of the 30 days established by division (b)
above, the Chief Building Inspector shall notify the City Treasurer whether he
or she intends to initiate proceedings under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (d)   If the Chief Building Inspector has determined that proceedings under
K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as amended shall be initiated, he or she will do so
immediately but no later than 45 days after receipt of the monies by the City
Treasurer.
   (e)   Upon notification to the City Treasurer by the Chief Building
Inspector that no proceedings shall be initiated under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq.,
as amended, the City Treasurer shall return all such monies received, plus
accrued interest, to the insured or insureds as identified in the communication
from the insurance company or companies. Such return shall be accomplished
within 45 days of the receipt of the monies from the insurance company or
companies.
§ 8-708 REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE; EXCESS MONIES.
   If the Chief Building Inspector has proceeded under the provisions of K.S.A.
12-1750 et seq., as amended, all monies in excess of that which is ultimately
necessary to comply with the provisions for the removal of the building or
structure, less salvage value, if any, shall be paid to the insured.
§ 8-709 SAME; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   If the Chief Building Inspector, with regard to a building or other
structure damaged, determines that it is necessary to act under K.S.A. 12-1756,
any proceeds received by the City Treasurer under the authority of §
8-705(a) relating to that building or other structure shall be used to
reimburse the city for any expenses incurred by the city in proceeding under
K.S.A. 12-1756. Upon reimbursement from the insurance proceeds, the Chief
Building Inspector shall immediately effect the release of the lien resulting
therefrom. Should the expenses incurred by the city exceed the insurance
proceeds paid over to the City Treasurer under §
8-705(a), the Chief Building Inspector shall publish a new lien as authorized
by K.S.A. 12-1756 in an amount equal to such excess expenses incurred.
§ 8-710 EFFECT UPON INSURANCE POLICIES.
   This article shall not make the city a party to any insurance contract, nor
is the insurer liable to any party for any amount in excess of the proceeds
otherwise payable under its insurance policy.
§ 8-711 INSURERS; LIABILITY.
   Insurers complying with this article or attempting in good faith to comply
with this article shall be immune from civil and criminal liability, and such
action shall not be deemed in violation of K.S.A. 40-2404, and any amendments
thereto, including withholding payment of any insurance proceeds pursuant to
this article or releasing or disclosing any information pursuant to this
article.
ARTICLE 8: SMOKING
Section
   
8-801   Definitions
   
8-802   Places where smoking is prohibited
   
8-803   Responsibility of employers, proprietors, owners, managers
   
8-804   Violations and penalties
   
8-805   Effective date
§ 8-801 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENCLOSED PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT. The portion of any building, structure or
other enclosure of any type which is under the possession or control of a
public or private employer, which building, structure or enclosure (or the
employee access portion thereof) is enclosed by floor-to-ceiling walls and by
roof or ceiling structures (exclusive of doors, windows and passageways), in
which the employer’s employees engage in employment-related and other necessary
activities, including, but not limited to, work areas; lounge, dining and rest
areas; restrooms; meeting rooms; and hallways and other passageways.
   ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES. The portion or portions of any building, structure
or other enclosure of any type to which the public is invited or permitted for
the transaction of any business or the engagement in any activities, which
building, structure or enclosure (or the public portion thereof) is enclosed by
floor-to-ceiling walls and by roof or ceiling structures (exclusive of doors,
windows and passageways), and includes the portions thereof provided as public
entrances and exits, hallways and passageways, reception areas, lobbies,
waiting rooms, elevators and restrooms. Examples of ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES
include, but are not limited to, retail stores, retail service establishments
(including food and/or beverage service establishments and other commercial
facilities of all types); professional offices; educational, healthcare, child
care and adult day care facilities; indoor recreational and spoils facilities;
hotels, motels and other places of public accommodation; and convention,
conference and meeting facilities.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette or other tobacco product, or any pipe or other vessel containing
burning tobacco of any kind.
(Ord. 525-07, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8-802 PLACES WHERE SMOKING IS PROHIBITED.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all of the following places within the city:
   (a)   Enclosed public places (as defined herein);
   (b)   Any other portion of a building, structure or enclosure in which one
or more enclosed public places is located unless such portion is completely
separated from the enclosed public places by solid, structural walls which
extend from floor to ceiling, and is so maintained such that, except for brief
intermittent incidents, any doors or windows between such portions and any
enclosed public places are maintained in a closed position so as to not allow
the passage of air from such portions into the enclosed public places;
   (c)   Enclosed places of employment (as defined herein);
   (d)   All enclosed facilities and vehicles owned by the city; and
   (e)   Within a minimum of 20 feet from any outside entrance to an enclosed
area where smoking is prohibited.
(Ord. 525-07, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8-803 RESPONSIBILITY OF EMPLOYERS, PROPRIETORS, OWNERS, MANAGERS.
   (a)   It is recommended that the owner, manager or other person having
control of a building, structure or enclosure, or of any portion of a building,
structure or enclosure, where smoking is prohibited under the terms of this
article post signs at appropriate locations clearly stating that smoking is
prohibited. It is further recommended that such signs depict the words “No
Smoking” in bold lettering of not less than one inch in height, or in the
alternative, depict the international “no smoking” symbol, consisting of a
pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a
diagonal red bar across it.
   (b)   No person having control of a place, business, office or other
establishment or activity subject to this article shall knowingly permit,
cause, suffer or allow any person to violate the provisions of this article in
that place. It is recommended that such persons take all reasonable steps
necessary to prevent or stop smoking in violation of this article by employees,
patrons and visitors in the place, business, office or establishment,
including, but not limited to, posting no smoking signs; verbally asking a
person who is smoking to extinguish the smoking materials; refusing service to
a person who is illegally smoking; verbally asking anyone illegally smoking to
leave the premises; and applying standard business procedures in the same
manner for violations of house rules or other local ordinances or state laws.
   (c)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment or customer because
such employee, applicant or customer exercises any right to a smoke-free
environment afforded by this article.
(Ord. 525-07, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8-804 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any area where smoking
is prohibited by the provisions of this article. It shall also be unlawful for
any person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls any premises
subject to regulation hereunder to fail to comply with all provisions of this
article. Each day that any violation of this article occurs shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (b)   Violation of any of the provisions of the article shall be punishable
as follows:
      (1)   By a fine not exceeding $100 for the first violation;
      (2)   By a fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation occurring
within one year from the date of the first violation;
      (3)   By a fine not exceeding $500 for a third or subsequent violation
occurring within one year from the first violation; and
      (4)   Violation of this article shall be considered an unclassified
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 525-07, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8-805 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This article shall be effective from and after December 14, 2007, and its
publication in the official city newspaper.
(Ord. 525-07, passed 12-10-2007)
ARTICLE 9: NUCLEAR-FREE ZONE
Section
   
8-901   Prohibition
   
8-902   Exclusions
   
8-903   Violation
§ 8-901 PROHIBITION.
   It is hereby determined that the city shall be and is established as a
nuclear-free zone, wherein no nuclear armaments or products associated with or
connected to nuclear armaments or components may be positioned or manufactured;
nor shall there be produced any nuclear energy in any form, experimental or
commercial; nor shall there be stored any nuclear wastes of any kind therein.
(Ord. 280, passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-902 EXCLUSIONS.
   The following acts and uses are excluded from the prohibition of this
article, to wit:
   (a)   The research and application of nuclear medicine;
   (b)   Basic research the primary purpose of which is not to work toward the
development of nuclear weapons; and
   (c)   Uses of fissionable materials for smoke detectors, light-emitting
watches and clocks and other applications the primary purpose of which is not
to work toward the development of nuclear weapons.
(Ord. 280, passed 4-2-1985)
§ 8-903 VIOLATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and it is punishable by 60 days in jail or a fine of
$500, or both. Each day of the violation shall be interpreted as a separate
violation.
(Ord. 280, passed 4-2-1985)
CHAPTER IX: MUNICIPAL COURT
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
9-101   Municipal Court established
   
9-102   Same; practice and procedure
   
9-103   Time and place of sessions
   
9-104   Municipal Judge; appointment
   
9-105   Same; absence; vacancy; pro tem
   
9-106   Same; powers and duties
   
9-107   Same; salary
   
9-108   Court Clerk
   
9-109   Payment of fine
   
9-110   Same; failure to pay separate violation
   
9-111   Failure to appear
   
9-112   Court costs
§ 9-101 MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Municipal Court for the city. The Municipal
Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine cases involving violations
of the ordinances of the city.
§ 9-102 SAME; PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE.
   The State Code of Procedure for Municipal Courts, as set forth in K.S.A. 12-
4101 et seq., and all acts amendatory or supplemental thereto, shall govern the
practice and procedure in all Municipal Court cases.
§ 9-103 TIME AND PLACE OF SESSIONS.
   Pursuant to K.S.A. 12-4109, the Municipal Court of the city shall be held in
the City Council Room in the City Building at 2601 North Main Street, North
Newton, Kansas, and shall convene at 4:00 p.m. on the first Thursday of each
month beginning March 6, 2025, and if the first Thursday is a holiday, court
shall convene on the second Thursday of the month at 4:00 p.m.
(Ord. 667-25, passed 2-19-2025)
§ 9-104 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; APPOINTMENT.
   The Municipal Court shall be presided over by a Municipal Judge. The City
Administrator, subject to the approval of the City Council, shall appoint the
Judge of the Municipal Court.
§ 9-105 SAME; ABSENCE; VACANCY; PRO TEM.
   (a)   In the event the Municipal Judge is temporarily unable to preside due
to absence, illness or disqualification, the Municipal Judge shall designate an
attorney or other qualified person to act as Judge Pro Tempore. In the event
the Municipal Judge fails to appoint a Judge Pro Tempore, the Judge Pro Tempore
shall be appointed in the same manner as the Municipal Judge is selected. The
Judge Pro Tempore shall receive compensation as shall be regulated by adopted
personnel policies, payable in the same manner as the compensation of the
regular Municipal Judge.
   (b)   In the event a vacancy shall occur in the office of Municipal Judge, a
successor shall be appointed to fill the unexpired term in the same manner as
the Municipal Judge was appointed.
(K.S.A. 12-4107)
§ 9-106 SAME; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Municipal Judge shall have such powers and duties as set forth in the
State Code of Procedure for Municipal Courts (K.S.A. 12-4101 et seq.) and all
acts amendatory or supplemental thereto.
§ 9-107 SAME; SALARY.
   The Municipal Judge shall receive a salary as shall be regulated by adopted
personnel policies.
§ 9-108 COURT CLERK.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Office of the Clerk of the Municipal
Court of the city, which office shall be filled by appointment by the City
Administrator.
   (b)   The duties of the office shall be those prescribed by the Code for
Municipal Courts set forth in K.S.A. Ch. 12, Art. 41, and shall include the
following duties.
      (1)   The Clerk shall issue all processes of the Court; administer oaths;
file and preserve all papers and docket cases; and set same for trial, and
shall perform such further acts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and
responsibilities of the Court. The Clerk shall receive, account for and pay to
the City Treasurer monthly all fines and forfeited bonds paid into the Court.
The Clerk shall make reports to the Judicial Administrator and furnish the
information when requested by him, her or a Departmental Justice on such forms
furnished by the Judicial Administrator and approved by the Supreme Court.
      (2)   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall, within ten days after
selection and before entering upon the duties of office, execute to the city
such bond as the governing body may require, which shall be approved by the
governing body, and file in the office of the City Clerk, conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties required of him or her by law, and for the
faithful application and payment of all monies that may come into his or her
hands in the execution of the duties of the office. The city shall pay the cost
of such bond.
      (3)   The monthly salary of the Clerk shall be regulated by adopted
personnel policies.
      (4)   A majority of all members of the Council may remove the Clerk
appointed under the authority of this article, or for good cause the City
Administrator may temporarily suspend any such appointed Clerk.
(K.S.A. 12-4108)
§ 9-109 PAYMENT OF FINE.
   Where a Municipal Court judgment against any person results in a fine and/or
court costs only, the same shall be satisfied by paying the amount of such fine
and/or court costs to the Municipal Court immediately on the rendition of
judgment, or at such time as the Municipal Judge shall determine.
§ 9-110 SAME; FAILURE TO PAY SEPARATE VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail to pay any lawfully
imposed fine for a violation of any law of the city within the time authorized
by the Court and without lawful excuse having been presented to the Court on or
before the date the fine is due. Such conduct constitutes a violation of this
article, regardless of the full payment of the fine after such time.
§ 9-111 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person charged with violation of any law
of the city to fail to appear before the Municipal Court when so scheduled to
appear, unless lawful excuse for absence is presented to the Court on or before
the time and date scheduled for appearance.
   (b)   For the purpose of division (a) above, failure to appear shall include
willfully incurring a forfeiture of an appearance bond and failure to surrender
oneself within 30 days following the date of such forfeiture by one who is
charged with a violation of the laws of the city and has been released on bond
for appearance before the Municipal Court for trial or other proceeding prior
to conviction, or willfully incurring a forfeiture of an appearance bond and
failing to surrender oneself within 30 days after his or her conviction of a
violation of the laws of the city has become final by one who has been released
on an appearance bond by any court of this state.
   (c)   Any person who is released upon his or her own recognizance, without
surety, or who fails to appear in response to a summons, notice to appear or
traffic citation duly served upon him or her personally shall be deemed a
person released on bond for appearance within the meaning of division (b)
above.
   (d)   Failure to appear, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by
incarceration for up to 30 days and/or a fine of up to $250.
§ 9-112 COURT COSTS.
   (a)   Court costs.
      (1)   In each proceeding before the Municipal Court in which court costs
are required or are determined to be assessed against a party thereunder, such
court costs shall be in the amount of $80, which shall include and not be in
addition to any of the costs specified under K.S.A. 12-4112, as the same now
provides or as the same may hereafter be amended.
      (2)   In addition to the court costs provided above, and as part of any
such disposition for which court costs are assessed, the Municipal Judge shall
also assess the following:
         (A)   Costs specified under K.S.A. 12-4112 (already included in the
$80 noted above) as the same now provides or as the same may hereafter be
amended;
         (B)   Witness fees and mileage costs which have been incurred and
which are assessable against the defendant under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-
4411, as the same now provides or as the same may hereafter be amended;
         (C)   Jail costs as the same now provides, or as the same may
hereafter be changed by the Sheriff, which have been incurred by the city due
to the booking, fingerprinting and/or incarceration of the defendant in
relation to the charges upon which the prosecution was brought; provided,
however, that such jail costs shall not be assessed for any predisposition
incarceration if the defendant’s conviction is not based upon charges for which
the defendant could have been arrested;
         (D)   A fee in the amount of $20 for fingerprinting performed on
behalf of the Municipal Court for each case in which the defendant has been
convicted of violating municipal ordinance provisions that prohibit conduct
comparable to a Class A or B misdemeanor, or assault as defined in K.S.A. 21-
5412 and amendments thereto;
         (E)   Any costs incurred by the city for the provision of medical
treatment for a defendant who is arrested and/or incarcerated pursuant to a
city ordinance, or due to an order of a Municipal Court Judge;
         (F)   Indigent defendant attorney fees;
         (G)   The Municipal Judge shall have the authority, upon a showing of
good cause, to waive all or any part of the assessments set forth in divisions
(a)(2)(C) through (a)(2)(F) above if the making of the assessments in question
would not, under the particular circumstances of the case, serve the interests
of justice; and
         (H)   Court costs shall not be levied or assessed in any cause in
which the defendant is found not guilty.
   (b)   Authorization. This section setting forth court costs is authorized by
the substitute provisions of C.O. No. 13-16.
(Ord. 606-16, passed 4-11-2016)
CHAPTER X: POLICE
   Article
      
1.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   PROPERTY IN POLICE CUSTODY
      
3.   POLICE FEES
ARTICLE 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
10-101   Police Department
   
10-102   Law enforcement personnel; general duties
   
10-103   Rules and regulations
§ 10-101 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The law enforcement department shall consist of a Chief of Police and such
number of regular law enforcement officers as shall be appointed as provided by
K.S.A. 15-204.
§ 10-102 LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL; GENERAL DUTIES.
   (a)   It shall be the general duty of the Chief of Police and all sworn law
enforcement personnel to the best of their ability to preserve good order,
peace and quiet throughout the city as provided by law or ordinance.
   (b)   The Chief of Police and all sworn law enforcement personnel shall at
all times have power to make arrest under proper process or without process on
view of any offense against the laws of the state or laws of the city and to
keep all persons so arrested, unless admitted to bail, in the City Jail, County
Jail or other proper place to prevent their escape until their trial can be had
before the proper officer.
   (c)   All persons arrested for violation of any law of the state and who
shall not be charged with an offense under any law of the city shall be
released to the custody of the Sheriff of the county and such arrest shall be
reported to the County Attorney.
§ 10-103 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall have power to make such rules and regulations as
may be necessary for the proper and efficient conduct of the Department. Such
rules and regulations shall be approved by the governing body.
ARTICLE 2: PROPERTY IN POLICE CUSTODY
Section
   
10-201   Regulations
   
10-202   Disposition
   
10-203   Same; exempt property
   
10-204   Claiming property
   
10-205   Proof of ownership
   
10-206   Auction
§ 10-201 REGULATIONS.
   The Police Department is required to establish regulations detailing the
collection, storage and inventory of property that may come under its control
by any manner.
§ 10-202 DISPOSITION.
   Any property which has been acquired or turned over to the Police Department
and has been classified in accordance with procedures existing in the Police
Department as unclaimed or for which the proper owner cannot be ascertained
shall be kept for a minimum of 90 days. After a period of 90 days, such
property, except as provided in §
10-203, shall be sold at public auction to the highest bidder and the proceeds
after expenses shall be paid to the State Treasurer pursuant to K.S.A. 20-2801,
and amendments thereto.
§ 10-203 SAME; EXEMPT PROPERTY.
   The following classes of property shall be considered exceptions to §
10-202 and shall be dealt with in the following manner.
   (a)   Cash money shall be turned over to the City General Fund unless it
shall be determined to have collector’s value, in which case it shall be
auctioned according to the provisions in §
10-202.
   (b)   Except as provided in divisions (c) and (d) below, any weapon or
ammunition, in the discretion of the court having jurisdiction of the property,
shall be:
      (1)   Forfeited to the law enforcement agency seizing the weapon for use
within such agency, for sale to a properly licensed federal firearms dealer,
for trading to a properly licensed federal firearms dealer for other new or
used firearms or accessories for use within such agency, or for trading to
another law enforcement agency for that agency’s use;
      (2)   Forfeited to the State Bureau of Investigation for law enforcement,
testing or comparison by the State Bureau of Investigation forensic laboratory;
      (3)   Forfeited to a county regional forensic science center, or other
county forensic laboratory, for testing, comparison or other forensic science
purposes; or
      (4)   Forfeited to the State Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism
for use pursuant to the conditions set forth in K.S.A. 32-1047, and amendments
thereto.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (d) below, any weapon which cannot be
forfeited pursuant to division (b) above due to the condition of the weapon,
and any weapon which was used in the commission of a felony as described in
K.S.A. 21-5401, 21-5402, 21-5403, 21-5404 or 21-5405, and amendments thereto,
shall be destroyed.
   (d)   If a weapon is seized from an individual and the individual is not
convicted or adjudicated as a juvenile offender of the violation for which the
weapon was seized, then within 30 days after the declination or conclusion of
prosecution of the case against the individual, including any period of appeal,
the law enforcement agency that seized the weapon shall verify that the weapon
is not stolen, and upon such verification shall notify the person from whom it
was seized that the weapon may be retrieved. Such notification shall include
the location where such weapon may be retrieved.
   (e)   If weapons are sold as authorized by division (b) above, the proceeds
of the sale shall be credited to the Asset Seizure and Forfeiture Fund of the
seizing agency.
   (f)   For purposes of divisions (b), (c) and (d) above, the term WEAPON
means any:
      (1)   Bludgeon, sand club, metal knuckle or throwing star;
      (2)   Dagger, dirk, billy, blackjack, slungshot, dangerous knife,
straight-edged razor, stiletto or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instrument of like character;
      (3)   Spring gun; or
      (4)   Firearm.
   (g)   Homemade weapons or weapons of a contraband nature shall be destroyed.
   (h)   Any items determined to be contraband such as explosives, narcotics
and the like shall be destroyed.
   (i)   Controlled substances forfeited for violations of K.S.A. 21-5701
through 21-5717, and amendments thereto, shall be dealt with as provided under
K.S.A. 60-4101 through 60-4126, and amendments thereto;
   (j)   Items of a pharmaceutical nature which, while not contraband when
properly dispensed, or which are of an over-the-counter-variety, shall be
destroyed.
   (k)   Foodstuffs, if sealed and undamaged, may be turned over to any
appropriate social service agency or destroyed, but shall not be auctioned.
   (l)   Alcohol products such as beer, wine, whiskey and the like shall be
destroyed.
   (m)   Items with a value in excess of $500 may be sold after advertising
said item in a general circulation newspaper on at least two occasions. Such
sales shall be by closed bid.
(K.S.A. 22-2512)
§ 10-204 CLAIMING PROPERTY.
   The Police Department shall be required to make reasonable attempts to
locate the owner of any property in storage; however, the responsibility for
claiming and identifying any such property shall rest solely with the owner.
§ 10-205 PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   Claimants to any property in police storage shall be required to present
reasonable proof of ownership, and no property shall be released unless such
reasonable proof is presented.
§ 10-206 AUCTION.
   (a)   At such time as it has been determined that an auction is necessary to
dispose of unclaimed property, an inventory listing all property to be disposed
of shall be prepared and kept on file in the Police Department.
   (b)   Notice of an auction shall be published at least twice in a general
circulation newspaper before the date of the auction. The notice shall specify
the date, time and place of the auction and shall also notify prospective
buyers or potential claimants that a list of items to be auctioned is available
at the Police Department and any claims on property must be made before the
start of the auction.
ARTICLE 3: POLICE FEES
Section
   
10-301   Definitions
   
10-302   Initial police responses to parties, gatherings or events
   
10-303   Subsequent police responses to parties, gatherings or events;
liability
   
10-304   Cost; collection
§ 10-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOST. The person who owns or is in possession of the property where the
party, gathering or event takes place, or the person in charge of the premises,
or the person who organized the event. If the HOST is a minor, then the parents
or guardians of that minor will be jointly and severally liable for the fee
incurred for police services.
   PARTY, GATHERING or EVENT. An event involving a group of persons who have
assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or for a social activity.
   POLICE SERVICES FEE. The cost to the city of any special security
assignment, including, but not limited to, salaries of police officers while
responding to or remaining at the party, gathering or event; the pro rata cost
of equipment; the cost of repairing city equipment and property; the cost of
any medical treatment of injured police officers; and the cost of reasonable
attorney’s fees.
   SPECIAL SECURITY ASSIGNMENT. The assignment of police officers, services and
equipment during a second or subsequent response to the party, gathering or
event after the delivery of a written notice to the host that a fee may be
imposed for costs incurred by the city for any subsequent police response.
§ 10-302 INITIAL POLICE RESPONSES TO PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS.
   When any police officer responds to any party, gathering or event and that
police officer determines there is a threat to the public peace, health, safety
or general welfare, the police officer shall issue a written notice to the host
or hosts that a subsequent response to that same location or address within 24
hours of the first response shall be deemed a special security assignment
rendered to provide security and order on behalf of the party, gathering or
event and that the host may be liable for a police services fee as defined in
this article.
§ 10-303 SUBSEQUENT POLICE RESPONSES TO PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS;
LIABILITY.
   (a)   If, after a written notice is issued pursuant to §
10-302, a subsequent police response or responses is necessary to the same
location or address within 24 hours of the first response, such response or
responses shall be deemed a special security assignment. Persons previously
warned shall be jointly and severally liable for a police services fee as
defined in this article.
   (b)   The amount of the fee shall be a debt owed to the city by the person
or person warned, and if he or she is a minor, his or her parents or guardians
shall be jointly and severally liable for the debt.
§ 10-304 COST; COLLECTION.
   The Chief of Police shall notify the City Treasurer in writing of the
performance of a special security assignment, of the name and address of the
responsible person or persons, the date and time of the incident, the services
performed, the costs and such other information as may be required. The City
Treasurer shall thereafter cause appropriate billings to be made.
CHAPTER XI: PUBLIC OFFENSES
   Article
      
1.   UNIFORM OFFENSE CODE
      
2.   LOCAL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1: UNIFORM OFFENSE CODE
Section
   
11-101   Incorporating Uniform Public Offense Code
§ 11-101 INCORPORATING UNIFORM PUBLIC OFFENSE CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, for the purpose of regulating
public offenses within the corporate limits of the city, that certain code
known as the “Uniform Public Offense Code,” Forty-first Edition, published in
2025, prepared and published in book form by the League of Kansas
Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas. One copy of said Uniform Public Offense Code
shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 671-25,”
and to which shall be attached a copy of this ordinance and filed with the City
Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable
hours.
(Ord. 671-25, passed 8-11-2025)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-201   Curfew for persons under 18 years of age
   
11-202   Noise restrictions
   
11-203   Interference with official radio communications
§ 11-201 CURFEW FOR PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   (a)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18
years to be in, upon or about any public street, alley, sidewalk, public park,
public parking lot or other outdoor area open to general public access within
the city after the hour of 11:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday and before the
hour of 5:00 a.m. the following day, or after the hour of 12:00 a.m. (midnight)
on Friday or Saturday and before 5:00 a.m. the following day, unless exempted
under division (f) below.
   (b)   Exceptions. The provisions of division (a) above shall not apply under
the following circumstances:
      (1)   When the person, while in, on or about such prescribed areas, is at
all times accompanied by any of the following: his or her parent, step-parent
or legal guardian; his or her grandparent, step-grandparent, aunt or uncle; his
or her spouse; or his or her sibling who is not less than 21 years of age;
      (2)   When the person is traveling by the most direct route to or from
such person’s place of employment, or to or from a church, school or organized
recreational activity that is sponsored or supervised by one or more adults;
      (3)   When the person is engaged in normal travel through the city by a
direct, continuous route, or is engaged in normal travel by a direct route
between a location outside the city and a location inside the city; or
      (4)   When the person is traveling by the most direct route to a
destination under circumstances of an emergency nature necessitating such
travel at such time.
   (c)   Custody. Any law enforcement officer finding a person under the age of
18 years in, upon or about any public street, alley, sidewalk, public park,
public parking lot or other outdoor area open to general public access within
the city between the hours as designated in division (a) above may stop such
person and ascertain the name and address of the person and determine if such
person is in violation of the curfew restrictions of this section. If any such
person refuses to give his or her correct name or address, or is found to be in
violation of the curfew restrictions of this section, such person shall be
taken into custody and transported to the police station or other appropriate
facility for such handling and processing as is required under state and local
law as to juveniles who are taken into custody by law enforcement officials,
such procedure being at the time of the enactment of these provisions the
contacting of and transfer of custody of the juvenile to a juvenile intake
officer, unless exempted under division (f) below.
   (d)   Violation by parent or guardian. It shall be unlawful for any parent,
guardian or other person lawfully entitled to the care, custody or control of a
person under the age of 18 years to knowingly cause or permit such person to be
in violation of this section, unless exempted under division (f) below.
   (e)   Penalty. Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be
punishable as and for a Class C violation under the Uniform Public Offense Code
as adopted by the city unless exempted under division (f) below.
   (f)   Exemptions. It is an exemption to a violation under this section that
the person engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence, or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 590-14, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 11-202 NOISE RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   Restrictions. Subject to the exceptions below described, the following
acts are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in residential
areas and along the public ways, and constitute violations of this section.
      (1)   No person shall operate or cause or permit the operation of any
sound-producing or sound-reproduction device between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m., whether from inside or outside a building, in such a manner or
with such volume so as to emit sound which can be heard beyond the property
line of any residential property. For purposes of these regulations, the term
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY is defined as any property upon which a residence or a
residential living unit is located and which is located within any of the
following zoning districts: R-S, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-3 (FMFD), PUD, M-H, M-P or P-
O.
      (2)   No person shall operate or cause or permit the operation of any
sound-producing or sound-reproduction device which is located within, upon or
about any motor vehicle which is located on any public street, public parking
lot or other public right-of-way by the playing of a sound-producing device so
that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 50 or more feet from the
vehicle. Measurement standards shall be by the auditory senses, based upon
direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible and bass
reverberations are included.
      (3)   For purposes of these regulations, the terms SOUND-PRODUCING DEVICE
and SOUND-REPRODUCTION DEVICE is defined as including any of the following:
         (A)   Radios;
         (B)   Record, tape and CD players;
         (C)   Sound amplifiers;
         (D)   Musical instruments;
         (E)   Loudspeakers; and
         (F)   Any other similar device that produces, reproduces or amplifies
sound.
   (b)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any of
the following:
      (1)   Any activities conducted as an approved part of a public activity,
such as parades, fireworks, sports events, festivals, musical productions and
other activities which have the approval, within the scope of their authority,
as conferred by law on any local, state or federal governmental entity, or by
any state-accredited private or parochial school;
      (2)   Any horn, siren or other warning device that is being otherwise
lawfully operated under a privilege granted by law;
      (3)   Any activities which are reasonably related to the conduct of any
business, commercial or industrial enterprise upon property that is zoned for
such use or upon which such uses are otherwise lawful;
      (4)   Any bell tower or other similar device which is part of a permanent
structure and which tolls the passage of time or is otherwise lawfully used for
ceremonial purposes;
      (5)   The normal and customary engine noises produced by any motor
vehicle that is otherwise being lawfully operated upon the public ways or in
private driveways or parking lots;
      (6)   The normal and customary noises produced by machinery or equipment
that is being used on public or private property between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in order to remedy some emergency or other exigent
circumstances; and
      (7)   Nothing in the exceptions set forth above shall serve to allow or
authorize any activity which would otherwise be regarded as a public nuisance
other than by the provisions of this section.
   (c)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this section shall be
punishable as an unclassified violation under the Uniform Public Offense Code
as adopted by the city.
(Ord. 593-14, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 11-203 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL RADIO COMMUNICATIONS.
   (a)   Interference defined. Interference with official radio communications
is the making of any transmission upon the radio frequencies assigned to the
city for police, fire, ambulance, public utility or other municipal purposes
without first having entered into an agreement with the city to permit such
transmissions.
   (b)   Penalty. Interference with official radio communications is a Class C
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 261, passed 2-13-1984)
CHAPTER XII: PUBLIC PROPERTY
   Article
      
1.   CITY PARKS
ARTICLE 1: CITY PARKS
Section
   
12-101   City parks defined
   
12-102   Fires
   
12-103   Swimming
   
12-104   Motor or engine driven vehicles
   
12-105   Horseback riding and livestock
   
12-106   Alcoholic and cereal malt beverages
   
12-107   Trash, sanitation, rubbish, and related matter
   
12-108   Injuring property or removing equipment
   
12-109   Penalty
§ 12-101 CITY PARKS DEFINED.
   Provisions of this article shall apply to all city parks so designated
within the corporate limits of the City of North Newton, Kansas.
(Ord. 313, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 12-102 FIRES.
   Fires may be built only in ovens, stoves, fireplaces, portable grills or
other facilities designated for that purpose, and such fires shall be
extinguished before leaving the area. Fires may be prohibited entirely as a
protective measure when ordered by the city.
(Ord. 313, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 12-103 SWIMMING.
   There shall be no swimming allowed in any city park.
(Ord. 313, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 12-104 MOTOR OR ENGINE DRIVEN VEHICLES.
   Motor- or engine-driven vehicles, including, but not limited to, go-carts,
motorcycles, motor scooters, mini-bikes, motored bicycles and snowmobiles, are
not permitted in the park, except that licensed vehicles or vehicles authorized
by the Chief of Police are permitted on roadways or authorized parking areas.
(Ord. 313, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 12-105 HORSEBACK RIDING AND LIVESTOCK.
   Horseback riding or leading horses is not to be permitted in or through the
park. No livestock are permitted in the park except as an organized activity
scheduled and approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 313, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 12-106 ALCOHOLIC AND CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES.
   It is unlawful to possess or consume alcoholic and cereal malt beverages
anywhere within the parks.
(Ord. 313, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 12-107 TRASH, SANITATION, RUBBISH, AND RELATED MATTER.
   It is unlawful for any person in any park to have brought in or dump,
deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt,
rubbish, waste, garbage or refuse or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall
be placed in or contiguous to the park or left anywhere on the grounds thereof,
but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; where
receptacles are not provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away
from the parks by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed
of elsewhere.
(Ord. 313, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 12-108 INJURING PROPERTY OR REMOVING EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to mark, deface, disfigure,
injure, tamper with or displace or remove any buildings, bridges, tables,
benches, railings, paving or paving materials, water lines or other public
utilities, or parts thereof, whether temporary or permanent, structures,
equipment or facilities.
(Ord. 313, passed 7-13-1987)
§ 12-109 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this article shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a jail confinement
not to exceed 30 days and/or pay a fine which shall be fixed by the court, not
to exceed $500. Upon failure to pay such fine and costs, such person shall be
confined in jail until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 313, passed 7-13-1987)
CHAPTER XIII: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Article
      
1.   SIDEWALKS
      
2.   STREETS
      
3.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
4.   SNOW AND ICE
      
5.   USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY OR EASEMENTS BY UTILITIES OR SERVICE PROVIDERS
      
6.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
13-101   Permit required
   
13-102   Sidewalk grade
   
13-103   Same; specifications
   
13-104   Same; petition
   
13-105   Same; condemnation, reconstruction
   
13-106   Notice; publication
   
13-107   Right of abutting owner
   
13-108   Repairs by owner or city
   
13-109   Performance, statutory bond
   
13-110   Obstructing sidewalks
   
13-111   Same; exception
   
13-112   Sidewalk construction required
§ 13-101 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk within
the city until the plans first have been approved by the governing body and a
permit issued for such work by the City Clerk.
§ 13-102 SIDEWALK GRADE.
   Hereafter, all sidewalks constructed or reconstructed in the city shall be
constructed on the established grade. When the governing body shall order a
sidewalk constructed as hereafter provided, the city shall pay the cost of
bringing the street to grade for the sidewalk. Where no grade has been
established, the owner of abutting property may construct a sidewalk on the
natural grade. If the grade has been established, the City Clerk shall furnish
the property owner with the official grade by reference to a stated distance
above or below the street grade.
(K.S.A. 12-1801, 12-1807)
§ 13-103 SAME; SPECIFICATIONS.
   Hereafter, all sidewalks shall be of single-course construction and shall be
constructed and laid in accordance with standard plans and specifications
hereby adopted by reference and filed in the office of the City Clerk as
provided by K.S.A. 12-1802. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk except as provided
by this article.
§ 13-104 SAME; PETITION.
   When a petition signed by no fewer than ten citizens owning real estate in
the city requesting construction of a sidewalk is filed with the City Clerk,
the governing body may, in its discretion, by a resolution, order such sidewalk
constructed as herein provided.
(K.S.A. 12-1803)
§ 13-105 SAME; CONDEMNATION, RECONSTRUCTION.
   When any sidewalk, in the opinion of the governing body, becomes inadequate
or unsafe for travel thereon, the governing body may adopt a resolution
condemning such sidewalk and providing for the construction of a new sidewalk
in the place of the sidewalk condemned.
(K.S.A. 12-1804)
§ 13-106 NOTICE; PUBLICATION.
   The resolution providing for the construction or reconstruction of a
sidewalk, as the case may be, shall give the owner of the abutting property not
less than 30 days nor more than 60 days after its publication, one time, in the
official city paper in which to construct or cause to be constructed or
reconstructed the sidewalk at his or her own expense. If the sidewalk is not
constructed by the property owner within the time specified, the governing body
shall cause the work to be done by contract.
(K.S.A. 12-1805)
§ 13-107 RIGHT OF ABUTTING OWNER.
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the owner of
property abutting on a street, who desires to construct or reconstruct a
sidewalk at his or her own expense and in accordance with official plans and
specifications for the purpose and which meet such other requirements as would
have to be met if the sidewalk were constructed or reconstructed by the city,
to construct or reconstruct a sidewalk without any petition or a condemning
resolution by the governing body.
   (b)   If such property owner desires the sidewalk to be constructed and
reconstructed by the city and an assessment levied as provided by law in other
cases, he or she shall file a request with the governing body. The governing
body, in its discretion, may provide for the construction or reconstruction of
the sidewalk requested in the same manner as in other cases where citizens or
taxpayers petition the governing body.
(K.S.A. 12-1806)
§ 13-108 REPAIRS BY OWNER OR CITY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of the abutting property to keep the
sidewalk in repair, but the city may, after giving five days’ notice to the
owner or his or her agent, if known, of the necessity for making repairs, or
without notice if the lot or piece of land is unoccupied, make all necessary
repairs at any time. The same shall be done and the cost thereof assessed
against the lot or piece of land abutting on the sidewalk so repaired as may be
provided by law.
(K.S.A. 12-1808)
§ 13-109 PERFORMANCE, STATUTORY BOND.
   In any case where the reconstruction or construction of a sidewalk is
required to be done by contract as provided in §
13-106, the governing body may require the contractor to give a bond for the
faithful performance of the contract and for the construction of the sidewalk
in accordance with the plans and specifications, ordinances of the city or laws
of the state, and for all contracts exceeding $1,000 entered into by the city
for any such purpose, a statutory lien bond required by K.S.A. 60-1111 shall be
furnished.
§ 13-110 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or construct any step or other
obstruction, whether temporary or permanent, or to store, leave or allow to be
left any implements, tools, merchandise, goods, containers, benches, display or
show cases, on any sidewalks or other public ways in the city or to obstruct
the same longer than is necessary for loading or unloading any such article or
object.
§ 13-111 SAME; EXCEPTION.
   The governing body may authorize the granting of temporary permits in
connection with a building or moving permit for limited times only to the owner
of property abutting on any sidewalk to use or encumber such sidewalk or public
way of the city during the construction of any building or improvement thereon.
No permit shall be issued for such purpose until plans for warning and
safeguarding the public during such use of sidewalks shall have been submitted
by the owner or his or her contractor and approved by the governing body.
§ 13-112 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED.
   Any person, firm or corporation hereinafter applying for a building permit
for any structure, including the major remodeling of any structure, shall as a
condition thereof be required to construct a sidewalk along any public street
or streets adjacent to the parcel of land associated with such building permit
in accordance with the specifications for construction of sidewalks as
hereinafter set forth in the following locations.
   (a)   Such sidewalks shall only be required along streets which have a
minimum length of 800 feet.
   (b)   Such sidewalks shall only be required on the east, the northeast or
the north side of any such street. If a street is so designed that it is
impractical to make such a determination, then such sidewalk shall only be
required at the location of any improvement having an even street number.
   (c)   Sidewalks shall only be required if less than 50% of a block has been
developed without sidewalks.
(Ord. 223, passed 4-13-1981)
ARTICLE 2: STREETS
Section
   
13-201   Excavation permit
   
13-202   Same; bond
   
13-203   Same; filed
   
13-204   Same; barricades
   
13-205   Same; unlawful acts
   
13-206   Cutting curbs; pavement
   
13-207   Altering drainage
   
13-208   Unfinished pavement
   
13-209   Using streets
   
13-210   Dangerous objects in streets
   
13-211   Petroleum products in streets
   
13-212   Discharging water on streets
   
13-213   Burning in streets
   
13-214   Throwing in streets
   
13-215   Hauling loose material
§ 13-201 EXCAVATION PERMIT.
   No person, other than authorized city employees, shall dig or excavate any
hole, ditch, trench or tunnel in or under any street, alley, sidewalk, park or
other public property or public easement through private property without first
having secured a permit for such excavation. Application shall be made to the
City Clerk.
§ 13-202 SAME; BOND.
   (a)   No permit authorized in this article shall be issued until the
applicant has given to the city a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $5,000
conditioned that the applicant will faithfully comply with all the terms and
conditions of this article, and will indemnify and hold the city harmless
against all costs, expenses, damages and injuries by persons or by the city
sustained by reason of the carelessness or negligence of the permit holder. No
bond for this purpose shall run for longer than two years without being
renewed. The bond shall remain in full force and effect as to each excavation
for two years after the same has been made or completed.
   (b)   Any utility operating under a franchise or a contractor under contract
with the city for municipal improvement shall not be required to give bond as
provided in division (a) above.
   (c)   Each bond given under this section shall be approved by the City
Attorney and filed with the City Clerk.
§ 13-203 SAME; FILED.
   If the application is approved by the city, the City Clerk shall issue a
permit upon payment of a fee of $5. Each permit issued under the provisions of
this section shall cover only one specified excavation.
§ 13-204 SAME; BARRICADES.
   Any person to whom an excavation permit is issued shall enclose all
excavations that he or she makes with sufficient barricades and danger signs at
all times, and shall maintain sufficient warning lights or flares at nighttime.
The holder of an excavation permit shall take all necessary precautions to
guard the public against all accidents from the beginning of the work to the
completion of the same.
§ 13-205 SAME; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those having authority from the
city or any officer thereof, to throw down, interfere with or remove any
barriers, barricades or lights placed in any street to guard and warn the
traveling public of any construction work thereon or adjacent thereto.
§ 13-206 CUTTING CURBS; PAVEMENT.
   (a)   No person shall cut any curb, gutter, pavement, blacktop or sidewalk,
or excavate any street, alley or other public grounds of the city, for any
purpose without first obtaining a permit authorizing the same from the City
Clerk.
   (b)   Once the work for which the excavation was made has been completed,
the city shall restore the pavement, blacktop, sidewalk or other surfacing at
the expense of the person from whom the excavation was made.
   (c)   In lieu of the city replacing pavement, it may elect to authorize
utility companies or contractors to resurface streets or sidewalks with like
materials, subject to approval of the Street Superintendent.
§ 13-207 ALTERING DRAINAGE.
   No person shall change or alter any gutter, storm sewer, drain or drainage
structure that has been constructed or is being lawfully maintained or
controlled by the city, unless such change or alteration has been authorized or
directed by the governing body.
§ 13-208 UNFINISHED PAVEMENT.
   No person shall walk upon, drive or ride over or across any pavement,
sidewalk or incomplete grading that has not been opened for traffic.
§ 13-209 USING STREETS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy any portion of any street, alley or sidewalk
for the purpose of temporarily storing building materials without first
obtaining a permit for such temporary use from the governing body.
   (b)   No person may use any portion of any sidewalk or street right-of-way
for the purpose of displaying or offering for sale wares, goods, merchandise or
other items. Nothing in this article, however, shall be construed as
prohibiting the city governing body from temporarily waiving the prohibition of
this division (b) in connection with community promotions or community-wide
celebrations when such waiver is considered to be in the best interest of the
city.
§ 13-210 DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw or cause to be placed or
thrown in or on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public grounds of the city
any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, wire or other dangerous objects that might
wound any person or animal or cut or puncture any pneumatic tire while passing
over the same.
§ 13-211 PETROLEUM PRODUCTS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit or throw
any waste oil, fuel oil, kerosene, gasoline or other products of petroleum or
any acids into or upon any street or public grounds of the city, or willfully
to permit the same to be spilled, dripped or otherwise to come into contact
with the surface of any street, alley or sidewalk within the city.
§ 13-212 DISCHARGING WATER ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to throw or
discharge water into any ditch, street, avenue or alley in the city or to cause
any water to stand or form pools or to flow in a stream thereon. This section
shall not apply to persons cleaning or flushing such streets, avenues or alleys
under the authority of the governing body, nor to members of the Fire
Department.
§ 13-213 BURNING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or cause to be made, any fire
upon any of the paved streets, alleys or street intersections within the city.
§ 13-214 THROWING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or bat any ball, stone or other hard substance
into, on or across any street or alley or at or against any building or
vehicle.
§ 13-215 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful to haul over the streets or alleys of this city any
loose material of any kind except in a vehicle so constructed or maintained as
to prevent the splashing or spilling of any of the substances therein contained
upon the streets or alleys.
ARTICLE 3: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
13-301   Definitions
   
13-302   Public officer
   
13-303   Tree size
   
13-304   Tree spacing
   
13-305   Planting distance from curbs and sidewalks
   
13-306   Planting near utility lines
   
13-307   Planting distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
13-308   Public tree care
   
13-309   Removal of dead, diseased treed from private property
   
13-310   Pruning; corner clearance
   
13-311   Cutting, trimming; persons maintaining poles, wires, cables
   
13-312   Tree topping
   
13-313   Review by City Council
   
13-314   Failure to abate
   
13-315   Penalty
§ 13-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names and all areas owned by the city or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   SHRUBS. A woody plant which is smaller than a tree, typically not exceeding
13 inches in height, and has several main stems arising at or near the ground
typically not more than three inches in diameter.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or public
rights-of-way within the city.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-302 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The City Administrator shall designate a Public Officer to be charged with
the administration and enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-303 TREE SIZE.
   (a)   Sizes.
      (1)   SMALL TREES are herein defined as those attaining a normal maximum
height of 30 feet.
      (2)   MEDIUM TREES are herein defined as those attaining a normal maximum
height of 30 feet to 45 feet.
      (3)   LARGE TREES are herein defined as those attaining a normal maximum
height of 45 feet or more.
   (b)   Examples. For illustrative purposes only, the following common trees
are defined according to size.
      (1)   Small trees are flowering crabapple, redbud, hawthorne, Bradford
pear, common apricot, paper mulberry, Amur maple, purpleleaf plum, flowering
peach, serviceberry and mimosa.
      (2)   Medium trees are red mulberry, honey locust, western soapberry,
Kentucky coffeetree, goldenrain, Japanese pagoda, hard maple, pistachio, Ohio
bukeye, ginkgo, black cherry, pin oak, Osage orange, sweetgum and little leaf
linden.
      (3)   Large trees are bur oak, red oak, hackberry, London plane, American
sycamore, black walnut, cottonwood, basswood, green ash, silver maple and
American linden.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-304 TREE SPACING.
   (a)   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three size
classes listed in §
13-303.
   (b)   No trees may be planted closer together than the following:
      (1)   Small trees: 30 feet;
      (2)   Medium trees: 40 feet; and
      (3)   Large trees: 50 feet.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-305 PLANTING DISTANCE FROM CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   The distance trees may be planted from curbs and curblines and
sidewalks will be in accordance with the three size classes listed in §
13-303.
   (b)   No trees may be planted closer to any curb than the following:
      (1)   Small and medium trees: four feet; and
      (2)   Large trees: six feet.
   (c)   No trees may be planted closer to the sidewalk than the following:
      (1)   Small trees: three feet;
      (2)   Medium trees: four feet; and
      (3)   Large trees: five feet.
   (d)   The Public Officer may waive the provisions of this section when he or
she deems it appropriate.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-306 PLANTING NEAR UTILITY LINES.
   No street trees, other than those species defined as small trees in §
13-303, may be planted under or within 15 feet of any overhead utility wire or
cable. No trees shall be planted within three linear feet of any underground
water line, sewer line or other utility.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-307 PLANTING DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted within 20 feet of any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curb lines. No street tree
shall be planted within ten feet of any fireplug.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-308 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   Provisions relating to public tree care for trees in the city shall be as
follows.
   (a)   The city shall have the right to plant, trim, spray, preserve and
remove trees, plants and shrubs within the public rights-of-ways of all
streets, alleys, avenues, lanes and public grounds as may be necessary to
ensure safety or to preserve the symmetry and beauty of public ground.
   (b)   The owner of abutting property shall be responsible, at his or her
expense, to prune, maintain and remove trees or woody plants lying within the
public right-of-way of any street or alley.
   (c)   The city may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or woody
plant or any part thereof situated within the public right-of-way of streets,
alleys or avenues which is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason of its
nature, is injurious to public utilities or other public improvements or is
infected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest or constitutes a
traffic hazard.
   (d)   The Public Officer will notify in writing the owners of property
abutting such trees or woody plants. Pruning or removal shall be done by the
abutting owners at their own expense within 30 days after the date of service
of such notice, unless extended by the Public Officer. In the event of failure
of the abutting owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the
authority to prune or remove such trees and the cost of such work shall be
assessed and charged against the abutting property as a special assessment, to
be certified by the City Clerk at the time of certifying other city taxes to
the County Clerk, to be extended on the tax roll of the county against the
abutting lot or parcel of ground.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-309 REMOVAL OF DEAD, DISEASED TREED FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   When a laboratory test or other supporting evidence is presented to
the city that trees or tree materials or shrubs located upon private property
within the city are infected or infested with or harbours any tree or plant
disease or insect pest or larvae the uncontrolled presence of which may
constitute a hazard to or result in the damage or destruction of other trees or
shrubs in the city, describing the same and where located, the Public Officer
shall [or may] issue a notice in the manner set out in division (b) below.
   (b)   The Public Officer shall give written notice requiring the owner or
agent of the owner of the premises to treat or prune or remove any such
designated tree, tree material or shrub within a time specified in such notice.
   (c)   Treatment or removal shall be done by the owners at their own expense
within 30 days after the date of service of notice, unless extended by the
Public Officer.
   (d)   In the event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the
city shall have the authority to remove dead or diseased trees and assess the
cost of such work against the abutting property as a special assessment, to be
certified by the City Clerk at the time of certifying other city taxes to the
County Clerk, and extended upon the tax roll of the county against the abutting
lot or parcel of ground.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-310 PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (a)   Every owner of any tree or woody plant overhanging any street, alley
or public right-of-way within the city shall trim or prune the branches so that
such branches:
      (1)   Shall not obstruct the light from any nearby street lamp so that
there shall be uniform disbursement of downward light to the street;
      (2)   Shall not obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that
there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of any sidewalk or
driveway; and
      (3)   Are so trimmed or pruned that they create a clear space of 12 feet
over the curb and of 14 feet above the crown of any street or alley.
   (b)   The Public Officer shall give written notice requiring the owner or
agent of the owner of the premises abutting such trees or woody plants as
follows.
      (1)   Trimming or pruning shall be done by the abutting owners at their
own expense within 30 days after the date of service of such notice, unless
extended by the Public Officer.
      (2)   In the event of failure of the abutting owners to comply with such
provisions, the city shall have the authority to trim such trees and the cost
of such work shall be assessed and charged against the abutting property as a
special assessment, to be certified by the City Clerk at the time of certifying
other city taxes to the County Clerk, to be extended on the tax roll of the
county against the abutting lot or parcel of ground.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-311 CUTTING, TRIMMING; PERSONS MAINTAINING POLES, WIRES, CABLES.
   To prevent the destruction of shade and ornamental street trees, as defined
in §
13-301, all persons maintaining wires, cables or poles in the city, their
agents, servants and employees, are hereby prohibited from cutting or trimming
trees except under the direction of the Public Officer.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-312 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person to top any street
tree, park tree or other tree on public property. TOPPING is defined as the
severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter
within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or
certain trees under utility wires, cables or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this article at the
determination of the Public Officer.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-313 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   Any owner shall have ten business days from the receipt of an order as
outlined above to request a hearing before the City Council, which shall hear
the matter and make a final decision.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-314 FAILURE TO ABATE.
   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the time
allowed may result in prosecution, and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the
city as provided in the relevant sections above.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 13-315 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in any sum not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned not to exceed
30 days, or be both so fined and imprisoned.
(Ord. 649-22, passed 8-8-2022)
ARTICLE 4: SNOW AND ICE
Section
   
13-401   Snow and ice to be removed
   
13-402   Same: exception; alternate remedy
   
13-403   Same; penalty
   
13-404   Removal may be made by city
   
13-405   Costs on tax rolls
§ 13-401 SNOW AND ICE TO BE REMOVED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or the occupant of any lots
abutting upon any sidewalks to fail to cause to be removed from such sidewalks
all snow and ice within 12 hours from the time that the snow fall or ice storm
ceases. If the snow falls or ice accumulates upon the sidewalks in the
nighttime, removal of same must be made within 12 hours after sunrise on the
following day.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place snow removed from private
property upon any public street, alley or sidewalk.
§ 13-402 SAME: EXCEPTION; ALTERNATE REMEDY.
   Where there shall be ice or compacted snow on any such sidewalk of such a
character as to make it practically impossible to remove the same, the
sprinkling of ashes, sand or other noncorrosive chemicals on the accumulation
of ice or snow in such a manner as to make such sidewalk reasonably safe for
pedestrian travel shall be deemed a sufficient compliance with the provisions
of this article until the ice or snow can be removed.
§ 13-403 SAME; PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
13-401 shall, upon conviction, be fined $25.
§ 13-404 REMOVAL MAY BE MADE BY CITY.
   If any owner or occupant of any lot or lots shall refuse or neglect to clean
or remove from the sidewalk abutting the lot or lots all snow and ice within
the time specified, the city may cause such snow and ice to be removed from
sidewalks and the cost thereof shall be assessed against such abutting lot or
lots, and the City Clerk shall certify the same to the County Clerk for
collection as provided by law.
§ 13-405 COSTS ON TAX ROLLS.
   The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes to the
County Clerk, certify the unpaid costs for removal of snow or ice performed
under the authority of §
13-404, and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax roll of the
county against the lot or parcel of ground. The cost of such work shall be paid
from the General Fund or other proper fund of the city, and such fund shall be
reimbursed when payments therefor are received or when such assessments are
collected and received by the city.
 
ARTICLE 5: USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY OR EASEMENTS BY UTILITIES OR SERVICE PROVIDERS
Section
   
13-501   Policy; application
   
13-502   Procedures generally
   
13-503   Permit fees
   
13-504   Public safety and traffic control
   
13-505   Existing utilities
   
13-506   Insurance requirements
   
13-507   Operations
   
13-508   Construction requirements
   
13-509   No separate pole system; attachment to poles
   
13-510   Cleanup and restoration
   
13-511   Final inspection and acceptance of project
   
13-512   Warranty period
   
13-513   Penalties
   
13-514   Substitute provisions
 
   
Appendix A: Right-of-Way Permit Application
   
Appendix B: Utility and Infrastructure Repairs Fees
Cross-reference:
   Utilities, see
Ch. XV
§ 13-501 POLICY; APPLICATION.
   (a)   The purpose of this policy is to outline the expectations and
guidelines for construction or work within rights-of-way and/or easements
within the city.
   (b)   This policy applies to all utility owners, providers, contractors and
subcontractors (“utility”) performing new construction, replacement and repair
of existing infrastructure located along, under and across any public right-of-
way (ROW) controlled by the city. This policy also applies to those already
under a franchise agreement.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-502 PROCEDURES GENERALLY.
   (a)   This policy applies to all city ROW and easements, both referred to in
this document under the term “right-of-way” or “ROW.”
   (b)   The utility owner assumes all responsibility for the work occurring
under the scope of his, her or its project plans. Failure of the utility and
its contractors and subcontractors is the ultimate responsibility of the
utility owner.
   (c)   The utility is required to submit stamped engineered plans by a
professional engineer prior to his, her or its permit application for review by
the city. The city reserves the right to require the utility to provide
accurate location information for all utilities prior to plan approval in areas
where there are concerns or issues.
      (1)   If work commences prior to permit approval, permit fees will be
double and subject to penalties outlined in §
13-513.
      (2)   If work involves the ROW along the K-15 corridor, KDOT Form 304, or
similar form, must be included with the application.
      (3)   If work involves crossing the railroad or use of the railroad ROW
within or adjacent to the city limits, appropriate license agreements or
permits must be submitted with the application.
      (4)   If work involves attaching to existing poles, the utility shall
provide documentation from the pole owner approving his, her or its
installation.
   (d)   If the city determines at any time that the work being performed is
not in accordance with this policy and permit application, the utility (upon
being notified by the city) shall immediately stop any construction and correct
the work.
   (e)   If installation of the utility has not started within one year from
the date of the approved permit, the permit will become void. Thereafter, the
utility will be required to submit updated plans, another permit and permit fee
for the installation of the utility. The utility may request an extension of
time. However, this request must be within the one-year permit period and only
one extension will be granted without work commencing.
   (f)   The utility shall protect all existing utility installations, public
facilities and private property from damage. The utility is financially
responsible for all damages to public and private property and is subject to
paying for any repairs performed by existing utility operators. The city fee
schedule is in
Appx. B.
   (g)   The city encourages the conservation of right-of-way by sharing of
space by all utilities. Any utility sharing facilities with another entity is
required to obtain a separate permit for their installation.
   (h)   The city cannot grant private utility companies permission to use ROW
if it was secured by a grant of easement or road record action. It is the
responsibility of private utility companies to obtain authorization from the
respective property owners for their utility. However, the city will require a
permit for any private utility that crosses the public ROW under its
jurisdiction.
   (i)   In the event that the city deems it necessary or proper to make any
alterations or improvements along or upon the ROW, the utility agrees that upon
notice being served, the utility will, within a reasonable time as determined
by the city, adjust or protect the facilities to clear the proposed work as
requested by the city. If the facilities are located within the existing ROW,
the required adjustments shall be made without expense to the city.
   (j)   The utility’s use of the right-of-way shall in all matters be subject
and subordinate to the city’s use of the right-of-way for any public purpose
and to the reasonable public health, safety and welfare requirements and
regulations of the city.
      (1)   The utility shall coordinate with the city the placement of its
facilities that may adversely affect a public improvement or violate public
health, safety and welfare requirements and regulations.
      (2)   Where placement is not otherwise regulated, facilities shall be
placed with adequate clearance from such public improvement so as not to impact
or be impacted by such public improvement or the maintenance, repair or
operation of such public improvement.
   (k)   The utility, its successors and assigns shall at all times indemnify
and hold the city and its officers, governing body and employees harmless
against any and all claims, lawsuits, judgments, costs, liens, losses,
expenses, fees, including attorney’s fees and costs of defense, proceedings,
actions, demands, causes of action, liability and suits of any kind or nature,
including, but not limited to, personal or bodily injury, death, property
damage or other harm caused by the negligence of the utility, his, her or its
successors and assigns, or any agent, officer, director, representative,
employee, affiliate of the utility or his, her or its successors and assigns in
connection with the planning and execution of work in the public right-of-way,
or any subcontracts and independent contractors of the utility, his, her or its
successors and assigns or their respective officers, agents, employees,
directors or representatives while installing, repairing, replacing or
maintaining facilities in the public right-of-way for which recovery of damages
is sought.
   (l)   Upon request by the petitioner, the City Council may consider
variances to this policy.
   (m)   All information submitted with a permit becomes public record of the
city.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-503 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees are established under Ord. 659-23 and established in
Appx. A, or by any subsequent ordinance or resolution changes. The permit will
not be processed until the city has received payment of the permit fee from the
utility.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-504 PUBLIC SAFETY AND TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (a)   Traffic control. The utility shall be responsible for providing all
necessary traffic-control items during construction. All traffic-control items
and usage shall be in accordance with the current edition of the “Manual on
Uniform Traffic-Control Devices” (MUTCD).
   (b)   Road closures. No road will be closed or reopened without permission
from the city. The utility will notify the city a minimum of five business days
prior to a road closure to allow for proper notification of emergency services,
school districts, postal service and the like.
   (c)   Entrances. Private entrances shall not be closed overnight, and shall
be opened for access as promptly as possible unless coordinated with the
landowner.
   (d)   Storage. The utility must store all vehicles, construction equipment,
materials, tools and debris a minimum of ten feet from the edge of the road,
alley or path. Property owner permission must be obtained if stored on private
property.
   (e)   Road repair. The utility shall maintain the highway (as defined in the
Standard Traffic Ordinance) in good condition at all times. Repair any damage
done to the highway immediately. If mud or dirt is tracked onto the road
surface, it shall be removed immediately to ensure the highway is safe for the
traveling public.
   (f)   Nonconformance. If at any time the city finds the work zone is not in
accordance with the approved traffic-control plan, the utility shall
immediately take the necessary steps to correct any traffic safety concerns.
Failure to comply may result in suspension of work and revocation of the
permit.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-505 EXISTING UTILITIES.
   (a)   Prior to commencing construction, the utility shall notify Kansas One
Call and obtain utility field locates (including those utilities that do not
participate in Kansas One Call) in the anticipated work area before excavation.
   (b)   Repair of existing utilities is subject to the same stipulations of
this policy, except for the depth requirements established herein.
   (c)   Commencing work prior to existing utilities being located is subject
to penalties outlined in §
13-513.
   (d)   If requested by the city, in order to accomplish construction and
maintenance activities directly related to improvements for the health, safety
and welfare of the public, the utility shall promptly remove its facilities
from the right-of-way or relocate or adjust its facilities within the right-of-
way at no cost to the city. Any damages suffered by the city or its contractors
as a result of the utility’s failure to timely relocate or adjust its
facilities shall be borne by the utility.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-506 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Before beginning any work, the utility performing the work within the ROW
must provide a proof of insurance. A certificate of liability insurance must be
provided by the utility. The following are the minimum insurance requirements
to work within the ROW:
   (a)   General liability insurance for a combined single-limit minimum amount
of $1,000,000 for bodily injury and property damage; and
   (b)   Automobile liability insurance of a combined single-limit minimum
amount of $1,000,000 for bodily and property damage that covers owned, hired
and non-owned vehicles.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-507 OPERATIONS.
   (a)   Emergency work. Emergency repair of utilities located within the ROW
is permissible without first obtaining a permit. An EMERGENCY exists which
interrupts critical services and/or is dangerous to the life, safety or welfare
of the public. The utility shall take all reasonable safety measures. Temporary
traffic-control measures shall be consistent with the current MUTCD. The
utility will advise the city of the location as soon as possible but no later
than 24 hours after discovering the emergency. All work will be performed in
accordance with these requirements and procedures.
   (b)   Weather. Except in emergencies, the utility shall not work in weather
conditions which, in the opinion of city, may damage city property or cause a
hazard to the public.
   (c)   Damage to road. Damage to signs, pavement or other public facilities
shall be immediately reported to the city and repaired by the utility within
ten business days. If determined by the city to be a traffic hazard, the damage
shall be immediately repaired by the utility.
   (d)   Open excavations. Open excavations shall be fenced when left
unattended. Excavation within three feet from a highway shall be cribbed or
sheeted as necessary to prevent damage to the road.
   (e)   Protection of vegetation. The permit herein granted does not confer
upon the utility the right to cut, remove, damage or destroy trees or shrubbery
within the legal limits of the ROW or relieve the utility from obtaining any
consent otherwise required from owners of adjacent property. Trees, shrubs,
bushes, vines or ground cover on the ROW shall not be sprayed, trimmed, cut
down, rooted up, removed or mutilated in any manner without prior written
approval of the city.
   (f)   Ditches. All ditches and culverts shall remain open and operative
during and upon completion of the work.
   (g)   Tracked equipment. No tracked equipment shall be operated on any road
surface without prior city consent.
   (h)   Vacation of utilities. Any utility choosing to vacate the use of
utilities installed in the city shall notify the city of such. After
notification, the city has the right to assign the infrastructure to another
party, if deemed necessary.
   (i)   Transfer of operations. Any utility operating in the city that
transfers ownership of infrastructure to another entity will notify the city.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-508 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   General. All utilities (above or below ground) shall be placed in the
ROW as directed or approved in advance by the city.
   (b)   Vaults and splicing facilities. Vaults shall not block corridors for
future utility installations. Location of splice vaults must be shown on
stamped engineering plans and specifically approved on site by the city.
   (c)   Aboveground installations. Utility poles are the only aboveground
facility that will be considered. Poles shall be located near the ROW line or
property line within an easement. The location of any pole is preferred within
three feet or less of the ROW or property line. No pole shall be placed within
ten feet from the edge of a road surface. Guys, anchors and other aboveground
items shall be located to minimize interference with road, alley or path
maintenance operations. Overhead lines within the city shall provide a minimum
clearance of 18 feet or as required by the National Electrical Safety Code,
whichever is greater. Aboveground utilities crossing the ROW shall be
perpendicular to the highway alignment to the extent feasible and practical.
   (d)   Underground installations. No utility will be permitted under the
highway except for crossings. All underground utility installations and
appurtenances shall be located to minimize interference with maintenance
operation of the city and other utilities in the ROW.
   (e)   Underground public utilities along/parallel to ROW. Underground public
utilities placed along/parallel to the ROW shall have a minimum ground cover of
18 inches with the exception of fiber optic. Fiber optic utilities shall be
installed with a minimum ground cover of 24 inches. A maximum depth for all
utilities shall be no more than 36 inches, unless otherwise approved by the
city.
   (f)   Underground public utilities crossing/perpendicular to ROW. All
underground public utilities crossing/perpendicular to the ROW shall have a
minimum cover of 24 inches below the deepest ditch grade line. This elevation
shall be carried all of the way through the ROW.
   (g)   Consistent depth. All underground utilities shall be constructed to a
generally consistent depth.
   (h)   Traffic type rating. All underground facilities shall have a traffic
type rating not less than American National Standards Institute Tier 22.
   (i)   Private utilities. Private utilities, if allowed, may require
additional depth of cover from the previously stated depths as directed by the
city.
   (j)   Crossing under highways. Water lines and sanitary sewer lines that
cross under a highway will require a casing to be extended under the road
surface a minimum of six feet beyond the edge of the highway.
   (k)   Tracer wires with non-metalics. All buried non-metallic pipes, cables
or casings are required to utilize a tracer wire.
   (l)   Trenches. Trenches shall be backfilled in lifts not to exceed 18
inches of loose material and compacted to the satisfaction of the city unless
backfilled with flowable fill. All backfilling will be subject to observation
by a city representative while in progress.
   (m)   Backfilling. The utility shall be responsible for repairing any
settlement resulting from this work during warranty period (see below). Under
normal conditions, material removed from the trench may be used for
backfilling. Materials containing frozen soil, sod, rock, debris or organic
material shall not be used. The top six inches must be clean top soil.
   (n)   Shoring trenches. Trenches must be shored where necessary to protect
the travel way, shoulders and slopes.
   (o)   Installation by trenching or knifing. Utilities installed by trenching
or knifing will not be allowed across all roads, driveways, or manicured
properties.
   (p)   Bridge attachments. Bridge attachments may be allowed. All attachments
greater than two inches will require plans prepared by a licensed professional
engineer. All attachment methods and locations are subject to the city’s prior
written approval.
   (q)   Boring. Installation of underground lines across all roads (paved,
gravel and earth), entrances/ driveways and manicured properties shall be by
directional boring or jacking only. The edge of a bore pit shall be located at
least four feet from the edge of the road or shoulder, whichever is greater.
   (r)   Hole diameter. The hole diameter resulting from bored or tunneled
installations shall not exceed the outside diameter of the utility pipe, cable
or casing by more than one and one-half inches on pipes with an inside diameter
of 12 inches or less or two inches on pipes with an inside diameter greater
than 12 inches.
   (s)   Road repair/replacement. All roads will be restored to the direction
of the city. All paving/re-paving and subgrade work will be subject to
inspection by the city. A minimum of one working day (24 hours’) notification
to the city is required prior to scheduled work.
   (t)   Tracer wires. Underground utilities shall have a means to identify
their location underground. Tracer wires should be installed to locate
utilities for excavation purposes. All tracer wires shall be installed and
accessed through handholes. Aboveground locate posts are not to be installed
within city limits.
   (u)   Leaving lines on the ground. No utility line shall be left on top of
the ground for more than ten days after repair or initial connection. Lines
shall be appropriately installed and secured to meet the guidelines of the
city. Any exception to this should be approved in writing from the city.
   (v)   Potholing. Anytime a utility is being installed via boring, crossings
of existing utilities should use potholing to ensure the existing utility is
not damaged.
   (w)   Construction time. Work shall only take place Monday through Friday
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. The only exception to this is
emergency repairs.
   (x)   Excess cable. All excess cable aboveground shall be stored in a
figure-eight and lashed to its appropriate messenger per best industry
practices. No excess cable shall be coiled and stored aboveground.
   (y)   Third parties. The city reserves the right to hire a third party to
observe installation if deemed necessary. The city has the right to bill that
cost to the utility.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-509 NO SEPARATE POLE SYSTEM; ATTACHMENT TO POLES.
   The utility shall not erect a separate system of poles for its system, but,
to the extent possible, shall use existing poles in the city. Additional poles
or wireholding structures may be erected if necessary for the proper operation
of the cable system, but only after approval has been obtained from the city.
All attachments of the utility’s facilities to poles and other property of the
city shall be done only in accordance with and subject to a separate written
agreement between the city and the utility. No such attachments shall be made
before such agreement is entered into by the city and the utility.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-510 CLEANUP AND RESTORATION.
   (a)   Prior to the final inspection, the ROW shall be restored to a
condition equal to the existing condition before the commencement of the
described work. Ensure all areas are properly backfilled, all ditches and
slopes are restored to the original configuration and elevations and all
existing ROW profiles are properly re-established. All ruts shall be filled and
smoothed to match the existing surface.
   (b)   The contractor shall sweep off excessive dirt or material from the
highway, alley or path surface.
   (c)   All disturbed areas shall be smoothed, seeded/sodded and mulched. For
disturbed areas adjacent to residences, the variety of seed or sod used shall
match existing. Areas shall be maintained for one year to the city’s
satisfaction.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-511 FINAL INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE OF PROJECT.
   To receive final acceptance of the work authorized by a right-of-way permit,
completion of the work must be verified by a final inspection. The utility must
schedule a final inspection, prior to de-mobilization, with city
representatives. If the work or restoration is found to be defective or
insufficient, the utility shall complete such work and call for another
inspection. The utility (at the utility’s expense) may be required to pothole
buried lines to verify proper installation.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-512 WARRANTY PERIOD.
   (a)   The utility shall warranty/maintain his, her or its installed
facilities to the city’s satisfaction for an indefinite period upon completion
of the work. In the event the ROW is not in an acceptable condition or proposes
a concern to public safety at any time during the warranty period, the city
will contact the utility to resolve the matter and determine an appropriate
time line.
   (b)   Warranty repairs occurring within the driving surface of the road
shall be addressed immediately. With failure to respond, or if contact cannot
be established with the utility, the city will perform the repair(s) and submit
an invoice for such repair to the utility.
   (c)   All other warranty work shall be completed by the utility within 30
days of said notification. Failure of the utility to complete said work will
allow the city to complete the repair(s) and submit an invoice for the repair
to the utility.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-513 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Any person or entity violating any provision of this article is guilty
of a Class C public offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or
both such fine and imprisonment. Every day that this article is violated shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   The violation of any provision of this article is hereby deemed to be
grounds for revocation of the permit issued.
   (c)   The city shall have the authority to maintain civil suits or actions
in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this article. In addition to any other remedies, the city may
maintain an injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent violation of this article.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 13-514 SUBSTITUTE PROVISIONS.
   The governing body is hereby authorized to adopt by resolution a schedule
for any new permit fees as identified in
Appx. A and any new fees schedules as identified in
Appx. B, which new fees or schedules would go into effect upon passage of such
resolution.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
APPENDIX A: RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT APPLICATION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ba42bef4326179ef73407033b6325ed05a0344b9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1827.jpg]
 
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
APPENDIX B: UTILITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE REPAIRS FEES.
North Newton Fees for Utility or Infrastructure Repairs
   (a)   A minimum of two hours will be charged for all items on this list.
Item Hourly Rate
Item                          Hourly Rate
Air compressor and jackhammer $75
Backhoe                       $100
Bobcat                        $80
Chainsaw                      $25
Concrete saw                  $50
Dump truck                    $100
Each staff person             $100
Other equipment not listed    Current FEMA schedule of equipment rates
Pickup truck                  $50
 
   (b)   All supplies for repairs will be charged at current supplier cost plus
25%.
(Ord. 659-23, passed 8-14-2023)
ARTICLE 6: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
13-601   Excavation and pavement cutting policies
   
13-602   Driveway approach standards
§ 13-601 EXCAVATION AND PAVEMENT CUTTING POLICIES.
   (a)   Permit required for excavations. No person, firm or corporation, other
than authorized city employees, shall dig or excavate any hole, ditch, trench
or tunnel in or under any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park or other public
property or any public easement through private property without first having
taken out a permit and paid the fee therefor.
   (b)   City Superintendent to supervise work; failure to comply. All work
done under permits issued under the provisions of this section shall be done
under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Superintendent. If any
permit holder shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply with the provisions of
this section, or any reasonable orders or directions of the City Superintendent
in reference thereto, the City Clerk may refuse further permits to such party.
   (c)   Safety measures. Any person, firm or corporation to whom any permit is
issued, as provided in this section, shall enclose all excavations which they
make in the public streets, avenues or alleys with sufficient barriers,
barricades and danger signs at all times, and shall maintain sufficient amber
flashing nightlights at nighttime, and shall take all necessary precautions to
guard the public against all accidents from the beginning of the work to the
completion of the same. In making the excavation contemplated by this section,
such permit holder shall in so doing be deemed to have agreed to hold the city
harmless from any claim for damages resulting from such work, and such persons,
firm or corporation shall be liable to the city for the same.
   (d)   Repair of pavement, curb, gutters and sidewalks, backfills. All costs
and expenses for pavement, curb and gutters and sidewalk cuts and excavations
shall be determined by private contract between the permit holder and/or the
property owner. All backfilling of excavations and repair or replacement of
pavement, curb and gutters and sidewalks permitted under this section shall be
the responsibility of the permit holder and/or the property owner and shall be
done under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Superintendent.
   (e)   Public utilities. In the construction of improvements by public
utility companies involving large backfill and paving, curb and gutter and
sidewalk repair operations, the City Administrator may permit such public
utility company to backfill and repair such paving, curb and gutter and
sidewalks or to contract therefor, and such work shall be done in compliance
with the specifications of the City Superintendent.
   (f)   Excavation within four feet of existing improvement. Any excavation in
any street, alley, easement or parking area which is less than four feet from
any existing pavement, curb and gutter or sidewalk shall be backfilled with the
excavated materials, dampened and thoroughly tamped in six-inch layers until
its compaction is equal to one 100% of that of the undisturbed soil adjacent,
or it shall be backfilled with sand, which shall be flushed into place with
water to within six inches of the surface, and the rest of the backfill shall
be made of excavated material securely tamped and left flush with the surface.
In a sodded area, the sod shall be carefully removed, then reset as the work is
completed.
   (g)   Extra excavation of pavement beyond edges of dirt foundations. The
pavement portion of all street pavement cuts shall be excavated for a minimum
distance of one foot beyond the edges of the dirt excavation, except that when
one side of the pavement cut touches a gutter, the gutter pavement shall not be
excavated. Such excavation of pavement shall be done by use of a pavement saw
and only after the dirt excavation has been backfilled. The dimensions of a
pavement cut as given on the permit shall include the extra excavation of
pavement beyond the edges of the dirt excavation. All material and workmanship
shall conform with specifications of the City Superintendent.
   (h)   Excavation of unimproved street or alley. All excavations in any used
or traveled portion of any unimproved street or alley, except as provided in
division (g) above, may be backfilled with the excavated material; provided,
that it shall be compacted by mechanical tamper in six-inch layers and all
surplus material shall be trimmed and removed from the line of the ditch.
   (i)   Duty of persons making excavation. It shall be the duty of any person
making an excavation in any of the unimproved streets, alleys or other public
grounds of the city to backfill and maintain all trenches or ditches in a safe
condition for the traveling public until the excavated material has reached
final settlement.
   (j)   Excavation acceptance by city. Upon completion of work and before any
refill shall be done in any sidewalk, curb, gutter or pavement, the permit
holder shall notify the City Superintendent that such excavation is ready for
refill and surface repair.
   (k)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum
not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense, and each and every day
that any of the terms, conditions or provisions of this section are not
complied with shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 247, passed 11-8-1982)
§ 13-602 DRIVEWAY APPROACH STANDARDS.
   (a)   Title; purpose. This section shall be known as and may be referred to
as the “Driveway Approach Standards of the City of North Newton.” The purpose
of this policy is to provide for the construction of driveways in uniform
manner throughout the city
   (b)   Driveway defined. The term DRIVEWAY as used herein shall mean any
driveway entering any street from private property.
   (c)   Curb cuts for driveways; permit required. Any person, firm or
corporation desiring to cut or remove any curb or desiring to construct a
driveway entrance from any street to any private premises or lots shall first
make application for and receive a permit therefor. Such application shall be
in writing and be made upon a form as supplied at the Office of the City Clerk.
The permit fee payment will be made at time of application.
   (d)   Plans and specifications for driveways and curb cuts. All driveway
construction and curb cuts will be done in accordance with such plans and
specifications as adopted by the governing body. All adopted plans and
specifications will be on file and available at City Hall during normal
business hours. Curb cut specifications are not applicable to layback curbs.
   (e)   Inspection by City Inspector. All work done under said permits issued
in compliance with this section shall be inspected and approved by the City
Inspector.
   (f)   Time limit for construction; regulations. It shall be the duty of any
person, firm or corporation having a permit for the cutting or removal of any
curb, when it is desired to construct any driveway entrance to any private
premises or lots, to construct or reconstruct any entrance in accordance with
the plans and specifications adopted by the governing body therefor within six
months after the date of issuance of such permit. No entrance shall block or
impede the free flow of water along the gutter or drainage ditch and no
entrance shall be constructed above the grade level or drainage course;
provided, that any driveway entrance hereafter constructed that abuts upon a
drainage ditch or an unimproved street shall have a culvert pipe installed of
such size and design as shall be determined by the City Superintendent, the
cost and installation of such culvert to be at the owner’s expense.
Furthermore, driveways shall not be constructed over access points to utilities
that are located in easements.
   (g)   Violations and penalties. Any person, firm or corporation violating
any of the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
in any sum not less than $10 nor more than $100 or be imprisoned not to exceed
30 days, or be both so fined and imprisoned for each offense. Each day during
which any violation of any provision of this section is committed, continued or
permitted shall constitute a separate offense.
   (h)   Exceptions. Nothing in this policy shall be construed as requiring the
installation of driveways when there is a design constraint or impediment which
would render such installation impractical, the determination of which shall be
made by the governing body. Any and all exceptions to this policy must be
approved by the governing body.
(Ord. 217, passed 2-9-1981)
CHAPTER XIV: TRAFFIC
   Article
      
1.   STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
      
2.   LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
3.   IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
      
4.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
ARTICLE 1: STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
Section
   
14-101   Incorporating Standard Traffic Ordinance
   
14-102   Same; traffic infractions and traffic offenses
   
14-103   Penalty for scheduled fines
§ 14-101 INCORPORATING STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, for the purpose of regulating
traffic within the corporate limits of the City of North Newton, Kansas, that
certain standard traffic ordinance known as the “Standard Traffic Ordinance for
Kansas Cities,” Fifty-Second Edition, Published in 2025, prepared and published
in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas. One copy
of said Standard Traffic Ordinance shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
Adopted by Ordinance No. 670-25,” and to which shall be attached a copy of this
ordinance, and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available
to the public at all reasonable hours. The Police Department, Municipal Judge
and all administrative departments of the city charged with enforcement of the
ordinance shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such number of official
copies of such Standard Traffic Ordinance similarly marked as may be deemed
expedient.
(Ord. 670-25, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 14-102 SAME; TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS AND TRAFFIC OFFENSES.
   (a)   An ordinance traffic infraction is a violation of any section of this
chapter that prescribes or requires the same behavior as that prescribed or
required by a statutory provision that is classified as a traffic infraction in
K.S.A. 8-2118.
   (b)   All traffic violations which are included within this chapter, and
which are not ordinance traffic infractions as defined in division (a) above,
shall be considered traffic offenses.
(Ord. 670-25, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 14-103 PENALTY FOR SCHEDULED FINES.
   The fine for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or any other
traffic offense for which the Municipal Judge establishes a fine in a fine
schedule shall not be less than $45 nor more than $500, including speeding
violations. A person tried and convicted for violation of an ordinance traffic
infraction or other traffic offense for which a fine has been established in a
schedule of fines shall pay a fine fixed by the Court not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 670-25, passed 8-11-2025)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
14-201   Traffic-control devices and markings
   
14-202   Traffic regulations on private property
   
14-203   Careless driving
   
14-204   Special speed limits
   
14-205   Parking requirements
   
14-206   Prohibited parking
   
14-207   Truck traffic prohibited
   
14-208   One-way streets
   
14-209   Through streets
   
14-210   Main trafficways
   
14-211   Trafficway connections
§ 14-201 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS.
   (a)   The standard traffic ordinance, as adopted, is hereby modified by
adding thereto the following.
   (b)   (1)   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and fix the
location of such traffic-control devices as may be deemed necessary to guide
and warn traffic under the provisions of this chapter, other traffic ordinances
and the state laws. The city shall place and maintain such traffic-control
signs, signals and devices when and as may be required by the authority of the
governing body to make effective the provisions of this chapter and other
ordinances for the regulation of traffic.
      (2)   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to this section
shall be marked and labeled on a map of the city for the purpose of displaying
all such traffic-control devices and shall be filed with the City Clerk to be
open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours of
business.
§ 14-202 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Whenever a person in possession or control of any private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular traffic by permission of the owner shall
cause to be posted at each entrance thereto a permanently lettered, clearly
legible sign with the following legend: “TRAFFIC REGULATIONS OF THE CITY OF
NORTH NEWTON ENFORCED ON THIS PROPERTY. SPEED LIMIT AS POSTED,” then such
private property shall thereafter be deemed to be under the traffic regulations
of the city as provided by law.
(Ord. 349, passed 3-11-1991)
§ 14-203 CARELESS DRIVING.
   (a)   Careless driving unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person to
drive or operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or
highways of the city in a careless or heedless manner or in an inattentive
manner or without due caution and circumspection.
   (b)   Penalty. Careless driving shall be considered a non-moving traffic
violation with a penalty of a minimum of $50 and a maximum penalty of $500.
(Ord. 540-10, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 14-204 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS.
   (a)   (1)   The governing body, having determined upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that the speed limits permitted under
state law and Standard Traffic Ordinance § 33 are greater than is reasonable or
safe under the conditions found to exist upon the following streets, hereby
determines and declares that the reasonable and safe speed limit on said
streets is 20 mph:
         (A)   Regal Crescent at the eastern point where it meets with West
27th Street to its south intersection with 24th Street;
         (B)   West 27th Street from its east intersection with Highway K-15 to
its west intersection with Bluestem Street;
         (C)   Bluestem Street from its east intersection with West 27th Street
to its west intersection with Anderson Road;
         (D)   All city streets north of East 24th Street and east of Highway
K-15;
         (E)   Goldenrod Road from its north intersection with Bluestem Street
south to its intersection with Goldenrod Court; and
         (F)   All of Goldenrod Court.
      (2)   Said speed limit upon said streets shall be effective when
appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected upon said streets.
      (3)   The fine for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or any
other traffic offense for which the Municipal Judge establishes a fine in a
fine schedule shall not be less than $10 nor more than $500. A person tried and
convicted for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or other traffic
offense for which a fine has been established in a schedule of fines shall pay
a fine fixed by the Court not to exceed $500. Persons in violation of all other
sections of this article shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500 or
imprisonment of not more than 10 days.
   (b)   (1)   The governing body, having determined upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that the speed limit permitted under
state law is greater than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to
exist within Lakewood Circle, North Newton, Kansas, hereby determines and
declares that the reasonable and safe speed limit for Lakewood Circle is 20
mph. Said 20 mph speed limit for Lakewood Circle shall be effective when
appropriate signs giving reasonable notice thereof are erected.
      (2)   The fine for a violation of this division (b) shall be considered a
traffic infraction, which fine shall be set by the Municipal Judge.
   (c)   (1)   The governing body, having determined upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that the speed limit permitted under
state law is greater than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to
exist upon the below-listed streets and courts located in the Campus Woods
Addition to the City of North Newton, Kansas, hereby determines and declares
that the reasonable and safe speed limit for said streets and courts is 20 mph.
Said 20 mph speed limit shall be effective when appropriate signs giving
reasonable notice thereof are erected.
      (2)   A traffic engineering study and speed limit control review have
been performed concerning the speed limit for the following streets and courts
in the Campus Woods Addition, North Newton, Kansas: Sunview Drive, Sunview
Court, Westview Lane, Woodside Drive, Woodside Court, Lakewood Drive, Witmarsum
West, Witmarsum Drive, Old Colony Court and Campus Court.
      (3)   The fine for a violation of this division (c) shall be considered a
traffic infraction, which fine shall be set by the Municipal Judge.
   (d)   (1)   The governing body, having determined upon the basis of a
traffic investigation that the speed limit permitted under state law is greater
than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist upon East 23rd
Street, hereby determines and declares that the reasonable and safe speed limit
for East 23rd Sheet, from Main Sheet, thence east to the city limits, is 20
mph. Said 20 mph speed limit shall be effective when appropriate signs giving
reasonable notice thereof are erected.
      (2)   The fine for a violation of this division (d) shall be considered a
traffic infraction, which fine shall be set by the Municipal Judge.
(Ord. 288, passed 10-14-1985; Ord. 639-20, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 642-21,
passed 7-12-2021; Ord. 664-24, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 14-205 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   All vehicle parking within the city limits of the city shall be
parallel to the curb, with the right-hand wheels not more than 12 inches from
the right-hand curb. On a one-way street within the city, vehicles will be
permitted to park parallel to both sides of said street with the flow of
traffic, and with the left or right wheels within 12 inches of the respective
curb. Exceptions will be those streets where a curb or street marking indicates
stall or angle parking.
   (b)   All angle parking must be within the markings, with the flow of
traffic and with the right-hand front wheel not more than six inches from the
curb.
(Ord. 236, passed 3-8-1982)
§ 14-206 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (a)   (1)   The parking of any motor vehicle shall be prohibited on the
north side of 24th Street from the west side of K-15 to the west city limits.
      (2)   Any persons convicted of a violation of this division (a) shall pay
a fine as determined by the Municipal Court of the city.
   (b)   (1)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall at
any time park a vehicle upon any of the following described streets or parts of
streets:
         (A)   The south side of the curved portion of East 26th Street between
College Avenue and Goerz Avenue; and
         (B)   The west side of Goerz Avenue between East 25th Street and East
26th Street.
      (2)   The fine for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or any
other traffic offense for which the Municipal Judge establishes a fine in a
fine schedule shall not be less than $10 nor more than $500. A person tried and
convicted for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or other traffic
offense for which a fine has been established in a schedule of fines shall pay
a fine fixed by the Court not to exceed $500. Persons in violation of all other
sections of this article shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500 or
imprisonment of not more than ten days.
   (c)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall at any
time park a vehicle upon any of the following described portions of the
following streets:
      (1)   On the north side of West 24th Street from Highway K-15 west to the
first alley (approximately 227 feet, as measured from the center of K-15); and
      (2)   On the south side of West 24th Street from Highway K-15 west to the
first driveway entrance (approximately 160 feet, as measured from the center of
K-15).
   (d)   (1)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall at
any time park a vehicle upon the west side of Ivy Drive from Bluestem Street on
the south to 30th Street on the north.
      (2)   This division (d) shall take effect and be in force on April 10,
2023.
(Ord. 233, passed 9-14-1981; Ord. 288, passed 10-14-1985; Ord. 464-02, passed
11-11-2002; Ord. 645-21, passed 10-11-2021; Ord. 653-23, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 14-207 TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (a)   The operation of commercial trucks which have a licensed gross weight
of 12,000 pounds or more shall be and the same are hereby prohibited within the
city on the following described streets; provided, however, that such trucks
shall be exempted from this prohibition which are local delivery trucks and
trucks required to enter upon said streets to pick up or to deliver
merchandise, wheat or other agricultural products or household goods:
      (1)   West 27th Street from its east intersection with Highway K-15 to
its west intersection with Bluestem Street; and Bluestem Street from its east
intersection with West 27th Street to its west intersection with Anderson Road;
      (2)   West 23rd Street from Highway K-15 to the west city limits; and
      (3)   24th Street from the west side of Highway K-15 to the west city
limits and on 24th Street from the east side of Highway K-15 to the east city
limits.
   (b)   The fine for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or any other
traffic offense for which the Municipal Judge establishes a fine in a fine
schedule shall not be less than $10 nor more than $500. A person tried and
convicted for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or other traffic
offense for which a fine has been established in a schedule of fines shall pay
a fine fixed by the Court not to exceed $500. Persons in violation of all other
sections of this article shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500,
or imprisonment of not more than ten days.
(Ord. 288, passed 10-14-1985)
§ 14-208 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (a)   When properly signposted, traffic shall move only in the direction
indicated upon East 25th Street from College Avenue to Goerz Avenue and
parallel parking only shall be permitted on both sides.
   (b)   The fine for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or any other
traffic offense for which the Municipal Judge establishes a fine in a fine
schedule shall not be less than $10 nor more than $500. A person tried and
convicted for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or other traffic
offense for which a fine has been established in a schedule of fines shall pay
a fine fixed by the Court not to exceed $500. Persons in violation of all other
sections of this article shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500,
or imprisonment of not more than ten days.
(Ord. 288, passed 10-14-1985)
§ 14-209 THROUGH STREETS.
   (a)   In accordance with the provisions of K.S.A. 8-2002 and when signs are
erected giving notice thereof, drivers of vehicles shall stop or yield as the
sign directs at every intersection before entering any of the following streets
or parts of streets, which are hereby designated through streets:
      (1)   Main Street (Highway K-15) from the south city limits to the north
city limits;
      (2)   West 24th Street from the west city limits to Main Street (Highway
K-15);
      (3)   East 24th Street from Main Street (Highway K-15) to the east city
limits;
      (4)   West 23rd Street from the west city limits to Main Street (Highway
K-15); and
      (5)   East 23rd Street from Main Street (Highway K-15) to the east city
limits.
   (b)   The fine for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or any other
traffic offense for which the Municipal Judge establishes a fine in a fine
schedule shall not be less than $10 nor more than $500. A person tried and
convicted for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or other traffic
offense for which a fine has been established in a schedule of fines shall pay
a fine fixed by the Court not to exceed $500. Persons in violation of all other
sections of this article shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500,
or imprisonment of not more than ten days.
(Ord. 288, passed 10-14-1985)
§ 14-210 MAIN TRAFFICWAYS.
   (a)   It is hereby authorized, ordered and directed that the east one-half
of Anderson Road within the city limits shall be and hereby is designated and
established as a main trafficway within the city, the primary function of which
is the movement of through traffic within the city, under the authority of
K.S.A. 12-685.
   (b)   It is hereby authorized, ordered and directed that 24th Street is
located in the city and is hereby designated and established as a main
trafficway within the city, the primary function of which is the movement of
through traffic within the city, under the authority of K.S.A. 12-685.
   (c)   It is hereby authorized, ordered and directed, under the authority of
K.S.A. 12-685 et seq., that Main Street, within the limits of the city, is
hereby designated and established as a main trafficway.
   (d)   It is hereby authorized, ordered and directed, under the authority of
K.S.A. 12-685 et seq., that the following streets located within the limits of
the city are hereby designated and established as main trafficways: Bluestem
Street, Kansas Avenue and West 27th Street.
(Ord. 269, passed 8-13-1984; Ord. 395, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 503-06, passed 4-
10-2006; Ord. 625-19, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 14-211 TRAFFICWAY CONNECTIONS.
   It is hereby authorized, ordered and directed, under the authority of K.S.A.
12-685 et seq., that the following street located within the limits of the city
is hereby designated and established as a trafficway connection which connects
to the following described main trafficway.
 
Trafficway Connection Main Trafficway
West 30th Street      Main Street
 
(Ord. 618-18, passed 3-12-2018)
ARTICLE 3: IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
14-301   Definitions
   
14-302   Impounding vehicles
   
14-303   Same; storage authorized
   
14-304   Notice of impoundment; storage of vehicle
   
14-305   Impoundment after request to leave vehicle
   
14-306   Release of vehicle from impoundment
   
14-307   Hearing
   
14-308   Charges constitute a lien
   
14-309   Satisfaction of lien; notice of public sale
   
14-310   Redemption
   
14-311   Sale proceeds
   
14-312   Statutory procedures
   
14-313   Implementation and administration
   
14-314   Reimbursement for discharged liens
§ 14-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAYS. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel. Where the word HIGHWAY or the word STREET is used in this
article, it means street, avenue, boulevard, thoroughfare, alley and other
public way for vehicular travel by whatever name, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
   OWNER or OCCUPANT. A party having fee simple title in the real property, or
a party having a leasehold interest in the real property, or a party who is the
beneficiary of a private easement for the purpose of egress or ingress to or
from said real property.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 14-302 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   The Police Department may cause to be impounded:
   (a)   Any motor vehicle unlawfully parked on a highway in violation of any
provision of a city ordinance which prohibits the parking of vehicles at the
place where or time when the impounded motor vehicle is found;
   (b)   Any motor vehicle that has been abandoned and left on a highway or
other property open to use by the public for a period in excess of 48 hours
pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1102;
   (c)   Any motor vehicle that has been parked on a highway or other property
open to use by the public for a period in excess of ten days without having
been moved that does not otherwise fall within the class of vehicles set forth
in division (b) above. Said procedure for impoundment shall otherwise be
pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1102;
   (d)   Any motor vehicle which:
      (1)   Is subject to removal pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1102 and 8-1570;
      (2)   Is subject to seizure and forfeiture under the laws of the state;
or
      (3)   Is subject to being held for use as evidence in a criminal trial.
   (e)   Any motor vehicle the continued presence of which, because of the
physical location or condition of the motor vehicle, poses a danger to the
public safety or to the motor vehicle; and
   (f)   Any motor vehicle which has been abandoned or parked on any real
property, other than public property or property open to use by the public, may
be moved and disposed of in accordance with the terms of this article by the
Police Department upon the request of the owner or occupant of such real
property. The real property referred to herein shall not be owned or leased by
the person who abandons or parks said vehicle or by the owner or lessee of such
vehicle. The city or any person, partnership, corporation or their agent
conducting a business enterprise for the purpose of towing vehicles which
removes such vehicle from the real property at the request of the Police
Department shall have a possessory lien on such vehicle for the cost incurred
in removing, towing and stowing such vehicle. For purposes of this article,
COMMON AREAS shall be construed not to mean public property or property open to
the public.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989; Ord. 388, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 14-303 SAME; STORAGE AUTHORIZED.
   The Police Department may authorize storage of such impounded motor vehicles
at any location, public or private, which is zoned for the storage of motor
vehicles.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 14-304 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT; STORAGE OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   When owner present. When the police department intends to impound a
motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-302 and the owner of the motor vehicle is then present, the Police
Department shall, before the motor vehicle is removed, provide the owner with a
notice, in the form prescribed by the Police Department, that the motor vehicle
is being impounded, that towing and storage charges will be assessed against
the impounded motor vehicle, that the owner may claim and regain possession of
the impounded motor vehicle at the location to which it is being removed for
storage without prepayment of towing and storage charges and that the owner may
request a hearing as to the propriety of the impoundment and as to the amount
of and the owner’s liability for the towing and storage charges. The notice
shall also state the location where the impounded motor vehicle will be stored
and the place where the owner may make his or her request for the hearing. The
notice shall also state, in prominent language, that failure by the owner to
request a hearing within five days after receipt of the notice may act as a
waiver of his or her right to a hearing and that this may result in the placing
of a lien against the motor vehicle for the towing and storage charges without
further notice to the owner; and that the motor vehicle be sold at public
auction to the highest bidder for cash after 15 days from the date of the
mailing of the notice. The owner of the impounded motor vehicle shall sign the
notice as an acknowledgment that he or she has received a copy of the notice,
and a copy of the notice shall be provided to the owner.
   (b)   When owner not present. When the Police Department impounds and
removes a motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-302(a) and the owner of the motor vehicle is not present at the time of the
impoundment, the Police Department shall, if such motor vehicle has displayed
thereon a registration plate issued by the division of vehicles and has been
registered with said division, mail a notice by certified mail to the
registered owner thereof, addressed to the address as shown on the certificate
of registration, and to the lienholder, if any, of record in the county in
which the title shows the owner resides, if registered in the state. The notice
shall be in the form prescribed by the Police Department, containing the same
information as required by division (a) above.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 14-305 IMPOUNDMENT AFTER REQUEST TO LEAVE VEHICLE.
   In all cases wherein the owner or operator of a motor vehicle which is on a
public street has requested that the motor vehicle be left unattended at that
location in lieu of impoundment of the motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-302, the Police Department may honor such a request for a period of time not
exceeding 24 hours, after which time the motor vehicle shall either be removed
from the location by the owner or operator or be impounded by the Police
Department pursuant to §
14-304. The Police Department shall be immune from liability for any damage,
loss or destruction of the motor vehicle occasioned by its being left
unattended pursuant to the request of the owner or operator thereof in lieu of
impoundment. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority
of the Police Department to order the removal of a motor vehicle by its owner
or operator or to impound a motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-304 at any time whenever, in his or her judgment, the presence of the
unattended motor vehicle constitutes a danger to the public safety.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 14-306 RELEASE OF VEHICLE FROM IMPOUNDMENT.
   (a)   Unless the vehicle is impounded pursuant to §
14-302(b) herein, the owner of an impounded motor vehicle may secure the
release of the motor vehicle from impoundment upon requesting such release and
presenting proof of ownership satisfactory to the custodian of the place where
the motor vehicle is stored. If the custodian is satisfied that the person
making the request is the owner or the owner’s authorized agent, the custodian
shall release the motor vehicle to the owner or the owner’s agent. Nothing in
the preceding sentence shall preclude the owner of the impounded motor vehicle
or the owner’s agent from paying any towing and storage charges that may be
assessed against the motor vehicle, but neither the Police Department nor the
custodian of the storage space may require payment of any towing or storage
charges as a condition precedent to such release.
   (b)   At the same time, as the owner or the owner’s agent requests release
of the impounded motor vehicle, and if such request is made within 40 days
after the owner receives a copy of the notice of impoundment, the Police
Department shall provide the owner or the owner’s agent an opportunity to make
a request for a hearing on the propriety of the impoundment and on the amount
of and liability for the towing and storage charges occasioned by the
impoundment; if the owner or owner’s agent requests release of the impounded
motor vehicle more than 40 days after the owner receives a copy of the notice
of impoundment, no hearing may be requested on the impoundment or on the towing
and storage charges, and the owner shall be conclusively presumed to have
consented to the impoundment and to the amount of and liability for the towing
and storage charges.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 14-307 HEARING.
   (a)   (1)   If the owner of an impounded motor vehicle or the owner’s agent
timely requests the release of the motor vehicle from impoundment and a hearing
on the impoundment and charges as provided in §
14-306, a date shall be set, not more than five days after the date of request,
for the hearing. The City Attorney shall provide a hearing examiner to conduct
the hearings required by this section. At the hearing, the owner, owner’s agent
or the owner’s attorney shall be afforded an opportunity to present, by oral
testimony or documentary evidence, his or her objections to:
         (A)   The impoundment of the motor vehicle; and
         (B)   (i)   The amount of the towing and storage charges; and
            (ii)   His or her liability for the payment thereof.
      (2)   If the owner or owner’s agent requested the hearing more than five
days but not more than 40 days after the owner received a copy of the notice of
impoundment, the owner, agent or attorney shall be required at the hearing, as
a condition precedent to the presentation of any objections by the owner, to
show good cause for the delay in making the request more than five days after
the owner received a copy of the notice of impoundment; if good cause cannot be
shown, the hearing officer shall dismiss the hearing and make the finding
stated in division (b)(2) below; otherwise, the hearing examiner shall proceed
to hear the owner’s objections.
   (b)   At the conclusion of the hearing on the owner’s objections, the
hearing examiner shall render his or her decision. If the hearing examiner:
      (1)   Finds that the impoundment was improper, he or she shall:
         (A)   Find that the owner is not liable for any towing or storage
charges occasioned by the impoundment; and
         (B)   Determine whether, and to what extent, the city shall be liable
for the expense of the towing and storage charges.
      (2)   Finds that the impoundment was proper, he or she shall establish:
         (A)   The amount of the towing and storage charges to be assessed
against the impounded motor vehicle; and
         (B)   The extent of the liability of the owner for payment of the
towing and storage charges so established.
   (c)   The decision of the hearing examiner shall be final, and a copy of the
decision shall be furnished to the owner of the impounded motor vehicle, to the
custodian of the place where the motor vehicle is stored and to the City
Attorney.
   (d)   In the event that the impoundment was pursuant to K.S.A. 8-1102(b),
the owner or occupant of the real property upon which the abandoned vehicle was
located shall not be assessed the costs of towing and storage of the vehicle.
Further, nothing within this article shall be construed to modify or effect the
validity of the possessory lien of the person removing such vehicle from the
real property established by K.S.A. 8-1102(b).
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 14-308 CHARGES CONSTITUTE A LIEN.
   (a)   The towing and storage charges occasioned by the impoundment of a
motor vehicle pursuant to §
14-302 shall be and constitute a lien upon the impounded motor vehicle, except
as provided in this section. If the hearing examiner finds, pursuant to §
14-307, that the impoundment was improper and determines that the city shall
bear part or all of the towing and storage charges, the lien created by this
section shall be discharged. If the hearing examiner finds, pursuant to §
14-307, that the impoundment was proper but that the towing and storage charges
should be in an amount less than the amount of the lien, the lien created by
this section shall be discharged to the extent that it exceeds the amount
established by the hearing examiner.
   (b)   The holder of a lien created by this section may perfect such lien in
any manner provided by law, but may not retain possession of the motor vehicle
when it has been released pursuant to §
14-306(a). In the event that the motor vehicle is released from impoundment and
the owner or owner’s agent has provided security for payment of charges as
required by §
14-306(b), the lien created by this section shall also be a lien against the
security so provided, subject to being wholly or partially discharged as
provided in this section.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 14-309 SATISFACTION OF LIEN; NOTICE OF PUBLIC SALE.
   (a)   The holder of a lien against a motor vehicle created by §
14-308, to the extent that such lien has not been discharged as provided in §
14-308 or otherwise satisfied, may enforce such lien in any manner provided by
law after 60 days from the date the motor vehicle is impounded by the Police
Department. If the owner of the motor vehicle or owner’s agent has provided
security for the payment of the lien as provided in §
14-306(b), the lien shall first be satisfied out of the security so provided,
and if any portion of the lien remains unsatisfied and undischarged, may then
be enforced in any manner provided by law.
   (b)   If the motor vehicle against which the lien is created pursuant to §
14-308 is still under impoundment 60 days from the date it is impounded by the
Police Department and the owner has not requested release of the motor vehicle
from impoundment nor paid the towing and storage charges that are the basis for
the lien, the motor vehicle shall be sold at public sale to the highest and
best bidder for cash to satisfy the lien. Notice of the sale shall be given in
accordance with K.S.A. 8-1102. Publication required by K.S.A. 8-1102 may be
made before the termination of the 60-day period for a sale thereafter.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 14-310 REDEMPTION.
   If the city is to conduct the sale:
   (a)   Any holder of a recorded lien or retained title on a motor vehicle to
be sold by the city under the provisions of §
14-309 may claim and take possession thereof, upon payment of accrued charges
and estimated costs of publication of the notice of sale to the Police
Department and the deposit with the Police Department of sufficient assurance
by surety bond or otherwise, approved by the City Attorney, that the motor
vehicle will be forthcoming for public sale thereof or upon claim of the
rightful owner prior to the sale. The Police Department shall, within three
days, make a report to the City Clerk and deliver the charges and costs so paid
to the City Clerk, taking a receipt therefor and filing it, together with a
duplicate copy of the report to the City Clerk, with the records in his or her
office. The funds shall be held in a trust account until final disposition of
the motor vehicle. Not less than five days before the date for sale of the
motor vehicle, the Police Department shall notify the lienholder or retained
titleholder of the time and place for the sale, and the lienholder or retained
titleholder shall deliver such motor vehicle to the Police Department at or
before 12:00 p.m. (noon) of the day before the sale. At the sale, the amount
paid shall be credited on the bid of the lienholder or retained titleholder. If
the lienholder or retained titleholder is the successful bidder for the motor
vehicle, the Police Department shall report this fact to the City Clerk and
then the funds previously paid by the lienholder or retained titleholder shall
be relieved of the trust previously impressed and become the same as other
funds received by the city for storage and costs of impounded motor vehicles.
If the motor vehicle is sold for a higher bid to any person other than the
lienholder or retained titleholder, the Police Department shall report this
fact to the City Clerk and the lienholder or retained titleholder shall be
refunded the amount previously paid by him or her out of the trust account; and
   (b)   If the rightful owner of the motor vehicle claims the same before the
sale by payment of the accrued charges, the Police Department shall immediately
notify the lienholder or retained titleholder in possession of the motor
vehicle and he or she shall return the same to the Police Department within 12
hours. The Police Department shall report this redemption by the rightful owner
to the City Clerk and the lienholder or retained titleholder shall be refunded
the amount previously paid by him or her out of the trust account.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 14-311 SALE PROCEEDS.
   The proceeds of a public sale held pursuant to §
14-309, whether such sale was conducted by the city or by any other person,
after payment of the towing and storage charges and costs and expenses incident
to the sale, shall be deposited with the City Clerk, if the owner of the motor
vehicle is absent from the sale, for credit to the trust account. The funds
deposited in the trust account pursuant to this section shall remain in the
account subject to the order of the person legally entitled thereto, but if no
claim is made for these funds within a period of one year after the sale, the
funds shall become the property of the city, be released from the trust account
and be paid into the General Fund as miscellaneous revenues.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 14-312 STATUTORY PROCEDURES.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to augment, diminish, supersede
or otherwise interfere with any statutory procedure established by the
legislature for the collection of unpaid towing and storage charges. The
procedures in this article are supplementary and cumulative to any statutory
procedures.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 14-313 IMPLEMENTATION AND ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and City Clerk are authorized to make rules for the
implementation and administration of this article.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 14-314 REIMBURSEMENT FOR DISCHARGED LIENS.
   If a lien created by §
14-308 and held by a private wrecker or towing firm is discharged pursuant to a
determination by a hearing examiner that an impoundment was improper and that
the city shall bear part or all of the towing and storage charges, the city
shall pay to the firm the amount determined by the hearing examiner. No payment
shall be made until it is authorized by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 330, passed 2-13-1989)
ARTICLE 4: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
14-401   Hazardous material defined
   
14-402   Same; exceptions
   
14-403   Transportation of hazardous materials
   
14-404   Hazardous materials routes
   
14-405   Parking of vehicles or trailers carrying hazardous materials
   
14-406   Removal of illegally parked trailers
§ 14-401 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DEFINED.
   As used in this article, the term HAZARDOUS MATERIAL shall mean any material
or combination of materials that, because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical, biological or infectious characteristics, poses a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or safety or the
environment if released into the workplace or environment or when improperly
treated, stored, transported or disposed of or otherwise managed.
§ 14-402 SAME; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any container that shall
have a capacity of 150 gallons or less that shall be used for the purpose of
supplying fuel for the vehicle on which it is mounted. These provisions shall
also not apply to vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks containing anhydrous
ammonia or other material primarily used by farmers for fertilizer purposes
when such vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks are parked or housed upon
property designated for the placement of such vehicle, trailer, container or
tank by any farmers cooperative, elevator company or farm supply store located
within the city limits.
§ 14-403 TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Except as provided in §
14-404, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to transport any hazardous material upon any street, avenue, highway, road,
alley or any other public right-of-way in the city.
§ 14-404 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ROUTES.
   The provisions of §
14-403 shall apply to all streets, avenues, highways, roadways, alleys or other
public rights-of-way within the city, except those specified within this
section where transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed.
Transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed upon the streets,
avenues, highways or roadways as determined by the city.
§ 14-405 PARKING OF VEHICLES OR TRAILERS CARRYING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (b) and (c) below, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to park any vehicle,
trailer or semi-trailer carrying any hazardous material within any city zoning
districts as defined in
Chapter XVI of this code.
   (b)   Division (a) above shall not apply to vehicles, trailers or semi-
trailers parked for continuous periods of time not to exceed one hour where
such vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers are parked along those routes
specified in §
14-404 of this code.
   (c)   Division (a) above shall not apply to any vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer carrying any hazardous material where such vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer is not parked within 500 feet of any structure used for human
habitation.
§ 14-406 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED TRAILERS.
   If any vehicle, trailer or a semi-trailer is found parked in violation of
the provisions of this article, the Fire Chief or Assistant Chief or any law
enforcement officer may require the owner, operator or lessee of the trailer to
move it within two hours. If such removal is not accomplished on the order of
any such officer, it may be accomplished by any such officer, by any reasonable
means, if the continued presence of the trailer or semi-trailer at its parked
location constitutes, adds to or prevents correction of a situation threatening
imminent injury or damage to persons or property.
CHAPTER XV: UTILITIES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   WATER
      
3.   ELECTRICITY
      
4.   SEWERS
      
5.   SOLID WASTE
      
6.   WATER CONSERVATION
      
7.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROLS
      
8.   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
15-101   Definition
   
15-102   Delinquent accounts
   
15-103   Notice; hearing
   
15-104   Same; finding
   
15-105   Reserved
   
15-106   Delinquent accounts; refusal of service; termination of service; lien
against property
   
15-107   Landlord liability
   
15-108   Petty Cash Fund
   
15-109   Same; deposits
   
15-110   Same; vouchers
§ 15-101 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY SERVICES. Includes water, electrical, sewer, solid waste (refuse)
and other utility services provided by the city.
§ 15-102 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, water, electric, sewer, solid waste (refuse) or
other utility service shall be terminated for nonpayment of service fees or
charges in accordance with §§
15-103 and
15-104.
§ 15-103 NOTICE; HEARING.
   (a)   If a utility bill has not been paid on or before the due date as
provided in this chapter, a delinquency and termination notice shall be issued
by the City Clerk within five days after the delinquency occurs and mailed to
the customer at his or her last known address. A copy also shall be mailed to
the occupant of the premises if the occupant and the customer are not the same
person.
   (b)   The notice shall state:
      (1)   The amount due, plus delinquency charge;
      (2)   Notice that service will be terminated if the amount due is not
paid within ten days from the date of the notice, unless the date on the notice
to pay the charges due shall be on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in
which event such notice will give the consumer until the close of the next
business day in which to pay the charges;
      (3)   Notice that the customer has the right to a hearing before the
designated Hearing Officer; and
      (4)   Notice that the request for a hearing must be in writing and filed
with the City Clerk no later than three days prior to the date for termination
of service.
   (c)   Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the City Clerk shall advise the
customer of the date, time and place of the hearing that shall be held within
three working days following receipt of the request.
§ 15-104 SAME; FINDING.
   (a)   Following the hearing, if the Hearing Officer shall find that service
should not be terminated, then notice of such finding shall be presented to the
City Clerk.
   (b)   If the Officer finds that service should be terminated, an order shall
be issued terminating service five days after the date of the order. The
customer shall be notified either in person or by mailing a letter to his or
her last known address by certified mail, return receipt requested; however, if
the order is made at the hearing in the presence of the customer, then no
further notice need be given. The Hearing Officer has a right, for good cause,
to grant an extension, not to exceed ten days, for the termination of such
service.
§ 15-105 RESERVED.
§ 15-106 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; REFUSAL OF SERVICE; TERMINATION OF SERVICE; LIEN
AGAINST PROPERTY.
   (a)   In the event that any person, except the United States or the state,
shall fail to pay the fees or charges for such utility services(s), utility
service shall be terminated as provided in §§
15-102 to
15-104. The governing body may refuse the delivery of utility service(s), as
permitted by law, until such time as the fees and charges are paid in full.
   (b)   In the event that any person, except the United States or the state,
residing, occupying, using or operating on property to which utility service(s)
furnished by the city is not paid, the unpaid fees or charges shall constitute
a lien upon the property to which the utilities are furnished. The amount of
the unpaid fees or charges shall be certified by the governing body to the
County Clerk of the county in which the property is located, to be placed upon
the tax roll for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in the
same manner as other taxes are collected by law.
   (c)   The lien, described in division (b) above, shall not attach to
property for unpaid utility fees or charges when the utility service(s) have
been contracted for by a tenant and not by the landlord or owner of the
property to which the utility service is provided.
   (d)   If at the time of application for utility service the applicant has an
outstanding balance or unpaid fees or charges for utility services provided by
the city, the application shall not be accepted until all fees or charges are
paid in full.
§ 15-107 LANDLORD LIABILITY.
   (a)   Owners of premises served by utility service under this article shall
be liable for payment of the costs of any utility service account delinquency
arising from service provides to such premises regardless of whether the
utility service was furnished upon the application and request of the owner or
lessee of the premises. This provision shall also apply when the premises are
leased by or through an agent or other representative of the owner.
   (b)   In the event that a delinquency arises involving leased premises, in
addition to the tenant, the owner or owner’s agent shall be notified in writing
of the delinquency of the lessee by first-class regular mail within ten days
after the billing to the lessee becomes delinquent. Notice shall be sufficient
if mailed to the last known address of the owner or owner’s agent known to city
personnel responsible for said mailing, after reasonable inquiry.
   (c)   If utility service is furnished to a leased premises on the
application or request of the lessor of the premises, then all billings for
utilities furnished to such leased premises shall be made directly to the
lessor, and the lessor shall be fully liable for the cost of service furnished.
   (d)   The city may collect the amount of the unpaid bill for utility
services by any lawful means; provided, however, that in no event may the city
place a lien, as provided in §
15-106(b), on real estate of the lessor.
§ 15-108 PETTY CASH FUND.
   A Petty Cash Fund in the amount of $1,000 is established for the use of the
City Utilities Department, for the purpose of paying postage, freight,
temporary labor and other emergency expenses, including refund of deposits made
to secure payment of accounts.
§ 15-109 SAME; DEPOSITS.
   The Petty Cash Fund shall be deposited in the regular depository bank of the
city and paid out on the order of the City Clerk by check which shall state
clearly the purpose for which issued.
§ 15-110 SAME; VOUCHERS.
   Whenever the Petty Cash Fund becomes low or depleted, the City Clerk shall
prepare vouchers covering expenses as have been paid from the Petty Cash Fund
and shall submit such vouchers together with the paid checks to the governing
body for review and allowance of the amounts from the regular funds of the
utilities. Warrants issued therefor shall be payable to the Petty Cash Fund and
shall be deposited therein to restore said Petty Cash Fund to its original
amount.
ARTICLE 2: WATER
Section
   
15-201   Superintendent of Water and Sewage
   
15-202   Regulations
   
15-203   Service not guaranteed
   
15-204   Service connections required
   
15-205   Application for service
   
15-206   City to make connections
   
15-207   Connection fees
   
15-208   Curb cocks
   
15-209   Check valves
   
15-210   Unauthorized service
   
15-211   Meters
   
15-212   Same; testing
   
15-213   Tampering with meter
   
15-214   Leaks prohibited; penalty
   
15-215   Disconnection, reconnection charge
   
15-216   Utility deposit
   
15-217   Interrupt service
   
15-218   Prohibited acts
   
15-219   Wasting water
   
15-220   Right of access
   
15-221   Rates
   
15-222   Payment of bills
   
15-223   Delinquent accounts; notice; hearing; finding; liability
   
15-224   Use during fire
§ 15-201 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SEWAGE.
   The general management, care, control and supervision of the city water
system shall be in the Superintendent of Water and Sewage, who shall be
appointed by the City Administrator with the consent of the governing body.
§ 15-202 REGULATIONS.
   The furnishing of water to customers by the city through its waterworks
system shall be governed by the regulations set out in this article.
§ 15-203 SERVICE NOT GUARANTEED.
   The city does not guarantee the delivery of water through any of its mains
and connecting services at any time except only when its mains, pumping
machinery and power service connection are in good working order and the supply
of water is sufficient for the usual demand of its consumers.
§ 15-204 SERVICE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (a)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose situated within the city,
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located near public water mains, is hereby required at his
or her own expense to make connection to such public water main.
   (b)   Before any connection is made to the city’s water system, an
application must be made in writing to the City Clerk by the owner of the
premises, or his or her authorized representative, for a permit to make such
connection.
§ 15-205 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a connection with the
municipal water system shall apply in writing to the City Clerk, on a form
furnished by the city for that purpose, for a permit to make the connection.
   (b)   The application shall:
      (1)   Contain an exact description including street address of the
property to be served;
      (2)   State the size of tap required;
      (3)   State the size and kind of service pipe to be used;
      (4)   State the full name of the owner of the premises to be served;
      (5)   State the purpose in which the water is to be used;
      (6)   State any other pertinent information required by the City Clerk;
and
      (7)   Be signed by the owner or occupant of the premises to be served, or
his or her authorized agent.
   (c)   Each application for a connection permit shall be accompanied by
payment of fees and/or costs specified in §
15-207.
§ 15-206 CITY TO MAKE CONNECTIONS.
   All taps shall be given, street excavations made, corporation cocks
inserted, pipes installed from main to curb and the curb cock installed in a
meter box to which the service pipe is to be connected only by city employees.
§ 15-207 CONNECTION FEES.
   The fees for connection to the city waterworks system shall be as follows:
   (a)   For connecting water main with three-fourths-inch tap, three-fourths-
inch service line and installing three-fourths-inch meter: $331 plus tax; and
   (b)   For connecting water main with larger than a three-fourths-inch tap,
service line or meter; $655 plus tax.
§ 15-208 CURB COCKS.
   There shall be a curb cock in every service line attached to the city main,
the same to be placed within the meter box. Curb cocks shall be supplied with
strong and suitable “T” handles.
§ 15-209 CHECK VALVES.
   Check valves are required on all connections to steam boilers or on any
other connection deemed necessary by the Water Superintendent. Safety and
relief valves shall be placed on all boilers or other steam apparatus connected
with the water system where the steam pressure may be raised in excess of 40
pounds per square inch.
§ 15-210 UNAUTHORIZED SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, other than duly
authorized city officials or employees, to turn water on or off at the water
meter or curb cock shut off, with a key or in any other manner, without first
obtaining written permission from the Mayor or the governing body.
§ 15-211 METERS.
   (a)   All water furnished to customers shall be metered.
   (b)   Meters shall be located between the sidewalk or property line and
curbing when the main is in the street and on private property within three
feet of the alley line when the main is in the alley. In the business district,
the meters may be installed in the basement at a location specified by the
city.
   (c)   The city’s responsibility stops at the property line.
§ 15-212 SAME; TESTING.
   Meters shall be tested before being set and at any other time thereafter
when they appear to be measuring incorrectly. If a test is requested by the
customer and the meter is found to be accurate within 2%, the meter will be
deemed correct and a charge of $10 will be made to the customer.
§ 15-213 TAMPERING WITH METER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break the seal of any meter, to alter
the register or mechanism of any meter, or to make any outlet or connection in
any manner so that water supplied by the city may be used or wasted without
being metered. It shall be unlawful for any person except an authorized
employee of the Water Department to turn any curb cock on or off.
§ 15-214 LEAKS PROHIBITED; PENALTY.
   No allowances shall be made for water used or lost through leaks,
carelessness and neglect or otherwise after the same has passed through the
meter; however, every customer shall have the right to appeal to the city a
water bill or meter reading that he or she considers excessive.
§ 15-215 DISCONNECTION, RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   The governing body shall establish by ordinance a water service
disconnection and reconnection charge. Whenever the city receives a request
from a customer for termination of water service, the disconnection charge
shall be added to the customer’s final bill. Any service disconnected for
nonpayment of delinquent bill shall be reconnected only upon payment of the
delinquent bill, interest penalty thereon and the reconnection charge.
§ 15-216 UTILITY DEPOSIT.
   At the time of making application for water service, the property owner or
customer shall make a cash deposit in the amount and manner specified in §
15-105 to secure payment of accrued bills or bills due on discontinuance of
service.
§ 15-217 INTERRUPT SERVICE.
   The city reserves the right to interrupt water service for the purpose of
making repairs or extensions to water lines or equipment.
§ 15-218 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be a violation of this article for any unauthorized person to:
   (a)   Perform any work upon the pipes or appurtenances of the city’s
waterworks system beyond a private property line unless such person is employed
by the city;
   (b)   Make any connections with any extension of the supply pipes of any
consumer without written permission to do so having been first obtained from
the governing body; and
   (c)   Remove, handle or otherwise molest or disturb any meter, meter lid,
cutoff or any other appurtenances to the water system of the city.
§ 15-219 WASTING WATER.
   (a)   (1)   Water users shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and shall
keep sprinklers, hydrants, faucets and all apparatus, including the service
line leading from the property to the meter, in good condition at their
expense.
      (2)   Wasting water may include, but is not limited to:
         (A)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain;
         (B)   Failing to repair an irrigation system’s malfunction; or
         (C)   Failing to repair a controllable water leak due to defective
plumbing.
   (b)   It shall be a violation of this article and unlawful for any owner,
occupant or manager of real property served by the city water utility to waste
water or to permit the willful waste of water to occur.
   (c)   In the event of a violation of this section, the Superintendent of
Water, or such other person as may be designated by the city, shall give
written notice of the violation and opportunity for hearing in accordance with
§
15-610.
   (d)   The penalties for violating this section shall be the same as those
set forth in §
15-610.
§ 15-220 RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   Authorized employees of the city may enter upon any premises at reasonable
hours for the purpose of reading the meter or servicing or inspecting meters or
water lines.
§ 15-221 RATES.
   The rates per month for the use of water in the city shall be as set by the
governing body.
Editor’s note:
   See Res. 408-26, passed 2-9-2026, for the full list of rates.
§ 15-222 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (a)   The bills for monthly water use as described in §
15-221 will be mailed or delivered to the customer on the first day of the
month following said water use and will be due not later than the fifteenth day
of said billing month.
   (b)   A late payment of 5% of the monthly user charge will be added to each
delinquent bill on the fifteenth day of said billing month. When any user
charge bill is not paid by the end of the month in which said user charge bill
was mailed, rendition of water and/or sewer services to such premises shall be
discontinued until such bill is paid following due notice and opportunity for
hearing.
(Res. 408-26, passed 2-9-2026)
§ 15-223 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; NOTICE; HEARING; FINDING; LIABILITY.
   Water service shall be terminated for nonpayment of service fees or charges
as provided in §§
15-102 through
15-104.
§ 15-224 USE DURING FIRE.
   No person owning or occupying premises connected to the municipal water
system shall use or allow to be used during a fire any water from the water
system except for the purpose of extinguishing the fire. Upon the sounding of a
fire alarm, it shall be the duty of every such person to see that all water
services are tightly closed and that no water is used except in extraordinary
cases of emergency during the fire.
ARTICLE 3: ELECTRICITY
[Reserved]
ARTICLE 4: SEWERS
Section
   
15-401   Definitions
   
15-402   Sewer connection required
   
15-403   Permit; connection fee
   
15-404   Application
   
15-405   Costs
   
15-406   Sewer connection
   
15-407   Sewer for each building
   
15-408(1)   Same; specifications
   
15-408(2)   Same; specifications; size and slope of building sewer
   
15-408(3)   Same; specifications; elevation
   
15-408(4)   Same; specifications; lift
   
15-408(5)   Same; specifications; cesspool, septic tank or vault
   
15-408(6)   Same; specifications; excavations
   
15-408(7)   Same; specifications; joints
   
15-409   Sewer excavations; damages
   
15-410   Failure to connect
   
15-411   Privy unlawful
   
15-412   Reserved
   
15-413   Reserved
   
15-414   Same; inspection
   
15-415   Same; discharge
   
15-416   Same; additional requirements
   
15-417   Disposal of sewage
   
15-418   Damage to sewers
   
15-419   Natural outlet
   
15-420   Standards
   
15-421   Old building sewers
   
15-422   Mud, grease traps
   
15-423   Roof, foundation drains
   
15-424   Same; exception
   
15-425   Prohibited discharges
   
15-426   Bills
   
15-427   Delinquent accounts; lien against property; other remedies
   
15-428   Sewer service charge
§ 15-401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system that receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWERS. Sewers receiving both surface runoff and sewage are not
permitted.
   INDIVIDUAL DOMESTIC. Any single-family residence, commercial business,
office, institution, school, church or public entity having an individual
direct or indirect connection to the wastewater facilities of the city and on
an individual city or private water service meter, or connection to any such
water service.
   INDUSTRIAL. Any industrial business engaged in the manufacturing or
processing of one or more products, and in which wastewaters are produced from
such manufacturing or processing and said wastewaters are discharged directly
or indirectly to the wastewater facilities of the city.
   MULTI-DOMESTIC. Any multi-family residence, apartment or mobile home and any
commercial business, office, institution, school, church or public entity
having a direct or indirect connection to the wastewater facilities of the city
and not having an individual water service meter, but is served with city or
private metered water by the owner of the property on which it is located.
   NORMAL WASTEWATER. The strength of normal wastewater shall be considered
within the following ranges:
      (1)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand of 300 milligrams per liter or
less;
      (2)   A suspended solids concentration of 350 milligrams or less; and
      (3)   Hydrogen ion concentration of 5.0 to 9.0.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer that carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the city or his or her authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USER. Any person as defined in §
1-102, including an institution, governmental agency or political subdivision
producing wastewater requiring processing and treatment to remove pollutants
and having premises connected to the wastewater facilities.
   WASTEWATER. Sewage, the combination of liquids and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial and industrial buildings, institutions and governmental
agencies, together with any ground, surface or stormwater that may be present.
§ 15-402 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required,
at his or her expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this article within 90 days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within 140 feet of the
property line.
§ 15-403 PERMIT; CONNECTION FEE.
   (a)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (b)   There shall be charged a fee of $10, payable at the time of making
application for the permit.
§ 15-404 APPLICATION.
   (a)   Any person desiring to make a connection to the city sewer system
shall apply in writing to the City Clerk, who shall forward the application to
the Utility Superintendent.
   (b)   The application shall contain:
      (1)   The legal description of the property to be connected;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner or owners of the property;
      (3)   The kind of property to be connected (residential, commercial or
industrial); and
      (4)   The point of proposed connection to the city sewer line.
§ 15-405 COSTS.
   (a)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be paid by the owner.
   (b)   The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
§ 15-406 SEWER CONNECTION.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at
the “Y” branch if such branch is available at a suitable location. Where no
properly located “Y” branch is available, the connection shall be made in the
manner approved by the Utility Superintendent and at a location designated by
the Superintendent.
§ 15-407 SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be feasiblely constructed to the
rear building. In such case, the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
§ 15-408(1) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The building sewer shall be constructed of cast iron pipe, ASTM
specifications A74-42, or approved equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM
specifications C13-44T, or approved equal; or an approved plastic pipe. Any
plastic pipe to be installed on any building sewer shall not be approved by the
city until the owner has furnished descriptive literature and typical sample
section of the plastic pipe proposed for installation to the city for
inspection and review. All joints on all pipe installed shall be tight and
waterproof. Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of a
water service pipe or city water main shall be constructed of approved cast
iron soil pipe with approved joints. No building sewer shall be installed
within three feet of existing gas lines. If installed in filled or unstable
ground, the building sewer shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe, except
that non-metallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed
or cradle as approved by the city.
§ 15-408(2) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; SIZE AND SLOPE OF BUILDING SEWER.
   The size and slope of the building sewer to be installed shall be subject to
the approval of the City Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter of the
pipe be less than four inches. The slope at which a six-inch pipe is to be laid
shall be not less than one-eighth inch per foot, and for four-inch pipe, not
less than one-fourth inch per foot. Any grades for the pipe which are proposed
for installation at grades less than these specified shall be approved by the
City Inspector prior to placement.
§ 15-408(3) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to
or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. The
depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer
shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
Changes in direction shall be made only with approved curved pipe and fittings,
including cleanout fittings.
§ 15-408(4) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; LIFT.
   At buildings in which the building drain is too low to permit gravity flow
to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by
approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. The use of any
pumping equipment for which cross-connections with a public water supply system
are needed is prohibited. The total costs of pumping equipment and pumping
equipment operational costs shall be those of the owner.
§ 15-408(5) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; CESSPOOL, SEPTIC TANK OR VAULT.
   No building sewer shall be laid across a cesspool, septic tank or vault
until the cesspool, septic tank or vault has been well cleaned and filled with
an approved earth or sand fill, then thoroughly tamped and water-settled. Cast
iron pipe may be used across cesspools or septic tanks if proper bedding and
support for the sewer pipe is acquired.
§ 15-408(6) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavation required for the installation of the building sewer shall be
open trench work unless otherwise approved by the city. Pipe laying and
backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications C12-19,
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected and
approved.
§ 15-408(7) SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; JOINTS.
   (a)   All joints in the building sewers shall be made water-tight. If
recommended by the City Inspector, a water pressure test shall be made on the
completed sewer to ensure compliance with this requirement, requiring that the
building sewer withstand an internal water pressure of five psi without
leakage.
   (b)   Cast iron pipe with lead joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or
hemp and filled with molten lead, federal specifications QQ-L-156, not less
than one inch deep. Lead shall be run in one pour and caulked and packed tight.
No paint, varnish or other coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material
until after the joint has been tested and approved.
   (c)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe shall be the polyurethane
compression-type joints, approved by the City Inspector.
   (d)   Joints for all plastic pipe used in building sewers shall be the slip-
type joints or solvent weld- type, approved by the city.
   (e)   Joints between any two different types of pipes shall be made with
lead, asphaltic jointing materials or concrete, as approved by the city. All
joints shall be water-tight and constructed to ensure minimum root penetration
and to the satisfaction of the city.
§ 15-409 SEWER EXCAVATIONS; DAMAGES.
   All excavations for buildings sewers shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, curb
and gutters, sidewalks, parkways and other public property removed or damaged
during the installation of the building sewer shall be repaired or replaced in
a manner acceptable to the city and at the total expense of the owner. It is
further agreed that any parties involved in any excavating or installation work
for sewer installations, as above set out, will hold the city harmless from any
and all damages to persons or property resulting from or growing out of any
opening or excavation or any negligent act or from any operation made within
the city.
§ 15-410 FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   (a)   If any person, as defined in §
1-102, shall fail to connect any dwelling or building with the sewer system
after being noticed, the city may cause such buildings to be connected with the
sewer system as authorized by K.S.A. 12-631.
   (b)   The cost and expense, including inspection fees, shall be assessed
against the property. Until such assessments shall have been collected and paid
to the city, the cost of making such connection may be paid from the General
Fund or through the issuance of no-fund warrants.
§ 15-411 PRIVY UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in this article.
§ 15-412 RESERVED.
§ 15-413 RESERVED.
§ 15-414 SAME; INSPECTION.
   The Utility Superintendent or his or her authorized representative shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and the applicant
shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection or
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
§ 15-415 SAME; DISCHARGE.
   (a)   The type, capacities, location and layout of the private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations and requirements of the
Water Pollution Control section of the State Department of Health and
Environment (K.A.R. 28, Art. 16). No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than one acre. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (b)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
15-402, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this article, and any septic tank, cesspool and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable and acceptable
materials.
§ 15-416 SAME; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the City or County Health
Officer.
§ 15-417 DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or discharge from any source
whatsoever any sewage or human excrement upon any public or private grounds
within the city, or to permit the contents of any privy, vault or septic tank
to be deposited or discharged upon the surface of any grounds. Any unauthorized
or unapproved privy vault, septic tank or other means or places for the
disposal of sewage, excrement and polluted water may be abated as a public
nuisance upon the order of the City or County Board of Health in accordance
with the laws of the state.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e, 12-1617g)
§ 15-418 DAMAGE TO SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to maliciously, willfully
or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any
sewer, structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the municipal
sewer system.
§ 15-419 NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with the provisions of this article.
§ 15-420 STANDARDS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials, excavation, placing of pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city.
§ 15-421 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Utility Superintendent, to meet
all requirements of this article.
§ 15-422 MUD, GREASE TRAPS.
   All garages, filling stations, milk plants or other commercial or industrial
plants connected to the public sewer shall construct and maintain proper and
sufficient interceptors or traps to prevent the discharge of any sand, mud,
sediment, litter, waste or any substance harmful to the effective operation and
maintenance of the city sewer system into the building sewer.
§ 15-423 ROOF, FOUNDATION DRAINS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to connect downspouts from any roof area, or
drains from any building foundation, paved areas, yards or open courts, or to
discharge liquid wastes from any air conditioning unit or cooling device having
a capacity in excess of one ton per hour or one horsepower, into any city
sanitary sewer.
   (b)   All discharges prohibited in division (a) above may be discharged into
the public gutter or storm drains or open drainage ditches provided such
discharge does not create a nuisance. No such liquids may be discharged into
any unpaved street or alley.
§ 15-424 SAME; EXCEPTION.
   Discharges from air conditioning units in excess of one ton per hour or one
horsepower may be permitted into a building sewer upon approval of the Utility
Superintendent where there is a finding that such cooling water cannot be
recirculated and that such wastewater does not overload the capacity of the
sewer or interfere with the effective operation of the sewage disposal works of
the city.
§ 15-425 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge any of the following waters or wastes to any
public sewer:
   (a)   Liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (b)   Water or waste that may contain more than 100 parts per million, by
weight, of fat, oil or grease;
   (c)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
   (d)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (e)   Ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
   (f)   Waters or wastes having a ph lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
   (g)   Waters or wastes containing a toxic poisonous substance in sufficient
quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of
the sewage treatment plant;
   (h)   Waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage treatment plant; and
   (i)   Noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance.
§ 15-426 BILLS.
   (a)   Bills shall be rendered monthly as provided in §
15-222 and shall be collected as a combined utility bill.
   (b)   Any person, at the time of beginning or terminating service, who
receives service for a period of less than 17 consecutive days shall be billed
at not less than one-half of the regular minimum monthly rate. For service of
17 consecutive days or more, the charge shall be not less than the full regular
minimum monthly rate.
§ 15-427 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY; OTHER REMEDIES.
   (a)   In the event any person, except the United States and the state, shall
fail to pay the user charges when due, water service shall be terminated as
provided in §§
15-102 to
15-104.
   (b)   All other remedies regarding delinquent accounts, and exceptions
thereto, contained in §
15-106 shall apply to sewer service fees, charges and services.
§ 15-428 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The monthly charge for sewer service shall be as set by the governing body.
Editor’s note:
   See Res. 406-26, passed 2-9-2026, for the full list of charges.
ARTICLE 5: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
15-501   Right of city
   
15-502   Electing not to recycle
   
15-503   Frequency of removal
   
15-504   Containers; required; specifications
   
15-505   Prohibited materials
   
15-506   Placing, maintaining and general use of carts
   
15-507   Fees
   
15-508   Open dumping prohibited
§ 15-501 RIGHT OF CITY.
   The city shall collect and dispose of trash and recyclable material in all
residential districts within the city limits as a municipal function, and all
city residents are required to avail themselves of these services.
(Ord. 656-23, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 15-502 ELECTING NOT TO RECYCLE.
   Any person may elect to not recycle, but is still subject to the full rate.
Recyclables may be disposed of as part of the regular trash collection.
(Ord. 656-23, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 15-503 FREQUENCY OF REMOVAL.
   (a)   Trash. Solid wastes and refuse shall be collected and removed once
each week from residential districts on a weekday determined by the contractor.
   (b)   Recyclable materials. Recyclable materials shall be collected and
removed biweekly from residential districts on a weekday determined by the
contractor.
(Ord. 656-23, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 15-504 CONTAINERS; REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (a)   Trash. The city, through the contractor, shall supply a trash cart not
to exceed 95 gallons to all residential units for the purpose of collecting
solid waste and refuse.
   (b)   Recyclable materials. The city, through the contractor, shall also
supply a recyclable cart not to exceed 95 gallons to all residential units for
the purpose of collecting recyclable materials.
(Ord. 656-23, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 15-505 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (a)   Trash and recyclables from residences or businesses outside the city
limits are prohibited.
   (b)   Leaves and grass clippings are discouraged from being intermixed with
trash and are otherwise prohibited from being collected and disposed of as part
of the city’s solid waste and refuse removal or recycling program if banned
from the Harvey County Transfer Station.
(Ord. 656-23, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 15-506 PLACING, MAINTAINING AND GENERAL USE OF CARTS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of each dwelling
unit to adhere to the following practices:
   (a)   The trash and recyclable carts containing trash and recyclable
materials shall be placed at a collection point, generally at the front curb
line, or at such other location as may be specifically designated by the
contractor;
   (b)   Trash and recyclable carts must be placed at the collection point not
sooner than 5:00 p.m. on the day prior to scheduled collection, nor later than
6:00 a.m. on the day of scheduled collection, and remove the cart and place it
in its normal storage location at a point behind the front building line within
24 hours after collection; and
   (c)   Maintain the carts in a serviceable and sanitary condition, which
shall be used exclusively for the placement of approved trash and recyclables
for collection and disposal by the contractor.
(Ord. 656-23, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 15-507 FEES.
   (a)   Fees for collection of trash, recyclables, including costs for
landfill and overhead, as such fees and costs pertain to each dwelling unit,
which includes the living units within apartment houses, apartments within
private homes and each unit with duplex, triplex and fourplex housing, shall be
determined by resolution of the city.
   (b)   All collection rates or service charges for the collection of trash
and recyclables from any dwelling unit as provided in this article shall be
paid for a one-month period as determined by resolution; and it shall be the
duty of the city to have prepared and delivered to each owner or occupant
thereof a statement of charges due and owning for such collections, and such
charges shall become payable and due upon the fifteenth day of the billing
month; and if not paid by the first day of the following month, the collection
of the trash and recycling from such premises may, at the option of the city,
be discontinued and may not be resumed until all collection charges against the
premises have been paid.
   (c)   Discontinuance of service by the city for nonpayment of the trash and
recyclable collection fee shall not relieve any person of his or her
responsibility and obligation to abide by the terms of this article regarding
the removal of trash and recyclables.
   (d)   The governing body is authorized to adopt by resolution a schedule of
any new trash and recyclable collection fees to be imposed, which any new trash
and recyclable collection fees would go into effect upon passage of such
resolution.
(Ord. 656-23, passed 6-12-2023)
Editor’s note:
   See Res. 407-26, passed 2-9-2026, for the full list of fees.
§ 15-508 OPEN DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall dispose of any solid waste by open
dumping; except an individual is allowed to deposit solid wastes resulting from
such individual’s own residential or gardening or lawn activities onto the
surface of land owned or leased by such individual when such wastes do not
create a public nuisance or adversely affect the public health or the
environment.
   (b)   Penalty. Any person who shall be convicted of violating this section
shall be punished with a fine not to exceed $500 or confinement in the County
Detention Center for not more than six months, or both such fine and
confinement.
(Ord. 577-14, passed 3-10-2014)
ARTICLE 6: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
15-601   Purpose
   
15-602   Definitions
   
15-603   Declaration of a water watch
   
15-604   Declaration of a water warning
   
15-605   Declaration of a water emergency
   
15-606   Voluntary conservation measures
   
15-607   Mandatory conservation measures
   
15-608   Emergency water rates
   
15-609   Regulations
   
15-610   Violations, disconnections and penalties
   
15-611   Emergency termination
§ 15-601 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to provide for the declaration of a water
supply watch, warning or emergency and the implementation of voluntary and
mandatory water conservation measures throughout the city in the event such a
watch, warning or emergency is declared.
(Ord. 438, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 15-602 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASSES OF USES OF WATER.
      (1)   CLASS 1. Water used for outdoor watering, either public or private,
for gardens, lawns, streets, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing
fields, swimming pools or other recreational areas; or the washing of motor
vehicles, boats, trailers or the exterior of any building or structure.
      (2)   CLASS 2. Water used for any commercial or industrial, including
agricultural, purposes; except water actually necessary to maintain the health
and personal hygiene of bona fide employees while such employees are engaged in
the performance of their duties at their place of employment.
      (3)   CLASS 3. Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in
either Class 1 or Class 2.
      (4)   CLASS 4. Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives
of domestic pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the city’s
water distribution system and for which a regular charge is made, or in the
case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain; or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   WATER. Water available to the city treatment by virtue of its water rights
or any treated water introduced by the city into its water distribution system,
including water offered for sale at any coin-operated site.
(Ord. 438, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 15-603 DECLARATION OF A WATER WATCH.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that conditions indicate that
the probability of a drought or some other condition causing a major water
supply shortage is rising, it shall be empowered to declare, by resolution,
that a water watch exists, and it shall take steps to inform the public and ask
for voluntary reductions in water use. Such a watch shall be deemed to continue
until it is declared by resolution of the governing body to have ended. The
resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water watch shall be effective
upon their publication in the official city newspaper.
(Ord. 438, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 15-604 DECLARATION OF A WATER WARNING.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that drought conditions or
some other condition causing a major water supply shortage are present and
supplies are starting to decline, it shall be empowered to declare by
resolution that a water warning exists, and it will recommend restrictions on
nonessential uses during the period of warning. Such a warning shall be deemed
to continue until it is declared by resolution of the governing body to have
ended. The resolutions declaring the beginning and ending of the water warning
shall be effective upon their publication in the official city newspaper.
(Ord. 438, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 15-605 DECLARATION OF A WATER EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that an emergency exists by
reason of a shortage of water supply needed for essential uses, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water supply emergency exists and
that it will impose mandatory restrictions on water use during the period of
the emergency. Such an emergency shall be deemed to continue until it is
declared by resolution of the governing body to have ended. The resolutions
declaring the existence and end of a water supply emergency shall be effective
upon their publication in the official city newspaper.
(Ord. 438, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 15-606 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water watch or water warning as provided in §§
15-603 and
15-604, the Mayor (or the City Administrator) is authorized to call on all
water consumers to employ voluntary water conservation measures to limit or
eliminate nonessential water uses, including, but not limited to, limitations
on the following uses:
   (a)   Sprinkling of water on lawns, shrubs or trees (including golf
courses);
   (b)   Washing of automobiles;
   (c)   Use of water in swimming pools, fountains and evaporative air
conditioning systems; and
   (d)   Waste of water.
(Ord. 438, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 15-607 MANDATORY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-605, the Mayor (or the City Administrator) is also authorized to implement
certain mandatory water conservation measures, including, but not limited to,
the following:
   (a)   Suspension of new connections to the city’s water distribution system,
except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to agreements
entered into by the city prior to the effective date of the declaration of the
emergency;
   (b)   Restrictions on the uses of water in one or more classes of water use,
wholly or in part;
   (c)   Restrictions on the sales of water at coin-operated facilities or
sites;
   (d)   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula,
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions;
   (e)   Complete or partial bans on the waste of water; and
   (f)   Any combination of the foregoing measures.
(Ord. 438, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 15-608 EMERGENCY WATER RATES.
   (a)   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-605, the governing body of the city shall have the power to adopt emergency
water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies.
   (b)   Such emergency rates may provide for, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of use (increasing
block rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate); or
      (3)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess
demand surcharge).
(Ord. 438, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 15-609 REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply emergency as provided for in
§
15-605, the Mayor (or City Administrator or Water Superintendent) is empowered
to promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions
of this article, any water supply emergency resolution or emergency water rate
ordinance. Such regulations shall be subject to the approval of the governing
body at its next regular or special meeting.
(Ord. 438, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 15-610 VIOLATIONS, DISCONNECTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   (1)   If the Mayor, City Administrator, Water Superintendent or other
city official or officials charged with implementation and enforcement of this
article or a water supply emergency resolution learn of any violation of any
water use restrictions imposed pursuant to §§
15-607 or
15-609, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed to the property
where the violation occurred and the customer of record or any other person
known to the city who is responsible for the violation or its correction shall
be provided with either actual or mailed notice. Said notice shall describe the
violation and order that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within
such specified time as the city determines is reasonable under the
circumstances.
      (2)   If the order is not complied with, the city may terminate water
service to the customer subject to the following procedures.
         (A)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the city governing body or
a city official designated as a hearing officer by the governing body.
         (B)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered.
         (C)   The governing body or hearing officer shall make findings of
fact and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (b)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to division (a) above. In the event of subsequent
violations, the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second reconnection and
$300 for any additional reconnections.
   (c)   Violations of this article shall be a municipal offense and may be
prosecuted in Municipal Court. Any person so charged and found guilty in
Municipal Court of violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of
a municipal offense. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
The penalty for an initial violation shall be a mandatory fine of $100. In
addition, such customer may be required by the Court to serve a definite term
of confinement in the City Jail or County Jail, which shall be fixed by the
Court and which shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a second or
subsequent conviction shall be a mandatory fine of $200. In addition, such
customer shall serve a definite term of confinement in the City Jail or County
Jail, which shall be fixed by the Court and which shall not exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 438, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 15-611 EMERGENCY TERMINATION.
   Nothing in this article shall limit the ability of any properly authorized
city official from terminating the supply of water to any or all customers upon
the determination of such city official that emergency termination of water
service is required to protect the health and safety of the public.
(Ord. 438, passed 8-9-1999)
ARTICLE 7: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROLS
Section
   
15-701   Purpose, authority and responsibility
   
15-702   Definitions
   
15-703   Requirements generally
   
15-704   Prohibited connections of fixtures and equipment
   
15-705   Refrigerating unit condensers and cooling jackets
   
15-706   Approval of devices
   
15-707   Installation of devices
   
15-708   Protective devices required
   
15-709   Barometric loop
   
15-710   Double-check valves
   
15-711   Other devices
   
15-712   Maintenance requirements generally
   
15-713   Testing of backflow devices
   
15-714   Tester/repair technician certification
   
15-715   Testing devices, approval
   
15-716   Cessation of water delivery to avoid contamination
   
15-717   Hazard to potable water supply
   
15-718   Automatic fire suppression systems
   
15-719   Existing fire suppression systems
   
15-720   Construction water services
   
15-721   Penalty
§ 15-701 PURPOSE, AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (a)   The purpose of the article is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the city from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating, within its customers’
internal distribution systems, such contaminants or pollutants which could
backflow or back-siphon into the public water system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between its customers’ in-plant potable water
systems and non-potable systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of all potable water systems by cross-connection.
   (b)   Authority is provided by the federal Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974,
42 U.S.C. §§ 300f et seq., and K.A.R. 28-15-18. The City Superintendent has the
primary responsibility for preventing cross-connections with the public potable
water system. The City Superintendent shall be responsible for the protection
of the public potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution
due to the backflow or back-siphonage of contaminants or pollutants through the
water service connection. If, in the judgment of the City Superintendent, an
approved backflow device is required at the city’s water service connection to
any customer’s premises, the City Superintendent, or his or her delegated
agent, shall give notice in writing to said customer to install an approved
backflow prevention device at each service connection to the customer’s
premises.
   (c)   The customer shall, within 90 days, install such approved device, or
devices, at the customer’s own expense, and failure or refusal or inability on
the part of the customer to install said device or devices within 90 days shall
constitute a ground for discontinuing water service to the premises until such
device or devices have been properly installed.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-702 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to those terms defined in the Uniform Plumbing Code as adopted
for the purpose of this article, the following terms shall hereby be defined to
mean as follows.
   AIR GAP. A physical separation between a supply and receptor of at least
twice the supply outlet diameter, but never less than one inch.
   BACKFLOW. The unwanted reverse flow of water, other liquids, gasses,
mixtures or other substances into the distributing pipes of a potable water
supply from any source or sources. For specific conditions of BACKFLOW, see
“back-siphonage” and “back-pressure.”
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER, REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE TYPE. An assembly of two
internally loaded, specially designed and independently operated check valves,
including an intermediate relief valve specially designed to maintain a zone of
reduced pressure between these check valves, with an automatically open
spillage port to the atmosphere. This assembly is also incomplete without
tightly closing, resilient seating shutoff valves immediately upstream and
downstream of the device. (i.e., ball valve shutoffs or resilient wedge gate
valves).
   BACK-PRESSURE. Pressure in a plumbing system higher than the supply pressure
which causes a reversal of flow. (Example: pumps or thermal expansion from
boilers.)
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. A backflow resulting from negative or sub-atmospheric
pressures in the distributing pipes of a potable water supply.
   BAROMETRIC LOOP. A loop of pipe rising at least 35 feet, at its topmost
point, above the highest fixture it supplies.
   CONTAMINANT. Any substance that, upon entering a potable water supply, would
render it a danger to life and health.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other of which contains water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam,
gasses or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other.
(Note: No physical cross-connection shall be permitted between public and
private water distribution systems without prior approval of the City
Superintendent and protection by an approved back-flow prevention device.)
   DOUBLE-CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. A device consisting of two independently
acting, internally loaded soft-seated check valves with resilient seated,
positive shutoff valves (ball valve or resilient wedge gate valves) on both
upstream and downstream ends, and properly located test ports.
   FREE WATER SURFACE. A water surface that is at atmospheric pressure.
   PLUMBING. The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following: sanitary drainage,
venting system, storm drainage facilities and the on-site water supply systems,
within or beyond the supply point to any building, structure or conveyance;
also, the practice and materials used in the installation, maintenance,
extension or alteration of stormwater, liquid waste or sewage, and water supply
systems of any premises to their connection with any point of public disposal
or other acceptable terminal.
   POLLUTANT. Any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, radiological or
biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality but does not constitute
a health hazard.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. A device consisting of both upstream and downstream
resilient seated shutoff valves, and at least one tight-seating check valve
with a relief zone to atmosphere. The valve member opening to atmosphere shall
be spring-loaded to open under continuous pressure.
   TYPE R. General residential dwelling unit classification or district.
   VACUUM. Any absolute pressure less than that exerted by the atmosphere.
   VACUUM BREAKER. A device that permits air into a water supply distribution
line to prevent back-siphonage.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-703 REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
   The potable water supply system of the city and the potable water system of
private users shall be designed, installed and maintained to best prevent
contamination or pollution by non-potable liquids, solids or gasses from being
introduced into the potable water supply through cross-connections or any other
piping connections to the system. Any water being provided by the city will
fall under the rules and regulations of the cross-connection program. All
public or private users being supplied city water directly or indirectly shall
conform to standards set by the city.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-704 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS OF FIXTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
   Connection to the potable water supply system for the following is
prohibited unless protected against backflow:
   (a)   Bidets;
   (b)   Operating, dissection, embalming and mortuary tables or similar
equipment. In such installation, the hose connected to the public water supply
shall terminate at least 12 inches away from every point at the table or
attachments;
   (c)   Pumps for non-potable water, chemicals or other substances. Priming
connections shall be made through an air gap or an approved reduced pressure
principle assembly;
   (d)   Building drainage, sewer or vent systems;
   (e)   Commercial buildings or industrial plants using a contaminating or
polluting substance; and
   (f)   Any other fixture of similar hazard.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-705 REFRIGERATING UNIT CONDENSERS AND COOLING JACKETS.
   Except when potable water provided for a refrigerator condenser or cooling
jacket is entirely outside the piping or tank containing a toxic refrigerant,
the inlet connection shall be provided with an approved backflow preventer.
Heat exchangers used to heat water for potable purposes shall be of the double
wall- type.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-706 APPROVAL OF DEVICES.
   Before any device for the prevention of backflow or back-siphonage is
installed, it shall have first been certified by a recognized testing
laboratory acceptable to the City Superintendent. Devices installed in a
building potable water supply distribution system for protection against
backflow shall be maintained in good working condition by the person
responsible for the maintenance of the system.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-707 INSTALLATION OF DEVICES.
   Devices for the prevention of backflow shall be installed as follows.
   (a)   Atmospheric vacuum breakers. Atmospheric vacuum breakers shall be
installed with the critical level at least six inches above the flood-level rim
of the fixture they serve and on the discharge side of the last control valve
to the fixture. No shutoff valve or faucet shall be installed beyond an
atmospheric vacuum breaker.
   (b)   Pressure vacuum breakers. Pressure vacuum breakers shall be installed
with the critical level at least 12 inches above the flood-level rim but may
have control valves downstream of the vacuum breaker.
   (c)   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventer. A reduced pressure
principle-type backflow preventer may be installed subject to full static
pressure.
   (d)   Devices of all types. Backflow and back-siphonage preventing devices
shall be accessibly located, preferably in the same room with the fixture they
serve. Installation in the utility or service spaces, provided they are readily
accessible, is also permitted. No installation shall be made in pits or any
other location not properly drained unless approved by the City Superintendent.
   (e)   Installers. The installation, repair or replacement of a reduced-
pressure principle assembly, double-check valve assembly or pressure vacuum
breaker shall be by a certified technician or licensed plumber. A certified
technician shall then test the device and register the test report with the
City Superintendent.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-708 PROTECTIVE DEVICES REQUIRED.
[Reserved]
§ 15-709 BAROMETRIC LOOP.
   Water connections where an actual or potential back-siphonage hazard exists
may, in lieu of devices specified in §
15-707, be provided with a barometric loop.
   (a)   Barometric loops shall precede the point of connection.
   (b)   There shall be no source of back-pressure on a barometric loop.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-710 DOUBLE-CHECK VALVES.
   The City Superintendent may authorize installation of approved double-check
valve assemblies with test cocks as protective devices against backflow in
connections between a potable water system and other fluid systems which
present no significant health hazard in the judgment of the City
Superintendent. Approved double-check valve assemblies may be used on lawn
irrigation systems if no means of injecting chemicals is incorporated.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-711 OTHER DEVICES.
   No other devices may be used for the prevention of backflow or back-
siphonage unless approved by the City Superintendent as being, in his or her
judgment, equally effective. No device shall be used which requires any special
tools for installation or maintenance.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-712 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
    It shall be the responsibility of building and premises owners to maintain
all backflow preventers and vacuum breakers within the building or on the
premises in good working order and to make no piping or other arrangements for
the purpose of bypassing or removing backflow devices.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-713 TESTING OF BACKFLOW DEVICES.
   The owner/tenant of a property shall be responsible to submit certified test
reports to the City Superintendent as required by the testing schedule for the
device. An initial registration fee shall be charged to the owner according to
a fee schedule which has been established by the City. Testing schedules shall
be established for all backflow preventers, and the interval between such
testing and overhaul of each device shall be established in accordance with the
age and condition of the device. Testing intervals should not exceed one year,
and overhaul intervals should not exceed five years. The testing procedures
shall be in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and nationally
accepted practices. Testing and repair of the backflow devices will be done by
certified testers trained as tester/repair technicians that meet the
requirements set up by the City Superintendent. Maintenance workers trained as
tester/repair technicians can service backflow preventers in their place of
employment. The City Superintendent or his or her designee shall verify and
register proper installation of backflow prevention devices in new
construction.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-714 TESTER/REPAIR TECHNICIAN CERTIFICATION.
   All tester/repair technicians shall have completed a course approved by the
City Superintendent and be certified by the City Superintendent. Tester/repair
technicians shall be tested and recertified every three years. Recertification
tests shall be to the latest accepted practice methods. Those persons certified
as tester/repairpersons at the time of passage of the ordinance codified in
this article shall continue to be certified for a period of three years. All
tester/repair technician certificates shall be renewed annually upon payment of
a fee established by the city. All such certificates shall expire on December
31 of each year, and no reduction shall be made for part of the year being
elapsed.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-715 TESTING DEVICES, APPROVAL.
   All testing devices shall be approved by the City Superintendent and shall
be compared for accuracy at least every three years.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-716 CESSATION OF WATER DELIVERY TO AVOID CONTAMINATION.
   The city may refuse to deliver water through pipes and mains to any premises
where a condition exists which might lead to the contamination of the public
water supply system and may continue to refuse the delivery of water to the
premises until the condition is remodeled.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-717 HAZARD TO POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   If the City Superintendent determines that the condition of the plumbing
constitutes an extreme hazard to the potable water supply, the City
Superintendent shall notify the owner of the premises of the hazardous
conditions. Immediate action, within 24 hours, to correct that condition shall
be taken or water service will be shut off until that condition no longer
exists. In the event of any addition, repair, replacement or alteration other
than routine maintenance, the entire system shall be brought into compliance
with provisions of this article.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-718 AUTOMATIC FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.
   All automatic fire suppression systems of 30 heads or more or having a Fire
Department connection, other than dry systems, shall be protected from backf1ow
with an approved double-check valve assembly. Backflow preventers shall be no
smaller than the line size of the underground lead. Any fire suppression system
into which chemicals of any type (corrosion, antifreeze and the like) can be
added shall be protected at the service connection with an approved reduced
pressure principle assembly. In lieu of such protection, an antifreeze loop may
be individually protected with an approved reduced pressure principle assembly
in addition to proper service line protection.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-719 EXISTING FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.
   All existing fire suppression systems shall be retrofitted within five years
of the passage of the ordinance codified in this article to meet the
requirements provided herein.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-720 CONSTRUCTION WATER SERVICES.
   All temporary water services for projects under construction shall be
protected from backflow. Services for two or less story buildings may be
protected with an approved double-check valve. Buildings of three or more
stories shall have an approved reduced-pressure principle assembly backflow
preventer installed on the construction water service. Type R occupancies shall
be exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 15-721 PENALTY.
   Any corporation, railway, common carrier, company or individual violating
any of the provisions of this article is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment
of not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day
any violation hereof is found to exist or continues to exist shall be a
separate offense and punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 358, passed 4-13-1992)
ARTICLE 8: STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION
Section
   
15-801   Definitions
   
15-802   Authorized Public Officer designated
   
15-803   Applicability
   
15-804   Compatibility with other regulations
   
15-805   Stormwater management prohibitions
   
15-806   Specific illicit discharges prohibited
   
15-807   Illicit discharge exceptions
   
15-808   Illicit connections prohibited
   
15-809   Protection of watercourses and drainage easements
   
15-810   Suspension due to emergency situations
   
15-811   Suspension due to illicit discharge non-emergency
   
15-812   Parking vehicles on residential yards unlawful
   
15-813   Construction site management; best management practices, stormwater
pollution prevention plans
   
15-814   Same; stormwater pollution prevention plans for construction
activities
   
15-815   Same; stormwater pollution prevention plans for subdivision
developments
   
15-816   Same; stormwater pollution prevention plan submission and approval;
amendments
   
15-817   Same; requirements applicable to utility companies
   
15-818   Same; requirements generally applicable
   
15-819   Right of entry, inspection and sampling
   
15-820   Notice of violation
   
15-821   Actions without prior notice
   
15-822   Cost of abatement of violation
   
15-823   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
15-824   Remedies not exclusive
   
15-825   Violations and penalties
§ 15-801 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED PUBLIC OFFICER. The person or persons designated under the
relevant section to implement, administer and enforce the provisions of this
article.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMP. A defined set of activities, prohibitions,
pollution prevention and educational practices, maintenance procedures and
other management practices designed to prevent or reduce the discharge of
pollutants directly or indirectly into stormwater, receiving waters or
stormwater conveyance systems. BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES and BMPs also include
treatment practices, operating procedures and practices to control site runoff,
spillage and leaks, sludge and water disposal and drainage from raw materials
storage.
   CITY. The City of North Newton, Kansas.
   CITY BMPs. The best management practices established by the Authorized
Public Officer for the city under the authority of this article.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Any activity, including clearing, grading and
excavating, which results in disturbance of any land surface.
   CONTAMINATED. Containing substances regarded under state or federal law as
being pollutants.
   DISCHARGE. The release, addition or introduction of any substance directly
or indirectly into the municipal stormwater drainage system.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any substance, material or waste identified or listed as a
hazardous waste by the EPA pursuant to 40 C.F.R. pt. 261.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any substance, material or waste identified or
listed as a household hazardous waste pursuant to K.A.R. 28-29-23b.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows an illicit discharge to enter the municipal stormwater drainage system
either directly or indirectly; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the municipal stormwater drainage system, either directly or
indirectly, and which has not been documented in any approved plans, maps or
equivalent records, or which has not otherwise been approved by the Authorized
Public Officer of the city.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any occurrence prohibited under the provisions of the
applicable section.
   KDHE. The Kansas Department of Health and Environment, or any duly
authorized official of the Kansas Department of Health and Environment acting
on its behalf.
   MUNICIPAL STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The system of conveyances (including
sidewalks, roads, streets, curbs, gutters, ditches, designated drainage
easements, inlets, drains, catch basins, pipes, tunnels, culverts, channels,
creeks, rivers, streams, detention basins and ponds owned, operated or
otherwise utilized by the city for collecting or conveying stormwater and
stormwater drainage, and that is not intended for the collection or conveyance
of sewage.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES. The national
system for the issuance of permits under 42 U.S.C. § 1342, and includes any
state or interstate program which has been approved by the Administrator, in
whole or in part, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1342.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   NPDES STORMWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. An NPDES stormwater discharge permit
issued by the EPA, or issued by a state under authority delegated pursuant to
33 U.S.C. § 1342(b), which permit authorizes and regulates discharges into
surface waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an
individual, group or general area-wide basis.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other legal entity.
   POLLUTANT. Any substance or material which contaminates or adversely alters
the physical, chemical or biological properties of water, including changes in
the temperature, taste, odor, turbidity or color of water. POLLUTANT includes,
but is not limited to, the following: dredged spoil; spoil waste; incinerator
residue; animal waste; trash, refuse and garbage; sewage and sewage sludge;
chemical waste; biological materials; radioactive materials; wrecked or
discarded objects and equipment; rock, sand and soil; yard waste; hazardous
waste and household hazardous waste; oil and petroleum products or waste;
paints, varnishes and solvents; automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and
solid wastes and yard wastes; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; fecal
coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; and wastes and
residues which result from the construction or demolition of any building or
structure.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   RELEASE. To dump, spill, leak, pump, pour, emit, empty, inject, leach,
dispose, add or otherwise introduce any substance, directly or indirectly, or
intentionally or unintentionally, into the municipal stormwater drainage
system.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff or drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such
precipitation.
   UNCONTAMINATED. Not containing pollutants.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
   WATERCOURSE. Any body of water, including, but not limited to, lakes, ponds,
rivers, creeks, streams and bodies of water delineated by the city.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-802 AUTHORIZED PUBLIC OFFICER DESIGNATED.
   The Director of Public Works is hereby designated as the Authorized Public
Officer, and as such is authorized and directed to implement, administer and
enforce the provisions of this article, and to perform all functions and
duties, and to exercise such authority and discretion of the Authorized Public
Officer, as prescribed under this article. The Director of Public Works, with
the approval of the City Administrator, may delegate any of the powers, duties
or functions of the Authorized Public Officer.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-803 APPLICABILITY.
   This article shall apply to all substances entering the municipal stormwater
drainage system generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless
explicitly exempted under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-804 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (a)   The provisions of this article are not intended to modify or repeal
any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law.
   (b)   The requirements of this article are in addition to the requirements
of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, and where
any provision of this article imposes restrictions different from those imposed
by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever
provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human
health or the environment shall control.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-805 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No person shall discharge or release, or cause or permit to be
discharged or released, into the municipal stormwater drainage system any
substance which is not composed entirely of uncontaminated stormwater except as
allowed in any relevant section.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any relevant section, any discharge
or release shall be prohibited by this article if the discharge or release in
question has been determined by the Authorized Public Officer to be a source of
pollutants or contamination to the municipal stormwater drainage system and has
given notice thereof.
   (c)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections as defined in §
15-801 is prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation,
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under the law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
the connection.
   (d)   No person shall connect a line conveying sewage, domestic sewage or
industrial waste to the municipal stormwater drainage system or allow any such
existing connection to continue.
   (e)   No person shall intentionally destroy, damage or otherwise interfere
with the effectiveness of any BMP implemented pursuant to this article.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-806 SPECIFIC ILLICIT DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   Except as permitted herein, illicit discharges prohibited herein include,
but are not limited to, the following:
   (a)   Motor oil, antifreeze or any other petroleum product or waste;
   (b)   Industrial waste;
   (c)   Hazardous waste, including household hazardous waste;
   (d)   Domestic sewage, septic tank waste, grease trap waste or grit trap
waste;
   (e)   Garbage, rubbish or yard waste (including grass trimmings, leaves,
weeds and all other vegetation, or portions, trimmings or wastes thereof or
therefrom);
   (f)   Wastewater which contains soap, detergent, degreaser, solvent,
surfactant, emulsifier, dispersant or other cleaning substances;
   (g)   Waste water:
      (1)   From any commercial facility for the washing of vehicles, such as
carwash facilities;
      (2)   From any similar facility associated with any new or used vehicle
distributorship, rental agency, body shop, repair shop or maintenance facility;
or
      (3)   From any similar facility maintained by any business or institution
for the washing, cleaning or maintenance of its own business or commercial
vehicles or heavy equipment.
   (h)   Wastewater from the cleaning of the portion of vehicles or equipment
which contained ready-mixed concrete, mortar, ceramic, asphalt-based material
or hydromulch material;
   (i)   Wastewater from the washdown or other cleaning of any pavement where
any spill, leak or other release of oil, motor fuel or other petroleum or
hazardous substance has occurred;
   (j)   Effluent from a cooling tower, condenser, compressor, emissions
scrubber or emission filter, or the blowdown from a boiler;
   (k)   Runoff, washdown water or waste from any animal pen, kennel, fowl or
livestock containment area;
   (l)   Swimming pool water which has not been de-chlorinated in accordance
with the specifications of the Authorized Public Officer;
   (m)   Swimming pool or fountain filter backwash;
   (n)   Any substance or material which will damage, block or clog the
municipal stormwater drainage system;
   (o)   Any release from a petroleum storage tank, or any leachate or runoff
from soil contaminated by a petroleum storage tank leakage;
   (p)   Pesticides or fertilizers, including runoff from the improper storage,
discarding, transportation or application of pesticides or fertilizers;
   (q)   Runoff, washdown or wastewater which contains any of the above; or
   (r)   Non-stormwater discharge from a construction activity site.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-807 ILLICIT DISCHARGE EXCEPTIONS.
   The following non-stormwater discharges are deemed acceptable and not a
violation of the above sections; provided, however, that if the Authorized
Public Officer determines that any discharge or flow of a type identified below
is a source of pollutants to the waters of the municipal stormwater drainage
system, and gives direct oral or written notice thereof to the person or party
responsible for such property or for such discharges or flows, then the
exception herein provided shall no longer apply:
   (a)   Uncontaminated discharge from water line flushing;
   (b)   Uncontaminated discharge or flow from a diverted stream flow or a
natural spring;
   (c)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration as defined under 40 C.F.R. §
35.2005(b)(20) to separate storm sewers;
   (d)   Discharge of flow from uncontaminated pumped groundwater or nsmg
groundwater;
   (e)   Discharge or flow from contaminated groundwater if specifically
authorized by KDHE and the city;
   (f)   Uncontaminated discharge or flow from potable water sources;
   (g)   Uncontaminated discharge or flow from a foundation drain, a crawl
space pump, a footing drain or a sump pump;
   (h)   Uncontaminated discharge or flow from air conditioning condensation
which is not mixed with water from a cooling tower, emissions scrubber,
emissions filter or any other source of any pollutant;
   (i)   Infrequent and uncontaminated discharge or flow from lawn watering,
landscape irrigation or other irrigation water;
   (j)   Discharge from the occasional, non-commercial washing of vehicles upon
a residential premises;
   (k)   Uncontaminated discharge of flow from riparian habitat or wetland;
   (l)   Swimming pool discharges (excluding filter backwash) which have first
been dechlorinated pursuant to specifications of the Authorized Public Officer;
   (m)   Discharge or flow from street washing which is not contaminated with
any soap, detergent, degreaser, solvent, emulsifier, dispersant or other
harmful cleaning substance;
   (n)   Discharge or flow from emergency firefighting activities, or which
results from actions taken under emergency conditions which are reasonably
necessary to mitigate damages to life and property;
   (o)   Uncontaminated residential heat pump discharge waters;
   (p)   Treated wastewater meeting requirements of an NPDES permit;
   (q)   Non-point agricultural discharge, excluding discharges from confined
animal feeding operations; and
   (r)   Other discharges determined by the Authorized Public Officer not to be
a significant source of pollutants to waters of the state.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-808 ILLICIT CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit to exist on any
property which is under such person’s ownership or control any illicit
connections to the municipal stormwater drainage system. This includes, but is
not limited to, illicit connections made in the past regardless of whether the
connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at
the time of connection. Illicit connections in violation of this article must
be disconnected and either eliminated or redirected in a lawful manner to an
approved on-site wastewater management system or to the sanitary sewer system,
which such work shall be performed in accordance with all permit and code
requirements.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-809 PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES AND DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse or drainage
easement passes, and any lessee of such property, shall keep and maintain that
part of the watercourse or drainage easement within the property free of trash,
debris, excessive vegetation, grass clippings and other yard waste, and other
obstacles that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the flow of
water through the watercourse or drainage easement. In addition, the owner and
lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to
a watercourse or drainage easement so that such structures will not become a
hazard to the use, function or physical integrity of the watercourse or
drainage easement in the collection and discharge of stormwater.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-810 SUSPENSION DUE TO EMERGENCY SITUATIONS.
   During an active emergency situation involving an illicit discharge, the
city may suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when it is deemed necessary
to stop an imminent danger to the environment, civilian health or welfare or
the waters of the community. The Authorized Public Officer shall use his or her
discretion to make this determination.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-811 SUSPENSION DUE TO ILLICIT DISCHARGE NON-EMERGENCY.
   (a)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this article may be
deemed to be maintaining a nuisance and may have their MS4 access terminated if
such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The authorized
enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its
MS4 access. The violator may petition the authorized enforcement agency for a
reconsideration and hearing.
   (b)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-812 PARKING VEHICLES ON RESIDENTIAL YARDS UNLAWFUL.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of any relevant section, it shall be unlawful
for any person to park or store any vehicle, except lawn equipment, on
residential lawns and yards. This section is subject to §§
15-819 to
15-825.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-813 CONSTRUCTION SITE MANAGEMENT; BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES, STORMWATER
POLLUTION PREVENTION PLANS.
   The Authorized Public Officer is hereby authorized and directed to establish
BMPs for construction site erosion and sediment control, to establish and
prescribe the required contents and elements of stormwater pollution prevention
plans and to amend any of the same from time to time as the Authorized Public
Officer may deem appropriate and necessary to implement the provisions of this
article. The Authorized Public Officer shall maintain the same in manual form,
not less than three copies of which shall be provided to the City Clerk to be
made available for public inspection, and with copies also being kept available
for examination by all persons or parties who make application or are
considering making application for a building permit in relation to a project
which would be subject to the BMPs.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-814 SAME; STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLANS FOR CONSTRUCTION
ACTIVITIES.
   (a)   The owner of a site of any construction activity, and any contractor
or contractors applying for permits on the owner’s behalf, shall each be
responsible for compliance with the requirements of this article.
   (b)   No permit shall be issued for any project involving any construction
activity until the permit applicant or the owner of the property has submitted
to and obtained the Authorized Public Officer’s approval of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan. This requirement shall also be applicable to the
issuance of any amended or subsequent permit as to a site where this
requirement was not initially applicable, but where the overall project as to
which all such permits relate has come to constitute a construction activity.
   (c)   Submission of a stormwater pollution prevention plan shall be
accompanied by a fee of $75, in addition to any other applicable permit fees;
and, further, an additional fee of $75 shall be paid upon each anniversary date
of the approval of the SWPPP until such time as the applicable construction
activities under such SWPPP have been satisfactorily completed and the site
surface properly stabilized or covered as determined by the Authorized Public
Officer.
   (d)   If the proposed construction activity relates to a site in total area,
does not involve any activities which require an NPDES stormwater discharge
permit and the Authorized Public Officer determines that it is not necessary
for the effective implementation of the requirements of this article that a
stormwater pollution prevention plan be submitted which is in full compliance
with all of the required contents and elements thereof prescribed as part of
the city BMPs, then the Authorized Public Officer may allow in substitution
thereof the illustration or description of the city BMPs which will be utilized
at the construction activity site as a part of a site plan submission. An
approved site plan with such illustrations or descriptions shall nevertheless
have the status of a stormwater pollution prevention plan for all other
purposes of this article.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-815 SAME; STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLANS FOR SUBDIVISION
DEVELOPMENTS.
   (a)   Where construction of any residential, commercial or industrial
subdivision development will involve one or more construction activities during
the life of the development project, the owner of a site of any construction
activity, and any developer on the owner’s behalf, shall submit for approval a
stormwater pollution prevention plan as part of the plans for the public
improvements necessary for such development. The stormwater pollution
prevention plan shall provide for all phases of development, including sanitary
sewer construction, storm drainage system construction, construction of
waterlines, streets and sidewalks, general grading and the construction of
individual buildings within the development.
   (b)   The subdivision owner shall provide a copy of the approved stormwater
pollution prevention plan to all contractors and utility companies prior to
their working within the subdivision.
   (c)   The subdivision owner shall be responsible for implementation of the
approved stormwater pollution prevention plan as to all construction activity
within the development, excluding construction under the control of a
subsequent owner of an individual lot or parcel or as to construction managed
by utility companies.
   (d)   Any subsequent owner of an individual lot or parcel with such a
subdivision shall be responsible for continued implementation of the approved
stormwater pollution prevention plan for all construction activity within or
related to that owner’s lot or parcel, excluding construction managed by
utility companies.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-816 SAME; STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL;
AMENDMENTS.
   (a)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall be prepared by a
professional engineer licensed by the State Board of Technical Professions;
provided, however, that the Authorized Public Officer may waive this
requirement as to submissions accepted in substitution for a formal stormwater
pollution prevention plan pursuant to division (d) below.
   (b)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall be in compliance with
the required form, contents and elements for stormwater pollution prevention
plans as prescribed in the city BMP manual. The stormwater pollution prevention
plan shall address the facilities, procedures and BMPs which will be utilized
as part of the project to prevent illicit discharges, and shall address all
phases of development, including sanitary sewer construction, storm management
system construction, waterline, street and sidewalk construction, general
grading and the construction of individual homes. One or more city BMPs adopted
pursuant to the relevant section above may be incorporated by reference into a
stormwater pollution prevention plan. The applicant will not be required to
provide a stormwater pollution prevention plan for the activities of any
contractor, subcontractor or utility company within a construction activity
site to the extent such activities are covered by a stormwater pollution
prevention plan submitted by and approved for such contractor, subcontractor or
utility company.
   (c)   Submission of a stormwater pollution prevention plan shall be
accompanied by a fee of $75, in addition to any other applicable permit fees;
and, further, an additional fee of $75 shall be paid upon each anniversary date
of the approval of the SWPPP until such time as the applicable construction
activities under such SWPPP have been satisfactorily completed and the site
surface properly stabilized or covered.
   (d)   If the proposed construction activity relates to a site which is less
than one acre in total area, does not involve any activities which require an
NPDES stormwater discharge permit and the Authorized Public Officer determines
that it is not necessary for the effective implementation of the requirements
of this article that a stormwater pollution prevention plan be submitted which
is in full compliance with all of the required contents and elements thereof
prescribed as part of the city BMPs, then the Authorized Public Officer may
allow in substitution thereof the illustration or description of the city BMPs
which will be utilized at the construction activity site as a part of a site
plan submission. An approved site plan with such illustrations or descriptions
shall nevertheless have the status of a stormwater pollution prevention plan
for all other purposes of this article.
   (e)   The Authorized Public Officer shall review all stormwater pollution
prevention plan submittals and give written approval or request for revisions
within 15 working days (excluding weekends and recognized city holidays). The
Authorized Public Officer shall withhold the issuance of any related building,
construction or other such permit until approval is given to the stormwater
pollution prevention plan.
   (f)   If there is any change in the design of a project under a stormwater
pollution prevention plan which the Authorized Public Officer determines could
affect the potential of illicit discharges to occur, or if by inspection the
Authorized Public Officer determines that any provisions of the stormwater
pollution prevention plan are deficient to prevent illicit discharges, or if
illicit discharges occur from a site subject to an approved stormwater
pollution prevention plan despite compliance with the stormwater pollution
prevention plan provisions, or if in the Authorized Public Officer otherwise
determines that amendments are necessary to the stormwater pollution prevention
plan in order to prevent illicit discharges, then in any such event, the
Authorized Public Officer is authorized to take any or all of the following
actions:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the submission and approval of amendments
to the stormwater pollution prevention plan;
      (2)   Issue such partial or total stop-work orders as may be necessary to
prevent further illicit discharges; and
      (3)   Take other enforcement actions as may be deemed appropriate and as
authorized under this article.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-817 SAME; REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO UTILITY COMPANIES.
   (a)   As an alternative to the submission of a stormwater pollution
prevention plan for an individual construction activity by a utility company,
which activity is not subject to an approved stormwater pollution prevention
plan for such construction activity site, a utility company may develop and
implement BMPs generally applicable to its activities within the city which are
sufficient to prevent illicit discharges occurring or arising from such
activities. In addition, the Authorized Public Officer may adopt and impose
BMPs on utility construction activities.
   (b)   Utility companies shall implement or abide by all applicable BMPs as
to any construction activity undertaken within the city.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-818 SAME; REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY APPLICABLE.
   (a)   No contractor, subcontractor or utility company shall enter the site
subject to an approved stormwater pollution prevention plan for the purpose of
engaging in any work thereof prior to obtaining a copy of that stormwater
pollution prevention plan for the site or project, and without taking such
steps as necessary so that its activities on that site are in compliance with
the stormwater pollution prevention plan.
   (b)   Each contractor, subcontractor and utility company is responsible for
taking all reasonable steps necessary to avoid damaging any BMP devices once in
place. Any person whose actions or neglect have resulted in the alteration,
damage or impairment of any BMP devices in place pursuant to the stormwater
pollution prevention plan shall immediately repair or remedy the same and shall
be responsible for all costs necessary for such repair and remediation.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person responsible for performance of
and/or adherence to an approved stormwater pollution prevention plan to fail to
comply with the requirements of that plan. The requirements under an approved
stormwater pollution prevention plan shall remain applicable until such time as
the construction activities under the plan have been satisfactorily completed
and the site surface properly stabilized or covered as determined by the
Authorized Public Officer.
   (d)   Any person who is required to have a construction or industrial
activity NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of
such permit, and further shall be required to do the following:
      (1)   Submit to the Authorized Public Officer a copy of the notice of
intent required under the NPDES stormwater discharge permit, submitting the
same at the same time the original notice of intent is submitted to the EPA or
KDHE; and
      (2)   Provide proof of compliance with the provisions of the NPDES
stormwater discharge permit when requested by and in a form acceptable to the
Authorized Public Officer.
   (e)   The fact that a person has conducted all activities in conformance
with an approved stormwater pollution prevention plan or in conformance with
approved or established BMPs shall not constitute a defense to a violation of
the illicit discharge prohibitions of this article.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-819 RIGHT OF ENTRY, INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (a)   Whenever the Authorized Public Officer has cause to believe that there
exists, or potentially exists, in or upon any premises any condition which
constitutes a violation of this article, the Authorized Public Officer shall
have the right to enter the premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of
conducting such inspections and sampling as may be necessary to determine
whether any violations exist and to determine the nature and extent of any
remedial actions necessary by virtue thereof. In the event the owner or
occupant of the premises refuses such entry after a request to enter has been
made, the Authorized Public Officer is hereby empowered to seek assistance from
a court of competent jurisdiction to permit or compel such entry.
   (b)   The Authorized Public Officer shall have the right to set up on any
such premises such devices as may be deemed necessary to conduct sampling of
any discharges or of the soils or any substances from which such discharges may
occur.
   (c)   Investigation of any such matter shall in no way relieve any party
from liability or responsibility for any violations occurring before, during or
after the conduct of any such investigation. Nothing in this section shall
limit the authority of the Authorized Public Officer to take any other action
or actions, including emergency action or any other enforcement action, while
also undertaking any such investigation.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-820 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   If the Authorized Public Officer determines that any person has
violated any provision of this article, or has failed to meet any requirement
of this article or of any approved stormwater pollution prevention plan, or has
failed to comply with any order issued by the Authorized Public Officer as
authorized under this article, then the Authorized Public Officer may serve
upon that person a notice of violation, which shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the alleged violator;
      (2)   The date and location of the violation;
      (3)   A description of the violation;
      (4)   A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore
compliance with this and a time schedule for the completion of each such
remedial measures; and
      (5)   A description of further enforcement actions which may be taken by
the city.
   (b)   Any person aggrieved by such notice of violation of the Authorized
Pubic Officer may appeal the same to the Environmental Hearing Officer as
designated in city ordinances. Such appeal shall be taken by filing a written
notice of appeal with the Environmental Hearing Officer within ten days of the
service of the written order. The Environmental Hearing Officer shall then
schedule and conduct a hearing upon such appeal and, within ten days of the
conclusion thereof, shall issue a written order affirming, modifying or
rescinding the notice of violation. The decision of the Environmental Hearing
Officer shall be final.
   (c)   The pendency of any such proceedings upon a notice of violation shall
in no way relieve any party from liability or responsibility for any violations
occurring before, during or after the conduct of any such proceedings. Nothing
in this section shall limit the authority of the Authorized Public Officer to
take any other action or actions, including emergency action or any other
enforcement action, while any such proceedings are also being conducted, and
nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Authorized Public
Officer to take any action, including emergency action or any other enforcement
action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-821 ACTIONS WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE.
   The Authorized Public Officer is authorized to enter upon any premises
without prior notice to issue stop-work orders as may be necessary, and to take
such further actions as are necessary to prevent, eliminate or remediate any
violations or illicit discharges, in any of the following circumstances:
   (a)   If a violation constitutes an imminent or immediate danger to the
environment or to the public health, welfare or safety;
   (b)   If a person to whom a notice of violation has been issued and has
become final, and such person has failed to comply with the directed corrective
actions within the time provided therefor; or
   (c)   If all reasonable attempts to contact a responsible person as to a
violation have failed.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-822 COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   Whenever the city undertakes the correction or abatement of any
violation, or the remediation of any damage caused by any violation, either
under emergency circumstances or due to a person’s failure to comply with any
lawful notices or orders issued by the Authorized Public Officer or the
governing body of the city, the person or persons responsible for such
violation shall be liable to the city for the costs of such corrective,
abatement or remedial actions, and payment thereof shall be due within 30 days
following written notice of such costs.
   (b)   The property owner may appeal the assessment of such costs to the
governing body of the city by filing a written notice of appeal with the City
Clerk within 30 days of the service of the written notice of costs. Pendency of
such an appeal shall suspend the obligation becoming due until such time as a
final determination of the appeal has been made. The governing body shall then
schedule and conduct a hearing upon such appeal and, within ten days of the
conclusion thereof, shall issue a written order affirming, modifying or
rescinding the cost assessment. The decision of the governing body shall be
final.
   (c)   If any such costs remain unpaid for more than 30 days after becoming
due, then in addition to other collection alternatives, the City Clerk may also
certify such costs to the County Clerk to be assessed against the property as
to which the violation relates.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-823 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Notwithstanding the other enforcement processes, procedures and penalties
provided in this, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of
any of the provisions of this is hereby declared to be a threat to the public
health, welfare and safety, and is hereby declared and deemed to be a public
nuisance. Instead of or in addition to any other remedies or procedures
hereunder, the city may commence a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise
compel the cessation of any such public nuisance.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-824 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law, and it is within
the discretion of the Authorized Public Officer or of the City Administrator or
governing body to seek cumulative remedies. The city shall be entitled to
recover all attorney’s fees, court costs and other expenses associated with
enforcement of this, including sampling and monitoring expenses. These remedies
may also include criminal penalties such as incarceration in the County Jail
for up to six months if deemed necessary by the Municipal Court Judge.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 15-825 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   The violation of any provision of this, or of any order or directive
lawfully issued under authority of the provisions of this, is hereby declared
to be a municipal ordinance infraction. In the event any party fails to take
the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation, a fine may be
levied against them as outlined below:
   (a)   A fine per day the violation remains unremedied of between $75 up to
$750 against any failure to install stormwater BMPs as indicated on the site
map required under the KDHE construction stormwater program;
   (b)   A fine per day the violation remains unremedied of between $50 up to
$500 against any failure to submit a stormwater pollution prevention plan prior
to construction;
   (c)   A fine per day the violation remains unremedied of between $50 up to
$500 against any failure to notify the Authorized Public Officer before
commencement of construction;
   (d)   A fine per day the violation remains unremedied of between $75 up to
$750 against any failure to maintain, repair or replace construction stormwater
BMP within five days of notification;
   (e)   A fine per day the violation remains unremedied of between $50 up to
$500 against any failure to cease illicit discharges; and
   (f)   A fine per day the violation remains unremedied of between $100 up to
$1,000 against any illicit discharge in the storm sewer system, and shall be
levied against each additional illicit discharge occurrence. The person
responsible for the illicit discharge shall also be liable for the reasonable
costs to the city to abate the nuisance caused by the illegal dumping.
(Ord. 669-25, passed 7-14-2025)
CHAPTER XVI: ZONING AND PLANNING
   Article
      
1.   CITY PLANNING COMMISSION/BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
      
2.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
3.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
4.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
ARTICLE 1: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION/BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
Section
   
16-101   Commission re-establishment
   
16-102   Membership, terms, interest and compensation
   
16-103   Meetings, officers and records
   
16-104   Powers and duties
   
16-105   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
16-106   Budget
§ 16-101 COMMISSION RE-ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby re-established the North Newton Area Planning and Zoning
Commission, which shall exercise its powers and duties as provided by law and
by this article within the corporate limits of the city, as presently defined
and as the same hereafter may from time to time be changed.
(Ord. 655-23, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 16-102 MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, INTEREST AND COMPENSATION.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be composed of five members and
shall be residents of the city. By the re-establishment of the Commission, all
current members, by their consent, shall continue to serve their present terms
of office. Thereafter, members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent
of the governing body at the first regular meeting of the governing body in May
of each year. The members shall take office at the next regular meeting of the
Commission. All members shall be appointed for staggered terms of three years
each. Each term shall begin on the first day of May of the year of appointment,
and shall end on April 30 in the third year thereafter. The governing body
shall have the right to remove any member of the Commission appointed thereby
for failure to regularly attend to the duties of such office, or for other good
cause shown. In case of death, incapacity, resignation or disqualification of
any member, appointment to such a vacancy on the Commission shall be made of
the unexpired term of the member leaving the membership. Should any member have
a conflict of interest, either directly or indirectly, in any matter coming
before the Commission, he or she shall be disqualified to discuss or vote on
the matter. The governing body may adopt rules and regulations providing for
removal of members of the Commission. Members of the Commission shall serve
without compensation, but may be reimbursed for expenses actually incurred in
the performance of their duties as deemed desirable by the governing body.
(Ord. 655-23, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 16-103 MEETINGS, OFFICERS AND RECORDS.
   (a)   The members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall meet on the
first Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. or at such time and place as may be
fixed in the Commission’s bylaws. The Commission shall elect one member as
Chair and one member as Vice-Chair, who shall serve one year and until their
successors have been elected. A Secretary shall also be elected, who may or may
not be a member of the Commission or city staff. Special meetings may be called
at any time by the Chair, or in the Chair’s absence, by the Vice-Chair.
   (b)   Within a reasonable time of the reestablishment of this Commission,
the Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of business and hearing
procedures. Such bylaws shall by subject to the approval of the governing body
of the city. All actions by the Commission shall be taken by a majority of the
members present and voting at the hearing. Said actions shall include, but not
be limited to, the recommendation, approval or denial of an amendment to the
zoning regulations, a rezoning amendment or a special or conditional use
permit. A proper record of all the proceedings of the Commission shall be kept.
The Commission, from time to time, may establish subcommittees, advisory
committees or technical committees to advise or assist in the activities of the
Commission.
   (c)   No meeting shall be conducted by the Commission, or by any committee
thereof, unless notice of the date, time and place of such meeting has been
conveyed not less than seven days in advance thereof to the City Clerk for the
purpose of enabling such City Clerk to provide any necessary public notice of
such meeting as required by law.
   (d)   All meetings of the Commission, or of any committees thereof, shall be
open to the public and shall be conducted in conformity with the State Open
Meetings Act, K.S.A. 75-4317 et seq.
   (e)   No business of the Commission may be conducted unless a quorum of not
less than a majority of the appointed members is present, disregarding any
vacancies on the Commission.
(Ord. 655-23, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 16-104 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The governing body and Planning and Zoning Commission shall have all the
rights, powers and duties as authorized in K.S.A. 12-741 et seq., and
amendments thereto, which are hereby incorporated by reference as part of this
article and shall be given full force and effect as if the same had been fully
set forth. The Commission is hereby authorized to make or cause to be made,
adopted and maintained a Comprehensive Plan for the city and any unincorporated
territory lying outside of the city but within the county which, in the opinion
of the Commission, forms the total community of which the city is a part. The
Commission shall also cause to be prepared, adopted and maintained zoning and
subdivision regulations on all land within the jurisdiction designated by the
governing body. The Comprehensive Plan and zoning and subdivision regulations
are subject to final approval of the governing body by ordinance. Periodically,
the governing body may request the Commission to undertake other assignments
related to planning and land use regulations.
(Ord. 655-23, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 16-105 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby designated to also serve as the
city’s Board of Zoning Appeals, with all the powers and duties as provided for
in K.S.A. 12-759, as amended. Within a reasonable time, the Board shall adopt
rules in the form of bylaws for its operation, which shall include hearing
procedures. Such bylaws shall be subject to the approval of the governing body.
Public records shall be kept of all official actions of the Board, which shall
be maintained separately from those of the Commission. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings showing evidence presented, findings of fact,
decisions and the vote upon each question or appeal. A majority of the members
of the Board present and voting at the hearing shall be required to decide any
appeal, variance or other matters properly before it. Subject to subsequent
approval of the governing body, the Board shall establish a scale of reasonable
fees to be paid in advance by the appealing party.
(Ord. 655-23, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 16-106 BUDGET.
   The governing body shall approve a budget for the Planning and Zoning
Commission and make such allowances to the Commission as it deems proper,
including funds for the employment of such employees or consultants as the
governing body may authorize and provide, and shall add the same to the general
budget. Prior to the time that monies are available under the budget, the
governing body may appropriate monies for such purposes from the General Fund.
The governing body may enter into such contracts as it deems necessary and may
receive and expend funds and monies from the state or federal government or
from any other resource for such purposes.
(Ord. 655-23, passed 4-10-2023)
ARTICLE 2: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-201   Zoning regulations incorporated
§ 16-201 ZONING REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   There are hereby incorporated by reference as if set out fully herein the
zoning regulations adopted by the governing body of the city as prepared by the
city and consisting of Ord. 301 and entitled, “Zoning Ordinances for the
Governmental Units of Newton, Kansas, and North Newton, Kansas, 1986.” One copy
of the zoning regulations, marked “Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of
the City of North Newton,” and to which there shall be a published copy of this
section attached, shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open for inspection
and available to the public at all reasonable business hours.
ARTICLE 3: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-301   Regulations incorporated
§ 16-301 REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference, for the purpose of regulating the
development of the subdivisions in the city, the subdivision regulations
printed and published in code form and entitled “Cities of Newton and North
Newton, Kansas, Subdivision Regulations,” Edition of June 2002. No fewer than
three copies of said Subdivision Regulations shall be marked or stamped
“Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 461-02 of the City of North Newton,
Kansas,” and to which shall be attached a copy of this ordinance and filed with
the City Clerk to be open for inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours. The Police Department, Municipal Court Judge and all
administrative departments of the city charged with the enforcement of the said
Subdivision Regulations shall be supplied, at the cost of the city, such number
of official copies of such Subdivision Regulations similarly marked as may be
deemed expedient.
(Ord. 461-02, passed 7-8-2002)
ARTICLE 4: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
16-401   Comprehensive Plan adopted
§ 16-401 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The recommended final draft of “The ReNewton 2030 Comprehensive Plan” should
be and is hereby adopted as the Comprehensive Plan for the city pursuant to
K.S.A. 12-747, replacing in their entirety all prior Comprehensive Plans
heretofore adopted, and all amendments thereto. The provisions of “The ReNewton
2030 Comprehensive Plan” are hereby incorporated herein by reference. No fewer
than three copies of “The ReNewton 2030 Comprehensive Plan” shall be marked or
stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 553-11 of the City of North
Newton, Kansas,” and filed with the City Clerk to be open for inspection and
available to the public at all reasonable hours. All boards and administrative
departments of the city charged with the functions of land use planning and
zoning, and with the enforcement of the Zoning Ordinances of the city, shall be
supplied at the cost of the city such number of official copies of “The
ReNewton 2030 Comprehensive Plan” similarly marked as may be deemed expedient.
(Ord. 553-11, passed 2-14-2011)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CHARTER ORDINANCES
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: CHARTER ORDINANCES
C.O. No. Date Passed Description
C.O. Date   Description
No.  Passed
1    9-8-   K.S.A. 1967 Supp., 79-1953 exemption; provides substitute provisions on tax
     1969   limitations and prohibitions.
2    9-8-   K.S.A. 1967 Supp., 15-201 exemption; provides substitute provisions on
     1969   elections, vacancies; repealed by C.O. No. 14-16.
3    6-7-   K.S.A. 1976 Supp., 79-5011 exemption; provides substitute provisions on tax
     1977   levy limitations, creation of special fund for paying utility service costs.
4    5-14-  K.S.A. 79-5001—79-5017 exemption; provides substitute provisions on tax levy
     1980   applicability.
     5-11-  K.S.A. 1978 Supp., 75-1117, 75-1120, 75-1120a, 75-1121, and 75-1122 exemption;
5    1981   provides substitute provisions on maintaining fixed asset records and
            accounting.
6    6-8-   K.S.A. 1978 Supp., 75-1122 exemption; provides substitute provisions on annual
     1981   audit requirement.
7    10-20- K.S.A. 15-209 exemption; provides substitute provisions on City Clerk
     1981   requirements.
8    12-14- K.S.A. 12-4112 exemption; provides substitute provisions on Municipal Court
     1981   costs; repealed by C.O. No. 10.
9    2-11-  K.S.A. 15-204 exemption; provides substitute provisions on City Administrator
     1985   appointment and term.
10   4-8-   K.S.A. 12-4112 exemption; provides substitute provisions on Municipal Court
     1985   costs; repeals C.O. No. 8; repealed by C.O. No. 13-16.
11   6-10-  K.S.A. 1995 Supp., 79-5028 exemption; provides substitute provisions on
     1996   property tax lid law in order to pay for certain emergency services.
12-  10-15- K.S.A. 15-204 exemption; provides substitute provisions on appointment, duties
07   2007   and removal of city officers.
13-  1-11-  K.S.A. 12-4112 exemption; provides substitute provisions on Municipal Court
16   2016   costs; repeals C.O. No. 10.
14-  4-11-  K.S.A. 15-201 exemption; provides substitute provisions on elections,
16   2016   vacancies, nominations; repeals C.O. No. 2.
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
16       7-16-1945   Franchise with Kansas Gas and Electric Company until 7-5-
                     1965.
21       1-13-1947   Franchise with The Gas Service Company for 20 years;
                     repealed by Ord. 89.
22       2-24-1947   Franchise with Kansas Gas and Electric Company for ten
                     years.
59       3-11-1957   Franchise with Kansas Gas and Electric Company for ten
                     years.
83       8-10-1964   Franchise with Kansas Gas and Electric Company until 1984;
                     repeals Ord. 16; repealed by Ord. 260.
89       - -1966     Franchise with The Gas Service Company for 20 years;
                     repeals Ord. 21.
92       3-13-1967   Franchise with Kansas Gas and Electric Company for ten
                     years.
172      8-9-1976    Franchise with Cable T.V. Construction Ldt. for 15 years.
176      3-14-1977   Franchise with Kansas Gas and Electric Company for ten
                     years.
195      1-8-1979    Franchise with Southwestern Bell Telephone Company for
                     recurring five-year periods.
260      2-13-1984   Franchise with Kansas Gas and Electric Company; repeals
                     Ord. 83.
296      8-25-1986   Franchise with The Kansas Power and Light Company for 20
                     years.
308      5-11-1987   Franchise with Kansas Gas and Electric Company for ten
                     years.
335      5-8-1989    Franchise with TCI of Kansas, Inc. for 15 years.
412      4-14-1997   Franchise with Kansas Gas and Electric Company for ten
                     years.
475-03   12-8-2003   Franchise with Kansas Gas and Electric Company, DBA Westar
                     Energy, for ten years.
478-04   4-12-2004   Franchise with Southwestern Bell Telephone, L.P. until 5-
                     31-2007.
479-04   4-12-2004   Extends franchise with Cox Communications Kansas, LLC, for
                     up to six months.
487-04   9-13-2004   Extends franchise with Cox Communications Kansas, LLC, for
                     up to six months.
489-04   10-11-2004  Franchise with Kansas Gas Service, a division of ONEOK,
                     Inc. for 20 years.
490-04   10-11-2004  Pertains to franchise with Kansas Gas Service, a division
                     of ONEOK, Inc.
491-05   3-14-2005   Extends franchise with Cox Communications Kansas, LLC, for
                     up to six months.
496-05   10-10-2005  Extends franchise with Cox Communications Kansas, LLC for
                     up to 12 months.
513-06   10-9-2006   Extends franchise with Cox Communications Kansas, LLC, for
                     up to three months.
                     Extends franchise with Cox Communications Kansas, LLC for
514-07   1-8-2007    one month (Note: handwritten note states was not
                     published).
516-07   4-9-2007    Franchise with Southwestern Bell Telephone, L.P. for two
                     years.
583-14   8-11-2014   Franchise with Kansas Gas and Electric Company for 20
                     years.
628-19   4-8-2019    Franchise with IdeaTek Telcom LLC for ten years.
661-24   3-11-2024   Franchise with Kansas Gas Service, a division of ONE Gas,
                     Inc., for 20 years.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kansas Statutes Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Charter Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KANSAS STATUTES ANNOTATED
K.S.A. Cite Code Section
K.S.A. Cite      Code Section
Ch. 2, Art. 13   8-409
8-126—8-149    8-2A05;
                 8-303
                 8-311;
8-1102           14-302;
                 14-309
8-1102(b)        14-307
8-1570           14-302
8-1599           3-107
8-2002           14-209
8-2118           14-102
9-1402           1-704
9-2107           1-704
10-803           1-314
10-804           1-314
10-1101          1-704
12-103           1-202
12-120—12-121  1-113
                 4-611;
                 8-210;
12-1,115         8-2A14;
                 8-313;
                 8-405
12-631           15-410
12-685 et seq.   14-210;
                 14-211
12-685           14-210
12-741 et seq.   16-104
12-747           16-401
12-759           16-105
12-1608          1-314
12-1617          5-105;
                 5-207
                 8-205;
                 8-206;
12-1617e         8-210;
                 8-2A09;
                 8-307;
                 15-417
12-1617g         15-417
12-1675          1-704
12-1675a         1-703
12-1675a(g)      1-704
12-1677a         1-704
12-1677b         1-704
12-16,128        1-208
12-1740 et seq.  3-105
12-1750 et seq.  8-707;
                 8-708
12-1750          4-602
12-1750—12-17564-614
12-1751          4-601
12-1752          4-604 
                 4-606
12-1753          4-607
12-1754          4-610
12-1755          4-609;
                 4-611
12-1756          4-612;
                 8-709
12-1757 et seq.  1-801
12-1801          13-102
12-1802          13-103
12-1803          13-104
12-1804          13-105
12-1805          13-106
12-1806          13-107
12-1807          13-102
12-1808          13-108
12-2902 et seq.  1-802
12-3002          1-108
12-3007          1-110
12-3008          1-111
12-3014          1-106
12-3015          1-106
Ch. 12, Art. 41  9-108
12-4101 et seq.  9-102;
                 9-106
12-4107          9-105
12-4108          9-108
12-4109          9-103
12-4112          9-112
12-4411          9-112
15-201           1-208
15-204           10-101
15-310           1-206
17-12a401        1-704
17-1914          4-502
17-1915          4-503
17-1916          4-508
17-1917          4-509
17-1918          4-510
20-2801          10-202
21-5401          10-203
21-5402          10-203
21-5403          10-203
21-5404          10-203
21-5405          10-203
21-5412          9-112
21-5701—21-571710-203
21-6204          8-201
22-2512          10-203
25-106           6-104
25-205           6-101
25-2101 et seq.  6-103
25-2111          6-104
25-2120          6-105
Ch. 27           3-105
32-1047          10-203
40-2404          8-711
40-3901 et seq.  4-611;
                 8-701
41-719           3-105;
                 3-107
                 3-403;
41-2614          3-503;
                 3-603
41-2637          3-101
41-2702          3-802
41-2703          3-801;
                 3-804
41-2729          3-101
54-104           1-501
54-106           1-501;
                 6-105
60-1111          13-109
60-2101          8-2A13
60-4101—60-412610-203
75-4301a et seq. 1-319
75-4308          1-501
75-4317 et seq.  16-103
78-111           1-504
                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
406-26   2-9-2026    15-428
407-26   2-9-2026    15-507
408-26   2-9-2026    15-221;
                     15-222
 
 
REFERENCES TO CHARTER ORDINANCES
C.O. No. Date Passed Code Section
C.O. No. Date Passed Code Section
1        9-8-1969    TSO, Table I
2        9-8-1969    TSO, Table I
3        6-7-1977    TSO, Table I
4        5-14-1980   TSO, Table I
5        5-11-1981   TSO, Table I
6        6-8-1981    TSO, Table I
7        10-20-1981  TSO, Table I
8        12-14-1981  TSO, Table I
9        2-11-1985   TSO, Table I
10       4-8-1985    TSO, Table I
11       6-10-1996   TSO, Table I
                     1-202;
12-07    10-15-2007  1-205;
                     1-301;
                     TSO, Table I
13-16    1-11-2016   9-112;
                     TSO, Table I
                     6-101;
14-16    4-11-2016   6-102;
                     TSO, Table I
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
16       7-16-1945   TSO, Table II
21       1-13-1947   TSO, Table II
22       2-24-1947   TSO, Table II
59       3-11-1957   TSO, Table II
83       8-10-1964   TSO, Table II
89       - -1966     TSO, Table II
92       3-13-1967   TSO, Table II
172      8-9-1976    TSO, Table II
176      3-14-1977   TSO, Table II
195      1-8-1979    TSO, Table II
217      2-9-1981    13-602
223      4-13-1981   13-112
233      9-14-1981   14-206
236      3-8-1982    14-205
247      11-8-1982   13-601
258      1-9-1984    1-612;
                     1-613
260      2-13-1984   TSO, Table II
261      2-13-1984   11-203
269      8-13-1984   14-210
280      4-2-1985    8-901—
                     8-903
                     14-204;
288      10-14-1985  14-206—
                     14-209
296      8-25-1986   TSO, Table II
299      9-8-1986    2-402
308      5-11-1987   TSO, Table II
313      7-13-1987   12-101—
                     12-109
                     1-305;
316      10-12-1987  1-306;
                     1-308
321      2-8-1988    1-305
330      2-13-1989   14-301—
                     14-314
335      5-8-1989    TSO, Table II
349      3-11-1991   14-202
                     15-701—
358      4-13-1992   15-707;
                     15-709—
                     15-721
359      4-13-1992   2-301—
                     2-305
363      5-11-1992   3-109
388      8-8-1994    14-302
394      4-10-1995   1-901
395      6-12-1995   14-210
410      11-11-1996  1-307
412      4-14-1997   TSO, Table II
438      8-9-1999    15-601—
                     15-611
444      11-8-1999   7-301—
                     7-307
451-01   5-14-2001   1-801
460-02   4-8-2002    1-802
461-02   7-8-2002    16-301
464-02   11-11-2002  14-206
472-03   8-11-2003   2-124
475-03   12-8-2003   TSO, Table II
478-04   4-12-2004   TSO, Table II
479-04   4-12-2004   TSO, Table II
485-04   8-21-2004   4-1002
487-04   9-13-2004   TSO, Table II
489-04   10-11-2004  TSO, Table II
490-04   10-11-2004  TSO, Table II
491-05   3-14-2005   TSO, Table II
496-05   10-10-2005  TSO, Table II
503-06   4-10-2006   14-210
513-06   10-9-2006   TSO, Table II
514-07   1-8-2007    TSO, Table II
516-07   4-9-2007    TSO, Table II
525-07   12-10-2007  8-801—
                     8-805
528-08   6-9-2008    4-1001
540-10   2-8-2010    14-203
544-10   4-12-2010   1-203;
                     1-204
                     4-402;
547-10   7-12-2010   4-403;
                     4-433
553-11   2-14-2011   16-401
577-14   3-10-2014   15-508
                     4-302;
580-14   4-14-2014   4-303;
                     4-334
582-14   7-14-2014   8-401—
                     8-409
583-14   8-11-2014   TSO, Table II
588-14   10-13-2014  2-301
590-14   10-13-2014  11-201
593-14   10-13-2014  11-202
606-16   4-11-2016   9-112
618-18   3-12-2018   14-211
625-19   2-11-2019   14-210
628-19   4-8-2019    TSO, Table II
639-20   11-9-2020   14-204
642-21   7-12-2021   14-204
645-21   10-11-2021  14-206
649-22   8-8-2022    13-301—
                     13-315
653-23   3-13-2023   14-206
655-23   4-10-2023   16-101—
                     16-106
656-23   6-12-2023   15-501—
                     15-507
                     13-501—
659-23   8-14-2023   13-514;
                     Ch. XIII, Art. 5, Appx. A;
                     Ch. XIII, Art. 5, Appx. B
661-24   3-11-2024   TSO, Table II
664-24   8-12-2024   14-204
667-25   2-19-2025   9-103
668-25   6-2-2025    7-201—
                     7-204
669-25   7-14-2025   15-801—
                     15-825
670-25   8-11-2025   14-101—
                     14-103
671-25   8-11-2025   11-101
673-25   11-10-2025  4-201—
                     4-228
674-25   11-10-2025  4-701—
                     4-723
675-25   11-10-2025  4-801—
                     4-830
676-25   11-10-2025  4-901—
                     4-912
678-25   12-8-2025   3-701—
                     3-705
                    
 
