PHILLIPSBURG, KANSAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord. 1461, passed 5-18-2026
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
***** CITY OFFICIALS *****
Mayor                          Lance R. Munyon
City Council Ward 1            Terry McConnell
                              Brian Shrader
City Council Ward 2            Kenneth Craig
                              Don Roberts
City Council Ward 3            Lauren Weinert
                              Jerry Voorhees
Public Works Director          Trenton R. Weinman
City Clerk                     Brandi Spray
City Treasurer                 Abby Wahl
City Attorney                  Dakota Coomes
Law Enforcement/County Sheriff Kyle Pinkerton
                               
Airport Board
Chair                          Jay Mulder
Members                        Doyle Bohl
                              Kassy Dewitt
                              Kevin Morgan
                              Bill Prochazka
                               
Board of Zoning Appeals
Chair                          Roger Jackson
Members                        Dan Crist
                              Sherry Robinson
                              Ken Stormont
                              Doug Vahle
                               
Fire Department
Chief                          Jeremiah Clancy
Assistant Chief                Blaine VanKooten
                               
Housing Authority Board
Chairman                       Chris Hugunin
Vice Chairman                  Stan Wagner
Members                        Arliss Hatcher
                              Karin Patton
                              Kelly Wolters
                               
Library Board
President                      Sara Olson
Vice President                 Allison Culbertson
Secretary                      Pam Crist
Treasurer                      Kate Otter
Members                        Diane Frantz
                              Stacye Redinger
                              Heather Sauer
                               
Parks and Recreation Board
Members                        Crystal Graf
                              Dave Hindman
                              Jake Munyon
                              Marirae Rice
                              Sam Sage
                              Lisa Schmidt
                              Travis Stites
                              Deb Stormont
                              Jessica Wilson
                               
Planning Commission
Chair                          Mike Erhart
Members                        Caleb Breon
                              Craig Cole
                              Joel Hiesterman
                              Doug Isernhagen
                              Terry Redinger
                              Jerol Robinson
                               
Shade Tree Commission
Members                        Tracy Beach
                              Howard King
                              Joan Bowman
 
CHAPTER I: ADMINISTRATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   GOVERNING BODY
      
3.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
4.   PERSONNEL POLICY AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
      
5.   OATHS AND BONDS
      
6.   OPEN RECORDS
      
7.   INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
      
8.   PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION
      
9.   AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD
      
10.   LAND BANK
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-101   Code designated
   
1-102   Definitions
   
1-103   Existing ordinances
   
1-104   Effect of repeal
   
1-105   Catchlines of sections
   
1-106   Parenthetical and reference matter
   
1-107   Amendments; repeal
   
1-108   Ordinances
   
1-109   Same; subject and title; amendment
   
1-110   Same; publication
   
1-111   Same; ordinance book
   
1-112   Resolutions, motions
   
1-113   City records
   
1-114   Altering code
   
1-115   Scope of application
   
1-116   General penalty
   
1-117   Severability
§ 1-101 CODE DESIGNATED.
   The chapters, articles and sections herein shall constitute and be
designated as “The Code of the City of Phillipsburg, Kansas”, and may be so
cited. The code may also be cited as the “Phillipsburg City Code”.
§ 1-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Phillipsburg, Kansas.
   CODE. The code of the City of Phillipsburg, Kansas.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   COUNTY. The County of Phillips in the State of Kansas.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears requiring or
authorizing the head of a department or officer of the city to do some act or
perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required
act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate
otherwise.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and City Council of the city, or those persons
appointed to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor or the Council as provided
in this code.
   IN THE CITY. Includes all territory in which the city now has, or shall
hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of its regulatory powers.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the
plural include the singular.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the word “swear” is
equivalent to the word “affirm”.
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND THE LIKE. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to in this code shall mean officers,
departments, boards, commissions and employees of the city, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include not only the owner of
the whole but any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint tenant of
the whole or a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a firm, partnership, association of persons, corporation,
organization or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal and mixed property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments, and all rights
thereto and interest therein, equitable as well as legal.
   SHALL, MAY. SHALL is mandatory and MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write, when
his or her name is written near such mark, and is witnessed by a person who
writes his or her own name as a witness.
   STATE. The State of Kansas.
   STREET. Includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other
public thoroughfares in the city.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, whether alone or with others.
   TENSES. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
   WRITING or WRITTEN. May include printing, engraving, lithography and any
other mode of representing words and letters, except those cases where the
written signature or the mark of any person is required by law.
   YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
§ 1-103 EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are in substance the
same as those of ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this
code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 1-104 EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive an ordinance previously
repealed, nor shall such repeal affect any right that has accrued, any duty
imposed, any penalty incurred, or any proceeding commenced under or by virtue
of the ordinance repealed, except as shall be expressly stated therein.
§ 1-105 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the sections of this code printed in capital letters are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of any
section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any
section, including its catchline, is amended or reenacted.
§ 1-106 PARENTHETICAL AND REFERENCE MATTER.
   The matter in parenthesis at the ends of sections is only for information
purposes and is not a part of the code. Citations indicate only the source and
the text may or may not be changed by this code. This code is a new enactment
under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-3014 and 12-3015. Reference matter not in
parenthesis is only for information purposes and is not a part of this code.
§ 1-107 AMENDMENTS; REPEAL.
   Any portion of this code may be amended by specific reference to the section
number as follows: “Section _____ of the code of the City of Phillipsburg is
hereby amended to read as follows: (the new provisions shall then be set out in
full). . .” A new section not heretofore existing in the code may be added as
follows: “The code of the City of Phillipsburg is hereby amended by adding a
section (or article or chapter) which reads as follows: . . .(the new
provisions shall be set out in full). .” All sections, or articles, or chapters
to be repealed shall be repealed by specific reference as follows: “Section (or
article or chapter) __________ of the code of the City of Phillipsburg is
hereby repealed”.
§ 1-108 ORDINANCES.
   The governing body shall have the care, management and control of the city
and its finances, and shall pass all ordinances needed for the welfare of the
city. All ordinances shall be valid when a majority of all the members-elect of
the City Council shall vote in favor. Where the number of favorable votes is
one less than required, the Mayor shall have power to cast the deciding vote in
favor of the ordinance.
(K.S.A. 12-3002)
§ 1-109 SAME; SUBJECT AND TITLE; AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall contain more than one subject, which shall be clearly
expressed in its title; and no section or sections of an ordinance shall be
amended unless the amending ordinance contains the entire section or sections
as amended and the section or sections amended shall be repealed.
§ 1-110 SAME; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   No ordinance, except those appropriating money, shall be in force
until published in the official city newspaper by the City Clerk. One
publication of any such ordinance shall be sufficient unless additional
publications are required by statute or ordinance. The publisher of the
newspaper shall prefix such published ordinance by a line in brackets stating
the month, day and year of such publication.
   (b)   In lieu of division (a) above, the city may opt to publish a summary
of an ordinance so long as:
      (1)   The publication is identified as a “summary” and contains notice
that the complete text of the ordinance may be obtained or viewed free of
charge at the office of the City Clerk;
      (2)   The City Attorney certifies the summary of the ordinance prior to
publication to ensure that the summary is legally accurate and sufficient; and
      (3)   The publication contains the city’s official website address where
a reproduction of the original ordinance is available for a minimum of one week
following the summary publication in the newspaper.
   (c)   If an ordinance is subject to petition pursuant to state law, then the
summary shall contain a statement that the ordinance is subject to petition.
(K.S.A. 12-3007)
§ 1-111 SAME; ORDINANCE BOOK.
   Following final passage and approval of each ordinance, the City Clerk shall
enter the same in the ordinance book of the city as provided by law. Each
ordinance shall have appended thereto the manner in which the ordinance was
passed, the date of passage, the page of the journal containing the record of
the final vote on its passage, the name of the newspaper in which published and
the date of publication.
(K.S.A. 12-3008)
§ 1-112 RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS.
   Except where a state statute or city ordinance specifically requires
otherwise, all resolutions and motions shall be passed if voted upon favorably
by a majority present at a meeting of the City Council.
§ 1-113 CITY RECORDS.
   The City Clerk or any other officer or employee having custody of city
records and documents shall maintain such records and documents in accordance
with K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121 inclusive, which is incorporated by reference
herein as if set out in full and as provided in the state’s Open Records Act
and the city policy regarding open public records.
(K.S.A. 12-120 to 12-121)
§ 1-114 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend
by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby. This restriction shall not apply to amendments or revisions of this
code authorized by ordinance duly adopted by the governing body.
§ 1-115 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   Any person convicted of doing any of the acts or things prohibited, made
unlawful, or the failing to do any of the things commanded to be done, as
specified and set forth in this code, shall be deemed in violation of this code
and punished in accordance with §
1-116 of this article. Each day any violation of this code continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
§ 1-116 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever any offense is declared by any provision of this code, absent a
specific or unique punishment prescribed, the offender shall be punished in
accordance with this section:
   (a)   A fine of not more than $1,000;
   (b)   Imprisonment in jail for not more than 179 days; or
   (c)   Both such fine and imprisonment not to exceed divisions (a) and (b)
above.
§ 1-117 SEVERABILITY.
   If for any reason any chapter, article, section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this code or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is declared to be unconstitutional or invalid or unenforceable,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
code.
ARTICLE 2: GOVERNING BODY
Section
   
1-201   Governing body
   
1-202   Same; powers generally
   
1-203   Same; meetings
   
1-204   Same; quorum
   
1-205   Powers of the Mayor
   
1-206   President of the Council
   
1-207   Administrative powers
   
1-208   Vacancies in governing body; how filled
   
1-209   Compensation
   
1-210   Expenses
   
1-211   Incorporating Code of Procedure for Kansas cities
   
1-212   Code of Ethics
§ 1-201 GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body shall consist of a Mayor and six Council members to be
elected as set out in Chapter VI of this code.
§ 1-202 SAME; POWERS GENERALLY.
   All powers exercised by cities of the second class, or which shall hereafter
be conferred upon them, shall be exercised by the governing body, subject to
such limitations as prescribed by law. All executive and administrative
authority granted or limited by law shall be vested in the Mayor and Council as
governing body of the city.
(K.S.A. 12-103)
§ 1-203 SAME; MEETINGS.
   (a)   Regular meetings of the governing body shall be held on the first and
third Mondays of each month at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber in the City
Offices, located at 945 Second Street. In the event the regular meeting day
shall fall on any legal holiday or any day observed as a holiday by the city
offices, the governing body shall fix the succeeding day not observed as a
holiday as a meeting day.
   (b)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or Acting Mayor, on the
written request of any three members of the governing body specifying the
object and purpose of such meeting, which request shall be read at a meeting
and entered at length on the journal.
   (c)   Regular or special meetings of the governing body may be adjourned for
the completion of its business at such subsequent time and place as the
governing body shall determine in its motion to adjourn.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 15-106
§ 1-204 SAME; QUORUM.
   In all cases, it shall require a majority of the Council-elect to constitute
a quorum to do business.
(K.S.A. 15-106)
§ 1-205 POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   (a)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the governing body. The
Mayor shall have the tie-breaking vote on all questions when the members
present are equally divided.
   (b)   The Mayor shall:
      (1)   Have the superintending control of all officers and affairs of the
city;
      (2)   Take care that the ordinances of the city are complied with;
      (3)   Sign the commissions and appointments of all officers elected or
appointed;
      (4)   Endorse the approval of the governing body on all official bonds;
      (5)   From time to time communicate to the City Council such information
and recommend such measures as he or she may deem advisable;
      (6)   Have the power to approve or veto any ordinance as the laws of the
state shall prescribe; and
      (7)   Sign all orders and drafts drawn upon the city treasury for money.
§ 1-206 PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body as President of the
Council. The President of the Council shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of both the Mayor and the
President of the Council, the Council shall elect one of its members as “Acting
President of the Council”. The President and Acting President, when occupying
the place of Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other Council members but
shall exercise no veto.
(K.S.A. 15-310)
§ 1-207 ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS.
   The governing body may designate whether the administration of a policy or
the carrying out of any order shall be performed by a committee, an appointive
officer or the Mayor. If no administrative authority is designated, it shall be
vested in the Mayor.
§ 1-208 VACANCIES IN GOVERNING BODY; HOW FILLED.
   When any vacancy shall happen in the office of mayor by death, resignation,
removal from the city, removal from office, refusal to qualify or otherwise,
the President of the Council for the time being shall exercise the Office of
Mayor, with all the rights, privileges and jurisdiction of the Mayor, other
than the appointment of officers pursuant to Charter Ord. 10 until such vacancy
be filled or such disability be removed, or in case of temporary absence, until
the Mayor shall return. During the time the President of the Council shall
exercise the office of the Mayor, the President shall receive the same
compensation that the Mayor would be entitled to; and in case of a vacancy,
other than a temporary absence or disability, the person exercising the Office
of Mayor shall become Mayor. Thereupon, the Council shall elect from its
membership a new President of the Council. Whenever a vacancy shall occur in
the Office of Council member, the governing body shall appoint an elector of
the ward where the vacancy occurs to be Council member for the balance of the
unexpired term.
(Ord. 1401, passed 10-3-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 14-308
§ 1-209 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the governing body shall receive as compensation such amounts as
may be fixed by ordinance.
§ 1-210 EXPENSES.
   Each member of the governing body shall receive for his or her services and
as reimbursement for his or her expenses, compensation as follows:
   (a)   Mileage at the same rate as is established by law by the state for
state employees for each mile traveled by the shortest route upon the
performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Council; and/or
   (b)   Reimbursement for actual food and lodging expenses upon the
performance of duties assigned by the Mayor and/or Council; provided, such
expenses shall be documented by proper receipts.
§ 1-211 INCORPORATING CODE OF PROCEDURE FOR KANSAS CITIES.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing a
code of procedure for the conduct of City Council meetings, that certain code
known as the “Code of Procedure for Kansas Cities”, Fourth Edition, prepared
and published in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka,
Kansas, save and except such articles, sections, parts or portions as are
hereafter omitted, deleted, modified or changed. One copy of said Code of
Procedure for Kansas Cities shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as
Incorporated by the Code of the City of Phillipsburg, Kansas”, with all
sections or portions thereof intended to be omitted or changed clearly marked
to show any such omission or change and to which shall be attached a copy of
this section, and filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and
available to the public at all reasonable hours.
§ 1-212 CODE OF ETHICS.
   (a)   Declaration of policy. The proper operation of our government requires
that public officials and employees be independent, impartial and responsible
to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in the proper
channels; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its
government. In recognition of those goals, there is hereby established a Code
of Ethics for all officials and employees, whether elected or appointed, paid
or unpaid. The purpose of this Code is to establish ethical standards by
setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best
interests of the city.
   (b)   Responsibilities of public office. Public officials and employees are
agents of public purpose and hold office for the benefit of the public. They
are bound to uphold the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of this state and to carry out impartially the laws of the nation, state and
city and thus to foster respect for all government. They are bound to observe
in their official acts the highest standards of morality and to discharge
faithfully the duties of their office regardless of personal considerations,
recognizing that the long-term public interest must be their primary concern.
Their conduct in both their official and private affairs should be above
reproach.
   (c)   Dedicated service.
      (1)   All officials and employees of the city should be responsive to the
political objectives expressed by the electorate and the programs developed to
attain those objectives. Appointive officials and employees should adhere to
the rule of work and performance established as the standard for their
positions by the appropriate authority.
      (2)   Officials and employees should not exceed their authority or breach
the law or ask others to do so, and they should work in full cooperation with
other public officials and employees unless prohibited from so doing by law or
by officially recognized confidentiality of their work.
   (d)   Fair and equal treatment.
      (1)   Interest in appointments. Canvassing of members of the City
Council, directly or indirectly, in order to obtain preferential consideration
in connection with any appointment to the municipal service shall disqualify
the candidate for appointment except with reference to positions filled by
appointment by the City Council.
      (2)   Use of public property. No official or employee shall request or
permit the use of city- owned vehicles, equipment, materials or property for
personal convenience or profit, except when such services are available to the
public generally or are provided as city policy for the use of such official or
employee in the conduct of official business.
      (3)   Obligations to citizens. No official or employee shall grant any
special consideration, treatment or advantage to any citizen beyond that which
is available to every other citizen.
   (e)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   Financial or personal interests. No elected or appointive city
official or employee, whether paid or unpaid, shall engage in any business or
transaction or shall have a financial or other personal interest, direct or
indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her duties
in the public interest or would tend to impair his or her independence of
judgment or action in the performance of his or her official duties. Personal,
as distinguished from financial interests, includes an interest arising from
blood or marriage relationships or close business or political association.
      (2)   Specific conflicts of interests. Specific conflicts of interest are
enumerated below for the guidance of officials and employees.
         (A)   Incompatible employment. No elected or appointive city official
or employee shall engage in or accept private employment or render services for
private interests when such employment or service is incompatible with the
proper discharge of his or her official duties or would tend to impair his or
her independence of judgment or action in the performance of his or her
official duties.
         (B)   Disclosure of confidential information. No elected or appointive
city official or employee shall, without proper legal authorization, disclose
confidential information concerning the property, government or affairs of the
city. Nor shall he or she use such information to advance the financial or
other private interest of himself, herself or others.
      (3)   Gifts and favors. No elected or appointive city official or
employee shall accept any valuable gift, whether in the form of service, loan,
thing or promise, from any person, firm or corporation which to his or her
knowledge is interested directly or indirectly in any manner whatsoever in
business dealings with the city; nor shall any such official or employee accept
any gift, favor or thing of value that may tend to influence him or her in the
discharge of his or her duties or grant in the discharge of his or her duties
any improper favor, service or thing of value. The prohibition against gifts or
favors shall not apply to an occasional non-pecuniary gift, of only nominal
value, an award publicly presented in recognition of public service, or any
gift which would have been offered or given to him or her if not an official or
employee.
      (4)   Representing private interest before city agencies or courts. No
elected or appointive city official or employee whose salary is paid in whole
or in part by the city shall appear in behalf of private interest before any
agency of this city. He or she shall not represent private interests in any
action or proceeding against the interest of the city in any litigation to
which the city is a party.
ARTICLE 3: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
1-301   Appointment
   
1-302   Employees
   
1-303   Removal
   
1-304   Vacancy in office
   
1-305   City Clerk
   
1-306   Same; fiscal records
   
1-307   Same; seal; oaths
   
1-308   Same; withholding agents
   
1-309   Assistant City Clerk
   
1-310   City Treasurer
   
1-311   City Attorney; office; duties
   
1-312   City Prosecutor; office; duties
   
1-313   City Engineer
   
1-314   Appointment or employment in more than one position
   
1-315   Conflict of interest
   
1-316   Departments created
§ 1-301 APPOINTMENT.
   At the second regular Council meeting in January of each year, the Mayor, by
and with the consent of the Council, shall appoint a City Clerk and City
Treasurer, and may appoint a City Attorney, Municipal Judge and such other
officers as may be deemed necessary for the best interest of the city. Such
officers shall hold their respective offices until their successors have been
appointed and qualified. All such appointments shall be entered on the journal
of proceedings of the governing body. The duties and salaries of all appointed
officers shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Ord. 1401, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 1-302 EMPLOYEES.
   The Council shall have authority to hire all other employees, or such
authority may be delegated to the respective department heads.
§ 1-303 REMOVAL.
   (a)   A majority of all members-elect of the Council may remove any
appointed officer.
   (b)   The Mayor may suspend at any time any appointed officer.
   (c)   Employees, other than appointed officers, may be removed by the Mayor
upon recommendation of the respective department heads.
§ 1-304 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs in any appointive office for whatever reason, the
vacancy shall be filled by the governing body. Any person appointed to fill
such vacancy shall serve only until the next regular time for appointment.
§ 1-305 CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Be custodian of all city records, books, files, papers, documents and
other personal effects belonging to the city and not properly pertaining to any
other office;
   (b)   Carry on all official correspondence of the city;
   (c)   Attend and keep a record of the proceedings of all regular and special
meetings of the governing body;
   (d)   Enter every appointment of office and the date thereof in the journal;
   (e)   Enter or place each ordinance of the city in the ordinance books after
its passage; and
   (f)   Publish all ordinances, except those appropriating money, and such
resolutions, notices and proclamations as may be required by law or ordinance.
§ 1-306 SAME; FISCAL RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Prepare and keep suitable fiscal records according to generally
accepted accounting principles;
   (b)   Assist in preparing the annual budget;
   (c)   Audit all claims against the city for goods or services rendered for
the consideration of the governing body. His or her accounts shall properly
show the amounts paid from any fund of the city and the cash balance existing
in each fund;
   (d)   Keep an accurate account of all bonds issued by the city; and
   (e)   Keep a record of all special assessments.
§ 1-307 SAME; SEAL; OATHS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (a)   Have custody of the corporate seal of the city and shall affix the
same to the official copy of all ordinances, contracts and other documents
required to be authenticated;
   (b)   Have power to administer oaths for all purposes pertaining to the
business and affairs of the city; and
   (c)   Keep suitable files of all such oaths required to be deposited in his
or her office.
§ 1-308 SAME; WITHHOLDING AGENTS.
   The City Clerk is designated as the withholding agent of the city for the
purposes of the Federal Revenue (Income) Act, and shall perform the duties
required of withholding agents by said Act or any other Act requiring
withholding from the compensation of any city officer or employee. The Clerk
shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing body or
the state statutes.
§ 1-309 ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
   (a)   The office of Assistant City Clerk is hereby established. The Mayor
shall appoint, by and with the consent of the City Council, the Assistant City
Clerk. The person so appointed and confirmed shall hold the office for a term
of one year and until a successor is appointed and confirmed.
   (b)   The Assistant City Clerk shall perform those duties assigned to that
office by the City Clerk.
   (c)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the position of City Clerk and the city
is without a person appointed, confirmed or qualified to hold that office, the
Assistant City Clerk shall become the acting City Clerk and fulfill the duties
of that office.
   (d)   Compensation of the Assistant City Clerk shall be set by ordinance
passed by the governing body.
§ 1-310 CITY TREASURER.
   The City Treasurer shall:
   (a)   Keep a full and accurate record of all money received and paid out in
a ledger book provided by the governing body;
   (b)   Publish a quarterly financial statement;
   (c)   Deposit all public monies and sign all checks of the city;
   (d)   Pay out city funds only upon orders or warrants properly signed by the
Mayor and City Clerk; and
   (e)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing body
or the state statutes.
(Ord. 122, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 10-803, 10-804, 12-1608
§ 1-311 CITY ATTORNEY; OFFICE; DUTIES.
   (a)   There is hereby established the office of City Attorney. No person
shall be eligible for the office of City Attorney who is not an attorney at law
admitted to practice in the Supreme Court of the state. The City Attorney shall
be charged with the general direction and supervision of the legal affairs of
the city.
   (b)   The City Attorney shall:
      (1)   Attend meetings of the City Council when so directed to attend by
the Council;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor and City Council and all officers of the city upon
such legal questions affecting the city and its offices as may be submitted to
him or her;
      (3)   When requested by the City Council, give opinions in writing upon
any such questions;
      (4)   Draft such ordinances, contracts, leases, easements, conveyances
and other instruments in writing as may be submitted to him or her in the
regular transaction of affairs of the city;
      (5)   Approve all ordinances of the city as to form and legality;
      (6)   Attend Planning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals meetings
when so directed by the Boards;
      (7)   Appear and prosecute all violations of city ordinances in Municipal
Court when his or her services shall be required; and
      (8)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body and the state statutes.
§ 1-312 CITY PROSECUTOR; OFFICE; DUTIES.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Office of City Prosecutor. No person
shall be eligible for the Office of City Prosecutor who is not an attorney at
law admitted to practice law in the state. The City Prosecutor shall:
      (1)   Attend meetings of the governing body when so directed to attend by
the Mayor or City Attorney;
      (2)   Advise the City Council and all officers of the city upon legal
questions affecting the city and its officers as may be submitted to him or
her;
      (3)   Draft such ordinances and other instruments in writing as may be
submitted to him or her in the regular transactions of the affairs of the city;
      (4)   Appear and prosecute all violations of city ordinances in Municipal
Court; and
      (5)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body and the state statutes.
   (b)   The governing body may appoint a City Prosecutor in accordance with §
1-301 of this article. In the event that there is no City Prosecutor, the City
Attorney shall serve in such capacity.
§ 1-313 CITY ENGINEER.
   (a)   The City Engineer shall be a licensed professional engineer in the
state.
   (b)   He or she shall be responsible for:
      (1)   The design and specifications for all city streets, sewers, water
lines, public buildings and other public facilities;
      (2)   The inspection of all public works projects including streets,
sewers, water lines and other public facilities; and
      (3)   The general supervision of the maintenance and repair of all public
facilities.
§ 1-314 APPOINTMENT OR EMPLOYMENT IN MORE THAN ONE POSITION.
   The same person may be appointed to more than one appointive office, or
employed in more than one department, except that the same person shall not be
appointed to incompatible offices. Salaries or wages of such persons shall be
prorated between the proper funds of the several offices or departments.
§ 1-315 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   All city officers and employees shall comply with the requirements of K.S.A.
75-4301a et seq., concerning governmental ethics and refrain from making or
participating in the making of a contract when prohibited by state law.
§ 1-316 DEPARTMENTS CREATED.
   There are hereby created for the City of Phillipsburg the following
administrative departments:
   (a)   Department of Law - Mayor, City Attorney, Municipal Judge;
   (b)   Department of Audit, Budget, Investments and Finance - Council
Committee, Mayor, City Clerk, City Treasurer;
   (c)   Department of Water, Sewage and Fire Department - Mayor, Council
Committee;
   (d)   Department of Street, Alleys and Lights - Mayor, Council Committee;
   (e)   Department of Police, Airport - Mayor, Council Committee;
   (f)   Department of Parks, Cemetery, Swimming Pool, Community Building and
Library - Mayor, Council Committee;
   (g)   Department of Miscellany - Water Resources, Zoning, Planning, Chamber
of Commerce Representative, Summer Recreational Program - Mayor, Council
Committee; and
   (h)   Department of Health and Welfare - Mayor, City Health Officer, Council
Committee.
ARTICLE 4: PERSONNEL POLICY AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Section
   
1-401   Personnel policies and guidelines
§ 1-401 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND GUIDELINES.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of establishing
employee personnel rules and regulations the document entitled “Uniform
Personnel Policies and Guidelines for the City of Phillipsburg”. One copy of
said document shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as adopted by the Code
of the City of Phillipsburg” and which there shall be attached a copy of this
section. Said official copy shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be
open to inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours. All
departments of the city shall be supplied with copies of such rules and
regulations as may be deemed necessary.
ARTICLE 5: OATHS AND BONDS
Section
   
1-501   Oath; affirmation
   
1-502   Oaths filed
   
1-503   Bonds required
   
1-504   Same; premiums
   
1-505   Condition of bonds
   
1-506   Approval of bonds
§ 1-501 OATH; AFFIRMATION.
   All officers and employees of the city, whether elected or appointed, either
under the laws of the state or ordinances of the city, shall before entering
upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe an oath or
affirmation as follows.
   (a)   Oath. “I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will
support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of __________ (here enter name of
office or position). So help me God.”
   (b)   Affirmation. “I do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of
Kansas and faithfully discharge the duties of ___________ (enter name of office
or position). This I do under the pains and penalties of perjury.”
(K.S.A. 54-104, 54-106, 75-4308)
§ 1-502 OATHS FILED.
   All officers and employees required to take and subscribe or sign an oath or
affirmation shall be supplied the forms for the purpose at the expense of the
city, and upon taking and subscribing or signing any such oath or affirmation,
the same shall be filed by the City Clerk.
§ 1-503 BONDS REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   The following city officers shall each, before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, give a good and sufficient corporate surety bond
to the city.
      (2)   The bond shall be in the following amount, to wit:
         (A)   City Treasurer: $25,000;
         (B)   City Clerk: $25,000;
         (C)   Clerk of Municipal Court: $1,000; and
         (D)   Judge of Municipal Court: $1,000.
   (b)   The governing body may provide for the coverage by blanket bond of
such officers and employees and in such amounts as the governing body may, by
resolution, designate.
§ 1-504 SAME; PREMIUMS.
   All premiums on surety bonds shall be paid by the city.
(K.S.A. 78-111)
§ 1-505 CONDITION OF BONDS.
   Each of the bonds required in §
1-503 shall be conditioned for the faithful performance of duty and all acts
required by the laws of the state and of the city, and for the application and
payment over to the proper persons of all monies or property coming into the
hands of each such officer by virtue of his or her office.
§ 1-506 APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   All bonds given to the city shall be approved as to their form by the City
Attorney and as to surety and sufficiency by the governing body, unless
otherwise provided by the laws of the state.
ARTICLE 6: OPEN RECORDS
Section
   
1-601   Policy
   
1-602   Record custodians
   
1-603   Local Freedom of Information Officers
   
1-604   Public request for access
   
1-605   Facilities for public inspection
   
1-606   Procedures for inspection
   
1-607   Appointment of official custodians
   
1-608   Appointment of Local Freedom of Information Officer
   
1-609   Designation of additional record custodians
   
1-610   Requests to be directed to custodians
   
1-611   Fee administration
   
1-612   Inspection fee
   
1-613   Copying fee
   
1-614   Prepayment of fees
   
1-615   Payment
§ 1-601 POLICY.
   (a)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that all public
records which are made, maintained or kept by or are in the possession of the
city, its officers and employees, shall be open for public inspection as
provided by, and subject to the restrictions imposed by, the State Open Records
Act.
   (b)   Any person, upon request, shall have access to such open public
records for the purpose of inspecting, abstracting or copying such records
while they are in the possession, custody and control of the appointed or
designated record custodian thereof, or his or her designated representative.
§ 1-602 RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All city officers and employees appointed or designated as record
custodians under this article shall: protect public records from damage and
disorganization; prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the
city; provide assistance and information upon request; ensure efficient and
timely action and response to all applications for inspection of public
records; and shall carry out the procedures adopted by this city for inspecting
and copying open public records.
   (b)   The official custodian shall prominently display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public a brochure in the form prescribed by the
Local Freedom of Information Officer that contains basic information about the
rights of a requester, the responsibilities of a public agency and the
procedures for inspecting or obtaining a copy of public records under the State
Open Records Act. The official custodian shall display or distribute or
otherwise make available to the public the brochure at one or more places in
the administrative offices of the city where it is available to members of the
public who request public information in person.
§ 1-603 LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICERS.
   The Local Freedom of Information Officer shall:
   (a)   Prepare and provide educational materials and information concerning
the State Open Records Act;
   (b)   Be available to assist the city and members of the general public to
resolve disputes relating to the State Open Records Act;
   (c)   Respond to inquiries relating to the State Open Records Act; and
   (d)   Establish the requirements for the content, size, shape and other
physical characteristics of a brochure required to be displayed or distributed
or otherwise made available to the public under the State Open Records Act. In
establishing such requirements for the content of the brochure, the Local
Freedom of Information Officer shall include plainly written basic information
about the rights of a requester, the responsibilities of the city and the
procedures for inspecting and obtaining a copy of public records under the Act.
§ 1-604 PUBLIC REQUEST FOR ACCESS.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall establish
office hours during which any person may make a request for access to an open
public record. Such hours shall be no fewer than the hours each business day
the office is regularly open to the public. For any city office not open Monday
through Friday, hours shall be established by the record custodian for each
such day at which time any person may request access to an open public record.
§ 1-605 FACILITIES FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   All city offices keeping and maintaining open public records shall provide
suitable facilities to be used by any person desiring to inspect and/or copy an
open public record. The office of the City Clerk, being the principal record-
keeper of the city, shall be used as the principal office for providing access
to and providing copies of open records to the maximum extent practicable.
Requesters of records shall be referred to the office of the City Clerk except
when the requested records are not in that office and are available in another
city office.
§ 1-606 PROCEDURES FOR INSPECTION.
   Any person requesting access to an open public record for purposes of
inspecting or copying such record, or obtaining a copy thereof, shall abide by
the procedures adopted by the governing body for record inspection and copying,
including those procedures established by record custodians as authorized by
the governing body. Such procedures shall be posted in each city office keeping
and maintaining open public records.
§ 1-607 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIAL CUSTODIANS.
   The following city officers are hereby appointed as official custodians for
purposes of the State Open Records Act and are hereby charged with
responsibility for compliance with that Act with respect to the hereinafter
listed public records:
   (a)   City Clerk. All public records kept and maintained in the City Clerk’s
office and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in this section;
   (b)   City Treasurer. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Treasurer’s office;
   (c)   Fire Chief. All public records not on file in the office of the City
Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Fire Department;
   (d)   City Attorney. All public records not on file in the office of the
City Clerk and kept and maintained in the City Attorney’s office; and
   (e)   Clerk of the Municipal Court. All public records not on file in the
office of the City Clerk and kept and maintained in the Municipal Court.
§ 1-608 APPOINTMENT OF LOCAL FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICER.
   The City Clerk is hereby appointed as the Local Freedom of Information
Officer and charged with all of the duties as set forth in §
1-603 of this article.
§ 1-609 DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL RECORD CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   Each of the official custodians appointed in §
1-607 of this article is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate
officers or employees to serve as record custodian. Such record custodians
shall have such duties and powers as are set out in the state’s Open Records
Act.
   (b)   Whenever an official custodian shall appoint another person as a
record custodian he or she shall notify the City Clerk of such designation and
the City Clerk shall maintain a register of all such designations.
§ 1-610 REQUESTS TO BE DIRECTED TO CUSTODIANS.
   (a)   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a
public record in accordance with the provisions of the state’s Open Records
Act, shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility
for the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
   (b)   Whenever any city officer or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this article is presented with a request for access to, or copy
of, a public record which record the custodian does not have in his or her
possession and for which he or she has not been given responsibility to keep
and maintain, the custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record.
Further, the person making the request shall be informed as to which custodian
the request should be addressed to, if such is known by the custodian receiving
the request.
§ 1-611 FEE ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to provide the Clerk’s office, and the
office of each record custodian, with sufficient cash to enable the making of
change for record fee purposes. Each custodian shall transmit all record fee
monies collected to the City Treasurer not less than monthly. Each custodian
shall maintain duplicates of all records and copy request forms, completed as
to the amount of fee charged and collected, which amounts shall be periodically
audited by the Clerk-Finance Officer and Treasurer of the city.
§ 1-612 INSPECTION FEE.
   (a)   Where a request has been made for inspection of any open public record
which is readily available to the record custodian, there shall be no
inspection fee charged to the requester.
   (b)   In all cases not covered by division (a) above, a record inspection
fee shall be charged a rate per hour per employee engaged in the record search,
with a minimum charge per each such request, as set by policy of the governing
body.
(Res. 310, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 1-613 COPYING FEE.
   (a)   A per page fee shall be charged for photocopying public records, such
fee to cover the cost of labor, materials and equipment.
   (b)   For copying any public records which cannot be reproduced by the
city’s photocopying equipment, the requester shall be charged the actual cost
to the city, including staff time, in reproducing such records.
(Res. 310, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 1-614 PREPAYMENT OF FEES.
   (a)   A record custodian may demand prepayment of the fees established by
this article whenever he or she believes this to be in the best interest of the
city. The prepayment amount shall be an estimate of the inspection and/or
copying charges accrued in fulfilling the record request. Any overage or
underage in the prepayment shall be settled prior to inspection of the
requested record or delivery of the requested copies.
   (b)   Prepayment of inspection and/or copying fees shall be required
whenever, in the best estimate of the record custodian, such fees are estimated
to exceed an amount as set by policy of the governing body.
   (c)   Where prepayment has been demanded by the record custodian, no record
shall be made available to the requester until such prepayment has been made.
§ 1-615 PAYMENT.
   All fees charged under this article shall be paid to the custodian of the
records inspected and/or copied unless the requester has established an
account, for purposes of billing and payment, with the city.
ARTICLE 7: INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS
Section
   
1-701   Purpose and goals
   
1-702   Active funds; designation of depositories; eligible depositories
   
1-703   Definitions
   
1-704   Investment of idle funds
   
1-705   Procedures and restrictions
   
1-706   Custody and safekeeping
   
1-707   Sale or transfer
   
1-708   Interest on time deposits
§ 1-701 PURPOSE AND GOALS.
   (a)   It is the purpose of this statement to set forth the public policies
of the city relating to the investment of public monies, and establish
procedural requirements as to investment management practice.
   (b)   The objective of the investment policy and program of the city shall
be as follows.
      (1)   The safeguarding of all public monies shall be of the highest
priority. Public money shall not be invested or managed in any matter which
would jeopardize the safety of the principal.
      (2)   Consistent with the requirement of safety, the objective of the
investment program shall be to aggressively manage and invest all public monies
to maximize net earnings, consistent with the public responsibility to secure
maximum, safe investment return possible from monies assigned to its
stewardship, to relieve demands on the property tax, and to otherwise reduce
the cost of public services.
§ 1-702 ACTIVE FUNDS; DESIGNATION OF DEPOSITORIES; ELIGIBLE DEPOSITORIES.
   (a)   The governing body shall designate the banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks which shall serve as depositories of its funds.
The Clerk, Treasurer or other city officer or employee having the custody of
city funds shall deposit such funds only at the designated banks, savings and
loan associations and savings banks. Only banks, savings and loan associations
and savings banks that have main or branch offices in Phillips County shall be
designated as official depositories. No such bank, savings bank or savings and
loan association shall be designated as a depository until the city is assured
that it can obtain satisfactory security for its deposits.
   (b)   The Clerk, Treasurer or other city officer or employee depositing
public funds shall deposit all such public funds coming into such person’s
possession in his, her or their name and official title as such officer. If the
governing body fails to designate an official depository or depositories, the
officer thereof having custody of city funds shall deposit such funds with one
or more banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks which have main
or branch offices in the county if satisfactory security can be obtained
therefor and if not then elsewhere. In such event, the officer or employee
shall serve notice in writing on the governing body showing the names and
locations of such banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks where
such funds are deposited, and upon so doing, the officer or employee having
custody of such funds shall not be liable for the loss of any portion thereof
except for official misconduct or for the misappropriation of such funds by the
officer or employee.
   (c)   If eligible banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks
under divisions (a) or (b) above cannot or will not provide an acceptable bid,
which shall include services for the depositing of public funds under this
section, then banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks that have
main or branch offices in any immediately adjoining county may receive deposits
of the city’s active funds, if such banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks have been designated as official depositories under division (a)
above and the city can obtain satisfactory security therefor.
§ 1-703 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANK. Any bank incorporated under the laws of the state or any other state,
or organized under the laws of the United States and which has a main or branch
office in the state.
   BRANCH. Any office within this state, other than the main office, that is
approved by a federal or state supervisory agency at which deposits are
received, checks paid or money lent. BRANCH does not include an automated
teller machine, remote service unit or similar device or a loan production
office.
   INVESTMENT RATE. A rate which is the equivalent yield for United States
government securities having a maturity date as published in the Wall Street
Journal, nearest the maturity date for equivalent maturities. The zero- to 90-
day rate shall be computed on the average effective federal funds rate as
published by the Federal Reserve System for the previous week.
   MAIN OFFICE. The place of business specified in the articles of association,
certificate of authority or similar document, where the business of the
institution is carried on and which is not a branch.
   SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION. Any savings and loan association incorporated
under the laws of the state or any other state, or organized under the laws of
the United States and which has a main or branch office in the state.
   SAVINGS BANK. Any savings bank organized under the laws of the United States
and which has a main or branch office in the state.
(K.S.A. 12-1675a)
§ 1-704 INVESTMENT OF IDLE FUNDS.
   Temporarily idle monies of the city, not currently needed, may in accordance
with the procedure hereinafter described be invested:
   (a)   In temporary notes or no-fund warrants issued by the city;
   (b)   In savings deposits, demand deposits, time deposit, open accounts,
certificates of deposit or time certificates of deposit with maturities of not
more than two years:
      (1)   In banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks which
have main or branch offices located in the city; or
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank is located in the city, then in banks, savings and loan
associations and savings banks, which have main or branch offices in the county
or counties in which all or part of the city is located.
   (c)   In repurchase agreements with:
      (1)   Banks, savings and loan associations and savings banks, which have
main or branch offices located in the city, for direct obligations of, or
obligations that are insured as to principal and interest by, the United States
government or any agency thereof;
      (2)   If no main or branch office of a bank, savings and loan association
or savings bank, is located in the city: if no such bank, savings and loan
association or savings bank having a main or branch office located in the city
is willing to enter into such an agreement with the city at an interest rate
equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g),
and amendments thereto, then such repurchase agreements may be entered into
with banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks which have main or
branch offices in the county or counties in which all or part of the city is
located; or
      (3)   If no bank, savings and loan association or savings bank having a
main or branch office in such county or counties is willing to enter into such
an agreement with the city at an interest rate equal to or greater than the
investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, then
such repurchase agreements may be entered into with banks, savings and loan
associations or savings banks located within the state.
   (d)   In direct obligations of or obligations that are insured as to
principal and interest by the United States or any agency thereof, not
including mortgage-backed securities with maturities as the governing body
shall determine, but not exceeding two years. Such investment transactions
shall only be conducted with banks, savings and loan associations and savings
banks; the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Missouri; or with primary
government securities dealers which report to the market report division of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or any broker-dealer engaged in the business
of selling government securities which is registered in compliance with the
requirements of §§ 15 or 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (being 15
U.S.C. § 78o and 15 U.S.C. § 78o-5, respectively) and registered pursuant to
K.S.A. 17-12a401, and amendments thereto;
   (e)   In the Municipal Investment Pool Fund established in K.S.A. 12-1677a,
and amendments thereto;
   (f)   In the investments authorized and in accordance with the conditions
prescribed in K.S.A. 12-1677b, and amendments thereto;
   (g)   In multiple municipal client investment pools managed by the trust
departments of banks which have main or branch offices located in county or
counties where city is located or with trust companies incorporated under the
laws of this state which have contracted to provide trust services under the
provisions of K.S.A. 9-2107, and amendments thereto, with banks which have main
or branch offices located in the county or counties in which the city is
located. Public monies invested under this division (g) shall be secured in the
same manner as provided for under K.S.A. 9-1402, and amendments thereto. Pooled
investments of public monies made by trust departments under this division (g)
shall be subject to the same terms, conditions and limitations as are
applicable to the municipal investment pool established by K.S.A. 12-1677a, and
amendments thereto;
   (h)   Municipal bonds or other obligations issued by any municipality of the
state as defined in K.S.A. 10-1101, and amendments thereto, which are general
obligations of the municipality issuing the same;
   (i)   The investments authorized in divisions (d), (e), (f), (g) or (h)
above shall be utilized only if the banks, savings and loan associations and
savings banks eligible for investments authorized in division (b) above, cannot
or will not make the investments authorized in division (b) above available to
the city at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as
defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto; or
   (j)   In selecting a depository pursuant to division (b) above, if a bank,
savings and loan association or savings bank eligible for an investment deposit
thereunder has an office located in the city and such financial institution
will make such deposits available to the city at interest rates equal to or
greater than the investment rate, as defined in K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and
amendments thereto, and such financial institution otherwise qualifies for such
deposit, the governing body shall select one or more of such eligible financial
institutions for deposit of funds pursuant to this section. If no such
financial institution qualifies for such deposits, the city shall select for
such deposits one or more eligible banks, savings and loan associations or
savings banks which have offices in the county or counties in which all or a
part of the city is located which will make such deposits available to the city
at interest rates equal to or greater than the investment rate, as defined in
K.S.A. 12-1675a(g), and amendments thereto, and which otherwise qualify for
such deposits.
(K.S.A. 12-1675)
§ 1-705 PROCEDURES AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Clerk shall periodically report to the governing body as to the
amount of money available for investment and the period of time such amounts
will be available for investment, and shall submit such recommendations as
deemed necessary for the efficient and safe management of city finances. The
recommendations of the City Clerk shall provide for an investment program which
shall so limit the amounts invested and shall schedule the maturities of
investments so that the city will, at all times, have sufficient monies
available on demand deposit to assure prompt payment of all city obligations.
§ 1-706 CUSTODY AND SAFEKEEPING.
   Securities purchased pursuant to this article shall be under the care of the
City Treasurer and the City Clerk and shall be held in the custody of a state
or national bank or trust company, or shall be kept by such officers in a
safety deposit box of the city in a bank or trust company. Securities in the
original or receipt form held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall
be held in the name of the city, and their redemption, transfer or withdrawal
shall be permitted only upon the written instruction of the city officers.
Securities not held in the custody of a bank or trust company shall be
personally deposited by such officer in a safety deposit box in the name of the
city in a bank or trust company, access to which shall be permitted only in the
personal presence and under the signature of two of the abovementioned
officers.
§ 1-707 SALE OR TRANSFER.
   If, in order to maintain sufficient monies on demand deposit in any fund as
provided in §
1-705 of this article, it becomes necessary to transfer or sell any securities
of such funds, the officers specified in § 1-706 of this article may transfer
said securities to any other fund or funds in which there are temporarily idle
monies, or shall sell such securities, and for such purpose they shall have
authority to make any necessary written direction, endorsement or assignment
for and on behalf of the city.
§ 1-708 INTEREST ON TIME DEPOSITS.
   The City Clerk shall deposit the interest earned on invested idle funds to
the General Fund, unless otherwise required or authorized by law.
ARTICLE 8: PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION
Section
   
1-801   Creation
   
1-802   Composition
   
1-803   Purpose, powers and functions
   
1-804   Support services
   
1-805   Further action
   
1-806   Severability
§ 1-801 CREATION.
   Under the authority of the State Public Building Commission Act (K.S.A. 12-
1757 et seq., as used in this article, the “Act”), there is hereby created by
the governing body a municipal corporation to be known as the “City of
Phillipsburg, Kansas Public Building Commission” (the “PBC”).
(Ord. 1366, passed 11-15-2010)
§ 1-802 COMPOSITION.
   The PBC shall be composed of seven members (the “members”). The members of
the governing body and the Mayor are hereby appointed as members and the terms
of office of the members shall be co-terminus with such members’ terms of
office as members of the governing body, or as Mayor, respectively, and terms
of office for such future members shall be co-terminus with such members’ terms
of office as members of the governing body, or as Mayor, respectively. In the
event that the PBC provides buildings or structures that are leased to
governmental entities other than the city, the composition of the PBC shall be
modified by subsequent ordinance of the governing body to conform to the
requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 1366, passed 11-15-2010)
§ 1-803 PURPOSE, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS.
   The PBC is created for the purposes of, and shall have the powers and shall
perform the functions set forth in, the Act, as may be amended or supplemented,
including by home rule action of the city. The governing body, by ordinance or
charter ordinance hereafter taking effect, shall have the authority to limit,
expand or otherwise alter the purposes, powers functions of the PBC.
(Ord. 1366, passed 11-15-2010)
§ 1-804 SUPPORT SERVICES.
   Unless otherwise approved by the governing body, the city administrative
staff shall provide administrative services to the PBC and the city’s financial
advisor, bond counsel and City Attorney shall provide services to the PBC.
(Ord. 1366, passed 11-15-2010)
§ 1-805 FURTHER ACTION.
   The PBC shall have the authority to adopt bylaws, a seal, resolutions or
other official actions authorized by the Act and not inconsistent with the
provisions of this article to govern its actions.
(Ord. 1366, passed 11-15-2010)
§ 1-806 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this article is deemed or ruled unconstitutional or
otherwise illegal or invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
illegality or invalidation shall not affect any other provision of this
article. This article shall be enforced and construed as if such illegal or
invalid provision had not been contained herein.
(Ord. 1366, passed 11-15-2010)
ARTICLE 9: AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD
Section
   
1-901   Appointment; members; terms
   
1-902   Meetings
   
1-903   Duties
§ 1-901 APPOINTMENT; MEMBERS; TERMS.
   The Mayor shall appoint, with the approval of the City Council, an Airport
Advisory Board for the Municipal Airport of the city. The Airport Advisory
Board shall consist of five members, residents of the Phillips County, two of
which must be licensed operators of aircraft. The Chairperson of the Airport
Committee of the City Council shall appoint a Chairperson of the Airport
Advisory Board. One shall be appointed for a one-year term, two shall be
appointed for two-year terms and two shall be appointed for three-year terms.
Thereafter, all Board members shall be appointed for three-year terms.
(Res. 281, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 1-902 MEETINGS.
   The Board shall meet at such time as designated by the members.
(Res. 281, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 1-903 DUTIES.
   The duties of the Board are to further the progress, planning and operation
of the airport and to advise the Council of such matters.
(Res. 281, passed 3-2-2020)
ARTICLE 10: LAND BANK
Section
   
1-1001   Creation; purpose
   
1-1002   Definitions
   
1-1003   Land Bank Board of Trustees; appointment; terms; dissolution
   
1-1004   Officers; organization
   
1-1005   Board of Trustees; powers and duties
   
1-1006   Acquired property
   
1-1007   Budget; records; report
§ 1-1001 CREATION; PURPOSE.
   The Phillipsburg Land Bank is hereby established pursuant to K.S.A. 12-5901
et seq. The Phillipsburg Land Bank is an independent agency and instrumentality
of the city with the primary responsibility and authority to efficiently
acquire, hold, manage, transform and convey surplus city properties and other
abandoned, tax foreclosed or otherwise underutilized or distressed properties
in order to convert these properties for productive use.
(Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 1-1002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Phillipsburg, Kansas.
   BANK. The Phillipsburg Land Bank established pursuant to this article.
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Phillipsburg Land Bank.
   GOVERNING BODY. The governing body of the City of Phillipsburg, Kansas.
(Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 1-1003 LAND BANK BOARD OF TRUSTEES; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; DISSOLUTION.
   (a)   There is hereby established a Land Bank Board of Trustees. The Board
shall be composed of seven members. The six City Council members and Mayor will
serve on the Land Bank Board of Trustees. The term of these seven members will
run consecutively with their term of office. After this initial term, any
changes to the membership of the Land Bank Board of Trustees must be approved
by the City Council.
   (b)   Primary city staff support to the Board will come from the City Clerk,
or her or his designee. City staff will provide technical and professional
support for Bank operations; additional support may be contracted as deemed
necessary.
   (c)   The Bank may be dissolved by ordinance of the governing body, without
cause. In such case, all property of the Bank shall be transferred to and held
by the city and may be disposed of as otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 1-1004 OFFICERS; ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   The Board shall select, annually, from its membership, a Chairperson,
a Vice Chairperson, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Treasurer shall be bonded
in such amounts as the governing body may require.
   (b)   The Board may appoint such officers, agents and employees as it may
require for the performance of its duties, and shall determine the
qualifications and duties and fix the compensation of such officers, agents and
employees.
   (c)   The Board shall fix the time and place at which its meetings shall be
held. Meetings shall be held within the city and shall be subject to the
state’s Open Meeting Act, K.S.A. 75- 4317 et seq., and amendments thereto.
   (d)   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. No action of the Board shall be binding unless taken at a meeting
at which at least a quorum is present.
   (e)   The members of the Board shall be subject to the provisions of the
laws of the state which relate to conflicts of interest of city officers and
employees, including, but not limited to, K.S.A. 75-4301a et seq., and
amendments thereto.
   (f)   Subject to the provisions of the state’s Tort Claims Act, K.S.A. 75-
6101 et seq., and amendments thereto, if any action at law or equity, or other
legal proceeding, shall be brought against any member of the Board for any act
or omission arising out of the performance of duties as a member of the Board,
such member shall be indemnified in whole and held harmless by the Board for
any judgment or decree entered against such member and, further, shall be
defended at the cost and expense of the Bank in any such proceeding.
(Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 1-1005 BOARD OF TRUSTEES; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Land Bank Board of Trustees shall have the following powers and duties:
   (a)   To sue and be sued;
   (b)   To enter into contracts;
   (c)   To appoint and remove staff and provide for the compensation thereof;
   (d)   To acquire, by purchase, gift or devise, and convey any real property,
including easements and reversionary interest, and personal property, subject
to the provisions of this article and state law. Any property acquired by the
city or any other city or taxing subdivision within the county may be
transferred to the Bank. The Board may accept or refuse to accept any property
authorized to be transferred pursuant to this article or state law. The
transfer of any property pursuant to this division (d) shall not be subject to
any bidding requirements and shall be exempt from any provisions of law
requiring a public sale;
   (e)   The fee simple title to any real estate which is sold to the county,
in accordance with the provisions of K.S.A. 79-2803 and 79-2804, and amendments
thereto, and upon acceptance by the Board may be transferred to the Bank by a
good and sufficient deed by the County Clerk upon a written order from the
Board of County Commissioners;
   (f)   To rebate all or any portion thereof, the taxes on any property sold
or conveyed by the Bank;
   (g)   To exercise any other power which may be delegated to the Bank by the
governing body; and
   (h)   To exercise any other incidental power which is necessary to carry out
the purposes of the Land Bank and state law.
(Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 1-1006 ACQUIRED PROPERTY.
   The Board shall assume possession and control of an acquired property by it
under this article or state law and shall hold and administer such property. In
the administration of property, the Board shall:
   (a)   Manage, maintain and protect or temporarily use for a public purpose
such property in the manner the Board deems appropriate;
   (b)   Compile and maintain a written inventory of all such property. The
inventory shall be available for public inspection and distribution at all
times;
   (c)   Study, analyze and evaluate potential, present and future uses for
such property which would provide for the effective reutilization of such
property;
   (d)   Plan for and use the Board’s best efforts to consummate the sale or
other disposition of such property at such times and upon such terms and
conditions deemed appropriate;
   (e)   Establish and maintain records and accounts reflecting all
transactions, expenditures and revenues in relation to the Bank’s activities,
including separate itemizations of all transactions, expenditures and revenues
concerning each individual parcel of property acquired; and
   (f)   No less than 30 days prior to the sale of any property owned by the
Bank, publish a notice in the official city newspaper announcing such sale.
(Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 1-1007 BUDGET; RECORDS; REPORT.
   (a)   The Bank shall be subject to the provisions of the Cash Basis Law,
K.S.A. 10-1101 et seq., and amendments thereto.
   (b)   The budget of the Bank shall be prepared, adopted and published as
provided by law for other political subdivisions of the state. No budget shall
be adopted by the Board until it has been reviewed and approved by the
governing body. If the governing body elects not to ratify the budget, it must
reject the plan in its entirety and remand it back to the Board with specific
recommendations for reconsideration.
   (c)   The Board shall keep accurate accounts of all receipts and
disbursements. The receipts and disbursements of the Board shall be audited
yearly by a certified or licensed public accountant and the report of the audit
shall be included in and become part of the annual report of the Board.
   (d)   All records and accounts shall be subject to public inspection
pursuant to K.S.A. 45-216 et seq., and amendments thereto.
   (e)   Any moneys of the Bank which are not immediately required for the
purposes of the Bank shall be invested in the manner prescribed by K.S.A. 12-
1675, and amendments thereto.
   (f)   The Bank shall make an annual report to the governing body on or
before January 31 of each year, showing receipts and disbursements from all
funds under its control and showing all property transactions occurring in each
year. Such report shall include an inventory of all property held by the Bank.
A copy of such inventory shall also be published in the official city newspaper
on or before January 31 of each year.
   (g)   The Bank shall be subject to the statutory requirements for the
deposit of public money as provided in K.S.A. 9-1401 et seq., and amendments
thereto.
   (h)   The Board, without competitive bidding, may sell any property acquired
by the Board at such times, to such persons, and upon such terms and
conditions, and subject to such restrictions and covenants deemed necessary or
appropriate to assure the property’s effective reutilization.
   (i)   The sale of any real property by the Board, under the provisions of
this article or state law, on which there are delinquent special assessments to
finance public improvements shall be conditioned upon the approval of the
governing body.
   (j)   The Board, for the purpose of land disposition, may consolidate,
assemble or subdivide individual parcels of property acquired by the Bank.
   (k)   Until sold or otherwise disposed of by the Bank, and except for
special assessments levied by the city to finance public improvements, any
property acquired by the Bank shall be exempt from the payment of ad valorem
taxes levied by the state and any other political or taxing subdivision of the
state.
   (l)   Except for special assessments levied by the city to finance public
improvements, when the Board acquires property pursuant to this article and
state law, the County Treasurer shall remove from the tax rolls all taxes,
assessments, charges, penalties and interest that are due and payable on the
property at the time of acquisition by the Board.
   (m)   Property held by the Bank shall remain liable for special assessments
levied by the city for public improvements, but no payment thereof shall be
required until such property is sold or otherwise conveyed by the Bank.
   (n)   The governing body may abate part or all of any special assessments
which it has levied on property acquired by the Bank, and the Bank and the
governing body may enter into agreements related thereto. Any special
assessments that are abated shall be removed from the tax rolls by the County
Treasurer as of the effective date of the abatement.
   (o)   Any moneys derived from the sale of property by the Bank shall be
retained by the Bank for the purposes and operations thereof; provided,
however, that, the Board may use all or part of the proceeds from such sale to
reimburse the city for delinquent special assessments due on such property.
   (p)   The Board may establish separate neighborhood or city advisory
committees consisting of persons living or owning property within the city or
neighborhood. In the case of neighborhood advisory committees, the Board shall
determine the boundaries of each neighborhood. In the absence of a resolution
by the Board providing otherwise, each Advisory Committee shall consist of not
less than five, nor more than nine persons, to be appointed by the Board for
two years, overlapping terms. The Board shall consult with each Advisory
Committee as needed to review the operations and activities of the Bank and to
receive the advice of the members of the Advisory Committee concerning any
matter which comes before the committees.
(Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-2018)
CHAPTER II: ANIMAL CONTROL AND REGULATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   DOGS
      
3.   RESERVED
      
4.   OTHER ANIMALS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
2-101   Definitions
   
2-102   Animal Control Officer; duty to impound; citation alternative
   
2-103   Same; capture/destruction
   
2-104   Same; right of entry; unlawful interference
   
2-105   Municipal pound established
   
2-106   Breaking pound
   
2-107   Reserved
   
2-108   Reserved
   
2-109   Keeping animals
   
2-110   Animal traps
   
2-111   Nuisance; animal activities prohibited
   
2-112   Noisy animals
   
2-113   Animal confines; shelters
   
2-113A   Same; stockyards; commercial holding pens
   
2-114   Death of animals
   
2-115   Vicious animals
   
2-116   Running at large
   
2-117   Impoundment; fee; notice; record
   
2-118   Redemption of impounded animals
   
2-119   Impoundment of rabies suspects
   
2-120   Animals bitten by rabid animals
   
2-121   Vehicular accidents involving animals
   
2-122   Emergency; proclamation
   
2-123   Kennel licenses
§ 2-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Includes the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person
responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for its
proper care over a 48-hour-period.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The facility or facilities operated by the city or its
authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals under the
authority of this chapter or state law.
   ANIMALS. All vertebrate and invertebrate animals, such as, but not limited
to, bovine cattle, horses and other equines, hogs, goats, dogs, cats, rabbits,
sheep, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons and other fowl or wild animals,
reptiles, fish, bees or birds that have been tamed, domesticated or captivated.
   AT LARGE. To be outside of a fence or other enclosure that restrains the
animals to a particular premises or not under the control, by leash or lead, of
the owner or other authorized person capable of restraining the animal. Animals
tethered to a stationary object within range of public thoroughfares are deemed
to be AT LARGE.
   BITE. Any actual or suspected abrasion, scratch, puncture, tear, bruise or
piercing of the skin, caused by any animal, which is actually or suspected of
being contaminated or inoculated with the saliva from the animal, directly or
indirectly, regardless of the health of the animal causing such bite.
   CAT. Any member of the species felis catus, regardless of sex.
   DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal deemed to be dangerous or vicious
per §
2-115 of this article.
   DOG. Any member of the species canis familiaris, regardless of sex.
   FOWL. All animals that are included in the zoological class aves, which
shall include, but not limited to, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guineas and
pigeons.
   HARBOR. Any person who shall allow any animal to habitually remain or lodge
or to be fed within his or her home, store, yard, enclosure or place of
business or any other premises where he or she resides or controls.
   HUMANE LIVE ANIMAL TRAP. Any cage trap that upon activation encloses an
animal without placing any physical restraint upon any part of the body of such
animal.
   HUMANELY EUTHANIZE. The proper injection of a substance that quickly and
painlessly terminates the life of an animal, or any other method approved by
the American Veterinary Medical Association or the American Humane Society.
   IMMEDIATE CONTROL. The regulation and supervision by a competent person so
that an animal is unable to run or get loose at will.
   KENNEL. Any establishment, commercial or otherwise, maintained for breeding,
rearing, grooming, boarding or otherwise harboring in an enclosure in one
location only, more than three dogs.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, but is not limited to cattle, horses, goats, sheep or
other animals commonly regarded or used as farm or ranch animals.
   NEUTERED. Any male or female cat or dog that has been permanently rendered
sterile.
   OWN. Includes own, keep, harbor, shelter, manage, possess or have a part
interest in any animal. If a minor OWNS any such animal subject to the
provisions of this chapter, the head of the household of which such minor is a
member shall be deemed to OWN such animal for the purposes of this chapter.
   OWNER. The one who owns, or his or her employee, agent or other competent
person into whose charge an animal has been placed by the actual owner as
described in the definition for “own” above.
   VACCINATION. An injection of a vaccine, approved by the State Board of
Public Health, and administered by a licensed veterinarian for the purpose of
immunizing an animal against rabies.
   VETERINARIAN. A doctor of veterinary medicine licensed by the State of
Kansas.
§ 2-102 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; DUTY TO IMPOUND; CITATION ALTERNATIVE.
   (a)   There is hereby created the position of Animal Control Officer for the
city and such officer shall be charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
Any person employed by the city as an Animal Control Officer and commissioned
by the City Council of the city shall have such powers and authority as allowed
by law in the enforcement of this chapter. All Animal Control Officers shall be
subject to the supervision and direction of the Mayor of the city.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) below, it shall be the duty of the
Animal Control Officer to take up and impound all animals found in the city in
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   As an alternative to the provisions of division (b) above, the County
Sheriff or the Animal Control Officer may issue a citation to the owner,
harborer or keeper of an animal in violation of this chapter, and the person
receiving the citation shall, within ten days, appear in the Municipal Court of
the city to answer the charged violation of this chapter.
§ 2-103 SAME; CAPTURE/DESTRUCTION.
   When deemed necessary by the County Sheriff or the Animal Control Officer
for the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city, such officers
and/or their agents may:
   (a)   Place a humane trap on public or a requesting resident’s property for
the purpose of capturing any animal defined in this chapter as creating a
nuisance in the city;
   (b)   Use any tranquilizer guns, humane traps or other suitable devices to
subdue and capture any animal that is deemed by the Animal Control Officer, in
his or her discretion, to be of a danger to itself or to the public health and
safety; or
   (c)   Use firearms or other suitable weapons to destroy any rabid animal,
any vicious animal as defined in §
2-115 of this article or any animal creating a nuisance as defined in §
2-111 of this article, where such animal is impossible or impractical to catch,
capture or tranquilize.
§ 2-104 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY; UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   (a)   The Animal Control Officer or the County Sheriff shall have the right
of entry upon any private unenclosed lots or lands for the purpose of
collecting any animal whose presence thereupon is a violation of this chapter,
to the extent allowed by law.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the Animal
Control Officer in the exercise of his or her duties.
§ 2-105 MUNICIPAL POUND ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   A municipal pound shall be established to carry out the provisions of
this chapter. Such a pound may be operated by a contractor and all services
required herein may be provided by a contractor.
   (b)   When so contracted, the pound shall have the following services and
facilities as a minimum:
      (1)   Adequate pickup and impounding of all stray and ownerless dogs and
cats and animals otherwise in violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Group holding facilities for stray, ownerless and unvaccinated
animals impounded for violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Individual isolation facilities for sick, biting, rabid and
suspected rabid animals; and
      (4)   Facilities for the humane destruction of animals.
§ 2-106 BREAKING POUND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a duly authorized officer of
the city to break or attempt to break open the pound, or any enclosure used for
impounding dogs or to take or let out any dog placed therein by any officer of
the city or to take or attempt to take from any officer of the city any dog
taken up by him or her under the provisions of this article, or in any manner
to interfere with or hinder any such officer in chasing, taking up or
impounding any dog.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-107 RESERVED.
§ 2-108 RESERVED.
§ 2-109 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, occupant or person in
charge of any premises in the city to possess and maintain any animal or fowl
within the city or permit to be maintained thereon any stable, shed, pen or
other place where horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats or swine, or
undomesticated animals are kept.
   (b)   This provision shall not apply to:
      (1)   The maintaining of a stockyard or sales barn for the loading,
unloading, temporary detention and sale of such livestock, if the location of
such stockyard or sales barn does not otherwise violate the zoning ordinances
of the city;
      (2)   The maintaining of dogs which are regulated by
Article 2 of this chapter;
      (3)   The maintaining of non-poisonous and non-vicious animals and fowl
which are commonly kept as household pets, such as cats, hamsters, rabbits,
parakeets and comparable animals, when kept as household pets and in a safe and
sanitary manner in accordance with §
2-113 of this article; and
      (4)   The transporting of animals through the city by ordinary and
customary means.
§ 2-110 ANIMAL TRAPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, place, set out or deploy any
animal trap aboveground, which makes use of a spring gun, spring jaws, clamping
devices, cutting or stabbing mechanism, or any other devices that will damage
or severely injure any animal when caught or trapped by the device or trap;
except that nothing herein contained shall prohibit the use of animal traps
that are so designed to trap and hold animals without injuring the animals.
§ 2-111 NUISANCE; ANIMAL ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to keep or maintain
such animal in the city so as to constitute a nuisance.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, NUISANCE is defined as any animal
which:
      (1)   Molests or interferes with persons in the public right-of-way;
      (2)   Attacks or injures persons or other domestic animals;
      (3)   Damages public or private property other than that of its owner or
harborer by its activities or with its excrement;
      (4)   Scatters refuse that is bagged or otherwise contained; or
      (5)   Causes any condition that threatens or endangers the health or
well-being of persons or other animals.
   (c)   If a summons is issued charging violation of this provision, a
subpoena shall also be issued to the complainant to testify to the nuisance
under oath.
§ 2-112 NOISY ANIMALS.
   The keeping or harboring of any animal which by loud, frequent and habitual
barking, howling, yelping, mewing, roaring or screeching shall disturb the
peace of any neighborhood is hereby prohibited. It shall be the duty of any
person harboring or keeping such loud or noisy animal or animals to abate the
condition, and if he or she fails to do so, the city may abate it by taking up,
impounding and/or disposing of the animal at the expense of the owner.
§ 2-113 ANIMAL CONFINES; SHELTERS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any animal in
any yard, structure or area that is not clean, dry and sanitary, free from
debris and offensive odors that annoy any neighbor, and devoid of rodents and
vermin.
   (b)   Excrement shall be removed at least once each week from any animal
shelter, pen or yard area where animals are kept, or more often if necessary to
prevent or control odors, fly breeding or rodent infestation. If excrement is
stored on the premises by any animal owner, it shall be stored in adequate
containers with fly-tight lids, and all such stored or accumulated wastes shall
be disposed of at least once each week.
   (c)   All animal shelters, pens and yards shall be so located that adequate
drainage is obtained, normal drying occurs, and standing water is not present.
   (d)   All animal shelters and board fences confining animals shall be
maintained in good repair, and all animal shelters and board fences confining
animals subject to residential and commercial classification shall be protected
from deterioration by painting or comparable treatment.
   (e)   Barbed wire fences and electrically charged fences shall not be
permitted for animal confines except on properties in which an agricultural
classification permit is held or where the barbed wire fence or electrically
charged fence is protected by an exterior fence.
   (f)   All premises in which animals are kept shall be subject to inspection
by the Animal Control Officer, the County Sheriff or Public Health Official. If
the Officer or Official determines from such inspection that the premises are
not being maintained in a clean and sanitary manner, he or she shall notify the
owner of the animals in writing to correct the sanitation deficiencies within
24 hours after notice is served on the owner. Any animal kept under any
condition that could endanger the public or animal health or create a health
nuisance may be impounded. Animals shall be released after fees are paid and
cause for impoundment has been corrected.
§ 2-113A SAME; STOCKYARDS; COMMERCIAL HOLDING PENS.
   Animal shelters owned or operated as a stockyard or commercial holding pen
shall be adequately maintained and cleaned as often as is necessary, as
determined by the Health Officer, to control fly breeding or to control other
conditions adversely affecting the public health including the following:
   (a)   Collected fecal material and other solid organic waste shall be
disposed of at a sanitary landfill, fertilizer processing plant or by proper
dispersal on land used for agricultural purposes;
   (b)   Grain or protein feed shall be stored in tightly covered rodent-proof
metal containers or rodent-proof bins;
   (c)   Premises subject to the terms of this section shall be maintained free
of rodent harborage and in accordance with Chapter VIII, Article 6 of this code
of ordinances;
   (d)   Wherever reasonable, use shall be made of anti-coagulant rodenticides
for the control of rodents and organo-phosphorus insecticides for the control
of flies or any other effective chemical means for the control of rodents and
flies;
   (e)   Wherever reasonable, use shall be made of soil sterilants and
herbicides or other effective means for the control of weeds and grass around
structures and buildings;
   (f)   Enclosures including fences where animals such as horses, cows, sheep
and goats are maintained shall be constructed in a manner, using dimension
lumber materials, or other effective means to prevent such animals from
breaking out or causing hazard to persons or property;
   (g)   The solid wastes accumulated from the cleaning of animal shelters and
holding pens maintained by persons subject to a residential classification
permit as herein provided shall be stored in metal containers, with tight-
fitting metal lids, and all such stored or accumulated wastes shall be disposed
of at least once each week;
   (h)   Holding lots, pens and floors of sheds and buildings where animals are
held and which are maintained by persons subject to a commercial, industrial or
agricultural classification permit according to the terms of this chapter shall
be surfaced with concrete or asphaltic materials and that the drainage system
of such surfaced areas shall include proper retaining walls and traps to
control the waste from draining into watercourses and such drainage system
shall be subject to the approval of the Health Officer. The Health Officer
shall waive this standard for domestic animal holding operations where such
animal holding is longer than 24 hours for any domestic animal involved or
where dirt lots are more appropriate to the proper care of cattle, horses or
sheep; and
   (i)   Solid wastes accumulated from the cleaning of animal shelters and
holding pens maintained by persons subject to a commercial, industrial or
agricultural permit according to the terms of this chapter shall be stored on
concrete slabs or other facilities, such as dirt lots on which is stockpiled
manure with an exposed perimeter as approved by the Health Officer; provided,
that all solid waste shall be properly disposed of at least once each week or
as may be approved by the Health Officer.
§ 2-114 DEATH OF ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be disposed of by the owner or keepers within 24
hours of the animal’s death, by burial, incineration in a facility approved by
the Animal Control Officer, by rendering or by other lawful means approved by
the Animal Control Officer. No dead animal shall be dumped on any public or
private property.
§ 2-115 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (a)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, possess or
harbor a vicious animal within the city. Impoundment of animals whose owners
have been cited for violation of this section shall be at the discretion of the
Animal Control Officer. If the animal presents a clear and present danger to
the public health or safety, it shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer
or his or her agent to impound such animal.
   (b)   Defined. For purposes of this chapter a VICIOUS ANIMAL shall include:
      (1)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings or domestic animals;
      (2)   Any animal that attacks a human being or domestic animal without
provocation;
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting or any animal trained for fighting; or
      (4)   Any animal that is urged by its owner or harborer to attack, or
whose owner or harborer threatens to provoke such animal to attack, the County
Sheriff while engaged in the performance of official duty.
   (c)   Complaint.
      (1)   Whenever a sworn complaint is filed in the Municipal Court against
the owner of an animal alleging that such animal is vicious and in violation of
this section, the Municipal Judge shall hold a hearing to determine whether or
not the animal is vicious within the meaning of this section and thereby in
violation of this section. The owner of the animal shall be notified in writing
of the time and place of the hearing at least one week before the hearing.
      (2)   In making a determination, the Municipal Judge shall consider the
following:
         (A)   The seriousness of the attack or bite;
         (B)   Past history of attacks or bites;
         (C)   Likelihood of attacks or bites in the future;
         (D)   The condition and circumstances in which the animal is kept or
confined; and
         (E)   Other factors that may reasonably relate to the determination of
whether or not the animal is vicious.
      (3)   The Municipal Judge shall order the impoundment, the muzzling in
accordance with division (d) below, and/or the confinement of the animal
accused of being in violation of this section in a manner and location that
will ensure that it is no threat to persons or other animals pending the
outcome of the hearing. If such impoundment, muzzling or otherwise safe
confinement is not possible or if prior court orders to restrain such animal
have gone unheeded, the Municipal Judge may order the animal immediately
destroyed.
   (d)   Vicious dogs to be muzzled. It shall be the duty of every owner,
keeper or harborer of any dog in the city, which dog is vicious or has been
known to bite, chase or run after any person or animal in the streets, alleys
or any public place in the city, to keep the same muzzled with a good and
sufficient wire or leather muzzle, securely fastened so as to wholly prevent
such dog from biting any animal or person until such time as a determination
has been made by the court as to whether the dog is vicious or not. Any person
owning, keeping or harboring any dog within the city limits contrary to this
section shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
   (e)   Immediate destruction. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent the Animal Control Officer or County Sheriff from taking whatever
action is reasonably necessary to protect himself or herself or members of the
public from injury or danger, including immediate destruction of any vicious
animal without notice to the owner.
   (f)   Release of. If a complaint has been filed in the Municipal Court
against the owner of an impounded animal for a charge under this section, the
animal shall not be released except on the order of the Municipal Judge, who
may also direct the owner to pay all impounding fees in addition to any
penalties for violation of this chapter. The Municipal Judge may, upon making a
finding that an animal is vicious or that it represents a clear and present
danger to the citizens or to other animals in the community, order the animal
to be destroyed in a humane manner by the animal shelter. Surrender of an
animal by the owner thereof to the Animal Control Officer does not relieve or
render the owner immune from the decision of the Court, nor to the fees and
fines which may result from a violation of this section.
§ 2-116 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully allow any animal or fowl
under his or her control to be or to run at large within the city. Any animal
or fowl found at large shall be impounded as provided in §§
2-117 or
2-207 (dogs).
§ 2-117 IMPOUNDMENT; FEE; NOTICE; RECORD.
   (a)   (1)   The Animal Control Officer or County Sheriff shall impound any
animal or fowl found at large in the city or constituting a nuisance or
otherwise in violation of this chapter in a suitable pound or enclosure
provided or contracted for by the city.
      (2)   The impounding officer shall make diligent inquiry as to the owner
of the animal and shall notify the owner thereof of such impoundment as soon as
reasonably possible.
   (b)   The city shall be entitled to receive from such owner an impoundment
fee of $25 per day for the city-owned facility. If the animal must be taken to
the veterinary clinic, then the fees charged by the veterinary clinic will be
paid by the owner of the animal.
   (c)   In case the identity of the owner of the impounded animal or fowl
cannot be ascertained, the Animal Control Officer or County Sheriff shall, upon
taking any such animal into custody and impounding the same, make a record
thereof, with a description of the animal and the date and place taken into
custody and the place of impounding, and shall thereupon immediately post a
public notice stating that the animal, describing the same with the date and
place of taking, has been taken up, and that unless the charges of impounding
the same, together with any license fees due and unpaid, are paid within three
business days from the date of the notice, that the animal will be disposed of
as provided in this code.
   (d)   The Animal Control Officer shall each month submit a report to the
person designated by the city showing the number of animals impounded and
disposed of, and the fees collected pursuant to this article and shall pay
those fees to the City Clerk for credit to the General Operating Fund.
(Res. 290, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 2-118 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   At any time before the sale or destruction of any animal impounded under the
provisions of this article, except for animals impounded under §§
2-115 (vicious) and
2-119 (rabid) of this article, the owner thereof may redeem the animal by
paying the Animal Control Officer or any person in charge, the impounding fee
and all costs incurred as a result of such impoundment.
§ 2-119 IMPOUNDMENT OF RABIES SUSPECTS.
   (a)   Any dog or cat which is suspected of having rabies or any dog or cat
which has bitten a human being and has thereby caused a laceration of the skin
of such human being, shall be seized and confined in the city pound or in a
veterinary hospital for a period of ten days. In lieu of such confinement, the
owner of any dog or cat which has been properly immunized and licensed may be
permitted to confine such dog or cat away from the public for a like term.
   (b)   Any dog or cat bitten by a known rabid animal shall be seized and
confined as provided in division (a) above.
   (c)   All expenses incurred during the period of confinement of any dog or
cat in a veterinary hospital as required by this section, including any
pathological studies required for proper diagnosis, shall be paid by the owner
of the dog or cat.
   (d)   No dog or cat suspected of having rabies shall be removed from the
city until released from confinement by the city’s Health Office after
veterinary examination.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-120 ANIMALS BITTEN BY RABID ANIMALS.
   (a)   Whenever a dog, cat or other animal is bitten by a rabid animal or an
animal later proved to have been rabid, it shall be the duty of the owner of
the animal that is bitten, to report that fact to the local Health Officer and/
or the County Sheriff.
   (b)   It shall also be the duty of the owner of the bitten animal to either
destroy or have his or her bitten animal destroyed unless:
      (1)   The animal that was bitten had been vaccinated against rabies at
least three weeks before being bitten and has a current vaccination;
      (2)   If the bitten animal has a current vaccination, it shall be
confined for 90 days;
      (3)   The bitten animal shall be released from confinement only upon
written order from the local Health Officer, who declares the animal to be free
of rabies; and
      (4)   If the animal is found to have contracted rabies during
confinement, it shall be properly disposed of.
§ 2-121 VEHICULAR ACCIDENTS INVOLVING ANIMALS.
   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes any animal shall
stop at once and shall immediately report such injury or death to the owner of
such animal, or in the event that the owner cannot be ascertained, and located,
the operator shall at once report the accident to the Animal Control Officer or
County Sheriff.
§ 2-122 EMERGENCY; PROCLAMATION.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized, whenever in his or her opinion, the danger
to the public safety from rabid animals is made imminent to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning any animal in the city to confine the
animal in a good and sufficient enclosure from which the animal cannot escape,
or fasten such animal by means of a chain on the premises where the owner may
reside, for such time as may be specified in such proclamation. Any animal not
confined during such time may be disposed of wherever found by the County
Sheriff or the Animal Control Officer of the city. The owner of such animal
shall be prosecuted for such violation thereof.
§ 2-123 KENNEL LICENSES.
   (a)   No person or household shall own or harbor more than three dogs of six
months of age or older or more than one litter of pups, or more than three cats
of more than six months of age or more than one litter of kittens, or more than
a total of five dogs and cats more than six months of age in any combination,
or engage in the commercial business of breeding, buying, selling, trading,
training or boarding cats or dogs or both cats and dogs, without having
obtained a kennel license from the City Clerk.
   (b)   Kennel licenses must be renewed annually. No kennel license shall be
issued until an inspection certificate has been issued by the Animal Control
Officer certifying approval of the kennel and compliance with the applicable
laws of the city and the state, and a certificate by the Zoning Code
Enforcement Officer has been issued certifying that the applicant for the
kennel license is not violating zoning laws of the city. If the City Clerk has
not received any protest against the kennel, the City Clerk may issue a renewal
of an existing kennel license at the same location without any report from the
Animal Control Officer and Zoning Code Enforcement Officer. If the Animal
Control Officer or the Zoning Code Enforcement Officer finds that the holder of
any kennel license is violating any zoning law, or any other law of the state,
or of the city, or is maintaining the facility in a manner detrimental to the
health, safety or peace of mind of any person residing in the immediate
vicinity, he or she shall report such fact to the City Clerk, and the license
shall not be renewed except after a public hearing before the governing body.
   (c)   The Animal Control Officer, the Zoning Enforcement Officer or County
Sheriff shall have the right to inspect any premises licensed under this
section at any reasonable time and nothing shall prevent the entry onto private
property for the purpose of inspection. The application for a kennel shall
constitute consent to such entry and inspection.
   (d)   The governing body may suspend or revoke a kennel license if, pursuant
to a public hearing, it finds any of the following:
      (1)   The kennel is maintained in violation of any applicable law of the
state or of the city;
      (2)   The kennel is maintained so as to be a public nuisance; or
      (3)   The kennel is maintained so as to be detrimental to the health,
safety or peace of mind of persons residing in the immediate vicinity.
   (e)   The annual kennel license fee shall be set by policy of the governing
body. Payment of such license fee is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the
dog license fees otherwise required under this chapter.
   (f)   This section shall not apply to and will not be construed to require a
kennel license for a licensed veterinarian to operate an animal hospital.
ARTICLE 2: DOGS
Section
   
2-201   Definition; harborer
   
2-202   Registration required; fees
   
2-203   Issuance of dog and cat licenses
   
2-204   Vaccination required
   
2-205   Tags
   
2-206   Rules and requirements
   
2-207   Visiting dogs
   
2-208   Impoundment; record; notice; redemption; minimum fee
   
2-209   Owner to be cited
   
2-210   Abandoning dogs or cats unlawful
   
2-211   Vicious dogs and cats
   
2-212   Dangerous dogs and cats
   
2-213   Impounding dogs at large; notice; fees; redemption; disposition
   
2-214   Special confinement
   
2-215   Other pets
   
2-216   Disposition of unclaimed dogs
   
2-217   Confinement of dogs in heat
   
2-218   Muzzling
   
2-219   Penalty
§ 2-201 DEFINITION; HARBORER.
   Any person who shall allow any dog, dogs, cat or cats to habitually remain
or to lodge or be fed within his or her home, store, yard, enclosure or place
of business or any other premises in which he or she resides or controls shall
be considered as HARBORING such dog, dogs, cat or cats within the meaning of
this article. Also, any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog or cat within
the limits of the city for three consecutive days shall be deemed the owner
thereof.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-202 REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEES.
   The owner, keeper or harborer of any dog or cat over six months of age shall
cause the name, sex and description of such dog or cat to be registered by the
City Clerk and shall each year pay to the City Clerk a registration fee in the
amount of and at the times following: registration fees shall become due and
payable on and after January 1 and until January 31 of each year. The fee shall
be $2 for each neutered male or female dog or cat and $5 for each male or
female dog and cat who are not neutered. If the registration fee is not paid by
February 1 of the year involved, a penalty of $0.50 shall be added for each
calendar month or fraction thereof during which the same remains unpaid and
delinquent.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-203 ISSUANCE OF DOG AND CAT LICENSES.
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to procure at the expense of the
city, such number of suitable tags, numbered serially, with the license year
thereon, for the purpose designated in §
2-202 of this article, as may be necessary. It shall also be the duty of the
City Clerk to procure and maintain a suitable register in which the Clerk shall
keep a record of the names and addresses of all persons to whom licenses are
issued together with the names and description of the dogs or cats licensed,
and the number of the checks or tags given.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-204 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   The rules and regulations governing the vaccination of dogs and cats as
follows.
   (a)   Every dog or cat of the age of six months or over, within the
corporate limits of the city, shall be immunized against rabies and shall
remain so effectively immunized. The owner or harborer of each such dog or cat
shall, upon request by proper authority, including the animal control officer
of the city or the County Sheriff’s Department, produce a certificate from a
licensed, accredited veterinarian, attesting to the dog or cat’s current
immunity against rabies.
   (b)   Before any such dog, dogs, cat or cats shall be registered, as
aforesaid, the owner, keeper or harborer thereof shall produce and exhibit to
the City Clerk, a certificate of some registered veterinarian showing that such
dog, dogs, cat or cats has or have been vaccinated against rabies.
   (c)   The County Sheriff and/or animal control officer, upon evidence or
rabies in the city or vicinity thereof, shall have the authority to require the
vaccination of all dogs, cats, other pets and animals within the city. One
publication in the official city paper or a written notice to the owners or
harborers thereof shall be considered “sufficient notice”.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-205 TAGS.
   Each person so registering a dog or cat as above required shall at all times
cause such dog or cat to wear a suitable metallic check or tag furnished by the
dog or cat’s assigned number and year of registration. In case of the loss of
any tag, the City Clerk shall, upon presentation of the receipt originally
issued and the payment of $1, issue a duplicate tag. No person shall place upon
any dog or cat a tag other than the one given for the particular dog or cat for
which it is issued under the registration certificate.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-206 RULES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner, keeper or harborer of any dog, dogs, cat or cats shall conform to
the following rules and requirements.
   (a)   No dog, dogs, cat or cats shall be permitted to run at large at any
time in the city.
   (b)   All dogs and cats shall be confined on the premises of the owners;
except that, such dogs or cats may be taken out on a chain or leash.
   (c)   Each and every dog, dogs, cat or cats which trespass upon public
property or private property of any person other than the owner, keeper or
harborer of such dog, dogs, cat or cats, are hereby declared a nuisance and
each such dog, dogs, cat or cats shall be subject to be impounded.
   (d)   Neither a dangerous or vicious dog or cat, nor a dog or cat which by
loud, frequent barking, caterwaul, howling or yelping, disturbs any person or
neighborhood shall be kept or harbored within the corporate limits of the city.
   (e)   The owner or those persons in control of any dog or cat which becomes
afflicted with any type of disease or illness shall be responsible for the
immediate and proper care and treatment or disposal of such dog or cat. If any
dog or cat has any contagious disease, including ringworm, such dog or cat
shall be properly confined and/or quarantined in such a manner so as to not
allow the disease to spread to other persons and animals.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-207 VISITING DOGS.
   The provisions of this article with respect to registration shall not apply
to any dog owned by any person visiting or temporarily remaining within the
city for less than 30 days. However, such dogs shall be kept under restraint by
the owner thereof at all times.
§ 2-208 IMPOUNDMENT; RECORD; NOTICE; REDEMPTION; MINIMUM FEE.
   (a)   Any dog found in violation of the provisions of this article shall be
subject to impoundment by the city.
   (b)   A record of all dogs impounded shall be kept by the city containing
the following information: color, sex, identifying marks, registration number
(if any) and the date of impoundment.
   (c)   (1)   No dog impounded under this section shall be disposed of until
after expiration of a minimum of three full business days of custody during
which the public has clear access to inspect and recover the dog through time
periods ordinarily accepted as usual business hours.
      (2)   During such time of custody, the city shall attempt to notify the
owner or custodian of any dog impounded by such facility if the owner or
custodian is known or reasonably ascertainable.
      (3)   Such dog may at any time be released to the legal owner, moved to a
veterinary hospital for treatment or observation, released in any manner, if
such dog was a gift to the animal shelter, or euthanized by a licensed
veterinarian if it appears to the veterinarian that the dog is diseased or
disabled beyond recovery.
      (4)   If within three full business days the owner does not appear to
claim the dog, then the dog may be sold, euthanized or otherwise disposed of.
   (d)   If at any time before the sale or destruction of any dog impounded
under the provisions of this article, the owner of an impounded dog does appear
and redeem the dog, it shall be turned over to the person claiming it upon
payment of any impoundment fees or penalties plus the actual costs of
impoundment, and shall not apply to any dog alleged as being vicious under §
2-115 of this code of ordinances or suspected of rabies under §
2-119 of this code of ordinances.
   (e)   The minimum impoundment fee shall be set by policy of the governing
body.
   (f)   Any dog impounded may not be released without a current rabies
vaccination.
   (g)   Impoundment hereunder shall not preclude any court from imposing and
executing any fine which might otherwise be levied under this article for
violation of any of the provisions thereof; nor shall impoundment be a defense
in any prosecution commenced hereunder.
   (h)   The redemption of any dog impounded for a violation of any provision
of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence of the violation of such
provision by the person redeeming the dog.
§ 2-209 OWNER TO BE CITED.
   In the case of any dog running at large which cannot be captured or taken up
by the animal control officer appointed for that purpose, and where ownership
can be established, the owner of the dog shall be given a summons for allowing
the dog to run loose and the owner shall be subject to the penalty as provided
in §
2-117 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-210 ABANDONING DOGS OR CATS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to bring within the city
limits, any dog or dogs, cat or cats, or other animals and abandon the same and
allow them to run at large in the streets, alleys and public places in the
city.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-211 VICIOUS DOGS AND CATS.
   (a)   Definition of terms. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department
possessing or harboring or having the care or custody of a dog and/or cats.
      VICIOUS DOG OR CAT.
         (A)   Any dog or cat with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack unprovoked, to cause injury to, or otherwise threaten the safety of
human beings or domestic animals;
         (B)   Any dog or cat which because of its physical nature, or vicious
propensity is capable of inflicting serious physical harm or death to humans
and which would constitute a danger to human life or property if it were not
kept in the manner required by this article; or
         (C)   Any dog or cat which, without provocation, attacks or bites, or
has attacked or bitten, a human being or domestic animal.
   (b)   Penalties. Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine and/or the court may
order humane destruction of the vicious dog, if the court finds, based upon
frequency or severity of any injuries to a human being or domestic animal
caused by the vicious dog, that confinement pursuant to this section is not
likely to prevent future harm to human beings or domestic animals.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-212 DANGEROUS DOGS AND CATS.
   The County Sheriff and/or animal control officer of the city, at any time in
an emergency situation where there exists the possibility of personal injury to
any person(s) and where the animal(s) involved cannot be reasonably and safely
taken into custody, may kill, without notice, any dog and/or cat.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-213 IMPOUNDING DOGS AT LARGE; NOTICE; FEES; REDEMPTION; DISPOSITION.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff or other persons duly
appointed by the city governing body, to immediately take into custody and
impound any dog found running at large in the city contrary to this article. If
taken into custody and impounded, the dog shall be kept for 72 hours and if
claimed by any person, shall be delivered to such claimant upon satisfactory
proof that he or she is the owner or is entitled to possession thereof and upon
payment of the following fees and charges:
      (1)   The impounding fee for feeding and caring for such dog shall be set
by resolution or ordinance of the governing body; and
      (2)   Provided further, that if any dog so impounded does not have a
current registration tag and a rabies vaccination certificate, and the same is
reclaimed by the owner, such owner shall have three days in which to comply
with §§
2-202 through
2-204 of this article. If the owner redeeming the dog fails to comply with §§
2-202 through
2-204 of this article, within three days, then such dog shall be seized and re-
impounded, and the owner shall have three days to comply with §§
2-202 through
2-204 of this article. If the owner has not complied within the additional
three days, the dog shall be subject to disposal under division (b) below.
   (b)   If any dog shall not be claimed within 72 hours after the impoundment
of such animal, such dog may be killed in a humane manner, or may be sold by
the County Sheriff and/or animal control officer for any reasonable sum and the
proceeds paid into the city’s General Fund; provided that, any dog found at
large and taken into custody which is carrying a metal tag for the current tax
year may be returned to the registered owner of the dog if claimed and, if not,
the dog may be disposed of as in other cases; provided further that, any dog
taken into custody which does not have a current registration tag and a rabies
vaccination certificate, and the same is reclaimed by the owner, such owner
shall have three days to comply with §§
2-202 through
2-204 of this article. If the owner redeeming the dog fails to comply with §§
2-202 through
2-204 of this article within three days, then such dog shall be seized and re-
impounded, and the owner shall have three days to comply with §§
2-202 through
2-204 of this article. If the owner has not complied within the three
additional days, the dog shall be killed in a humane manner, or may be sold by
the County Sheriff and/or animal control officer for any reasonable sum and the
proceeds paid into the city’s General Fund.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-214 SPECIAL CONFINEMENT.
   Whenever the Mayor shall deem it necessary, either from danger of
hydrophobia or other cause, he or she may, by proclamation, require all persons
to confine their dogs or cats or securely muzzle them whether such dogs or cats
be registered or not for such time as may be designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-215 OTHER PETS.
   The Health Officer, upon evidence of rabies in the city or vicinity thereof,
shall have authority to require the vaccination of all pets or animals within
the city. One publication in the official city paper or a written notice to the
owners or harborers thereof shall be considered sufficient notice.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 2-216 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS.
   (a)   If any dog is not redeemed by its owner or harborer within the time
allowed for redemption as specified in this article thereof, the animal control
officer, County Sheriff, any authorized veterinarian or any duly authorized
pound personnel may destroy such dog or sell the same for the costs of
impoundment and keeping, plus any registration fee due for the current year.
   (b)   No dog may be transferred to the permanent custody of a prospective
owner unless:
      (1)   Such dog has been surgically spayed or neutered before the physical
transfer of the dog occurs; or
      (2)   The prospective owner signs an agreement to have the dog spayed or
neutered and deposits with the veterinarian not less than the lowest nor more
than the highest cost of spaying or neutering in the community as determined by
the city. Any funds deposited pursuant to such an agreement shall be refunded
to such person upon presentation of a written statement signed by a licensed
veterinarian that the dog has been spayed or neutered. If such person does not
reclaim the deposit within six months after receiving custody of the dog, the
city shall keep the deposit and may reclaim the unspayed or unneutered dog.
   (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require sterilization of
a dog which is being held by the city and which may be claimed by its rightful
owner within the holding period established in §
2-208 of this article.
§ 2-217 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS IN HEAT.
   Any unspayed female dog in the stage of estrus (heat) shall be confined
during such period of time in a house, building or secure enclosure, and the
area of enclosure shall be so constructed that no other dog or dogs may gain
voluntary access to the confined animal, except for purposes of planned
breeding. Any animal that is in the state of estrus (heat) and that is not
properly confined, or any such animal that is creating a neighborhood
nuisances, shall be removed to a boarding kennel, to a veterinary hospital or
to the animal shelter. All expenses incurred as a result of the confinement
shall be paid by the owner. The owner of animals removed to the animal shelter
shall be charged at the rate established from time to time by the animal
shelter for routine confinement.
§ 2-218 MUZZLING.
   Whenever the Mayor shall deem it necessary for the protection and welfare of
the inhabitants of the city, he or she shall issue an order requiring all dogs
kept within the city to be effectively muzzled for such length of time as may
be specified in the order, to prevent them from biting or injuring persons or
animals. Such order shall be published in the official newspaper of the city
for such period of time as the Mayor may deem necessary.
§ 2-219 PENALTY.
   For each and every calendar year in which any person violates any of the
provisions of this article, upon conviction thereof, he or she shall be fined
in any sum not less than $25, nor more than $100, on the first offense and not
less than $50, nor more than $100, on the second and third offenses and $100
per conviction thereafter which occurs in that same calendar year.
(Ord. 1213, passed 12-7-1992)
ARTICLE 3: RESERVED
ARTICLE 4: OTHER ANIMALS
Section
   
2-401   Exotic animals
   
2-402   Beekeeping
§ 2-401 EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep,
maintain or have in his or her possession or under his or her control within
the city any poisonous reptile or any other dangerous wild animal or reptile,
any vicious or dangerous animal or any other animal or reptile of wild, vicious
or dangerous propensities.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the city any of the
following animals:
      (1)   All poisonous animals including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes: chimpanzees; gibbons; gorillas, orangutans; and siamangs;
      (3)   Baboons;
      (4)   Badgers;
      (5)   Bears;
      (6)   Bison;
      (7)   Bobcats;
      (8)   Cheetahs;
      (9)   Crocodilians, 30 inches in length or more;
      (10)   Constrictor snakes, six feet in length or more;
      (11)   Coyotes;
      (12)   Deer; includes all members of the deer family, for example, white-
tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      (13)   Elephants;
      (14)   Foxes;
      (15)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (16)   Hippopotami;
      (17)   Hyenas;
      (18)   Jaguars;
      (19)   Leopards;
      (20)   Lions;
      (21)   Lynxes;
      (22)   Monkeys;
      (23)   Ostriches;
      (24)   Pumas; also known as cougars, mountain lions and panthers;
      (25)   Raccoons;
      (26)   Rhinoceroses;
      (27)   Skunks;
      (28)   Tigers;
      (29)   Wild and exotic cats; and
      (30)   Wolves.
   (c)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to bona fide pet
shops, zoos, circuses, carnivals, educational institutions, or medical
institutions, if:
      (1)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the zoning ordinance
of the city;
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors; and
      (3)   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to prevent
their escape.
   (d)   The Municipal Judge shall have the authority to order any animal
deemed vicious confined, destroyed or removed from the city.
(Ord. 1170, passed 5-16-1988)
§ 2-402 BEEKEEPING.
   (a)   Purpose and application. It is the intent of these regulations to
maintain minimum standards for the keeping of bees within the corporate limits
of the city and promote the social benefits of beekeeping and as a local food
supply. These regulations shall apply to those persons or entities who
presently possess beehives or who intend to possess beehives in the future.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      APIARY. A place where bee colonies are kept.
      BEE. Any stage of the common domestic honey bee, apis mellifera species.
      BEEKEEPING. A person who owns or has charge of one or more colonies of
bees.
      COLONY. A hive and its equipment and appurtenances, including bees, comb,
honey, pollen and brood.
      HIVE. A structure intended for the housing of a bee colony.
      TRACT. A contiguous parcel of land under common ownership.
   (c)   Compliance with provisions. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, establish or maintain any hive, stand, box or apiary or keep any bees in
or upon any premises within the corporate limits of the city unless the bees
are kept in accordance with these regulations.
   (d)   Permit required. Any person keeping hives, stands, boxes or apiaries
shall be required to obtain a permit from the city. The permit shall be valid
from January 1 through December 31 of each year. The permit will be due upon
initial application and each subsequent year of renewal.
   (e)   Housing requirements and location: number restricted.
      (1)   Type of houses. All bee colonies shall be kept in Langstroth-type
hive with removable frames which are kept in sound and usable condition.
      (2)   Height. The height of any one hive shall not exceed five feet.
      (3)   Location. No hive, stand or apiary shall be placed or kept:
         (A)   Closer than 30 feet to the property line of any adjoining
developed property;
         (B)   Closer than 30 feet to any house or other building located on
developed property other than the residence of the keeper of such bees;
         (C)   Closer than 50 feet to the nearest edge of the traveled portion
of a public street or the trail system;
         (D)   Within a front yard; or
         (E)   Upon land not owned or possessed by the keeper of such bees
without first obtaining written permission to do so from the owner or person
lawfully in possession of such land. Such permission may be revoked at any
time.
      (4)   Number of beehives. It shall be unlawful to keep more than two
colonies per each 12,000 square feet tract of land.
      (5)   Future development of adjacent property. In the event that any
adjacent undeveloped property is developed or residential structured are
constructed closer than the distance herein prescribed, the keeper shall move
or, if necessary, remove the hives, stand, boxes or apiaries to comply with
these regulations.
      (6)   Sign requirements on property other than owner’s. Every person
owning a hive, stand, box or apiary located on premises other than where the
owner resides shall identify such hive, stand, box or apiary by a sign or other
prominent marking stating in letters at least one inch high on a contrasting
background the name, address and phone number of the owner of such equipment.
      (7)   Required watering facility. Fresh, clean watering facilities for
the bees shall be provided within 20 feet of each hive, stand, box or spiary.
      (8)   Maintenance.
         (A)   Hives shall be actively maintained. Hives not under human
management and maintenance shall be dismantled or removed. Notwithstanding
compliance with the requirements of this section, it shall be unlawful for any
beekeeper to keep any colony or colonies in such a manner or of such
disposition to cause any unhealthy condition, interfere with the normal use and
enjoyment of human or animal life of others, or interfere with the normal use
and enjoyment of any public property or property of others.
         (B)   In any instance in which a colony exhibits unusually aggressive
characteristics, or when the colony consists of Africanized bees (Apis
Mellifera scutellata), it shall be the duty of the beekeeper to destroy or
requeen the colony. Queens shall be selected from stock bred for gentleness and
non- swarming characteristics.
      (9)   Violation and penalty. The keeping of bees in violation of this
section is prohibited and for each and every calendar year in which any person
violates any of the provisions of this section, upon conviction thereof, he or
she shall be fined in any sum not less than $25, nor more than $100, on the
first offense and not less than $50, nor more than $200, on the second and
third offenses and $300 per conviction thereafter which occurs in that same
calendar year. Additionally, any person so convicted shall be subject to court
costs.
   (f)   Construction. Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to
zoos, animal exhibits, veterinarian services or pet stores.
(Ord. 1409, passed 11-6-2017)
CHAPTER III: BEVERAGES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
      
3.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
4.   PRIVATE CLUBS
      
5.   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
      
6.   CATERERS
      
7.   TEMPORARY PERMITS
      
8.   SPECIAL CMB PERMITS
      
9.   KEG REGISTRATION
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
3-101   Definitions
   
3-102   Restriction on location
   
3-103   Minors on premises; purchase or consumption by minors
   
3-104   Consumption on public property
   
3-105   Public sale; consumption
   
3-106   Common consumption areas
   
3-107   Consumption while driving
   
3-108   Identification card
§ 3-101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol, but does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC CANDY.
      (1)   For purposes of manufacturing, any candy or other confectionary
product with an alcohol content greater than 0.5% alcohol by volume; and
      (2)   For purposes of sale at retail, any candy or other confectionary
product with an alcohol content greater than 1% alcohol by volume.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, alcoholic candy and every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being, but shall not include
any cereal malt beverage.
   CATERER. An individual, partnership or corporation which sells alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage by the individual drink, and provides services
related to the serving thereof, on unlicensed premises which may be open to the
public, but does not include a holder of a temporary permit selling alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage in accordance with the terms of such permit.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Any fermented, but undistilled, liquor brewed or made
from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt substitute or any flavored malt
beverage, as defined in K.S.A. 41-2729, but does not include any such liquor
which is more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   CLASS A CLUB. A premises which is owned or leased by a corporation,
partnership, business trust or association and which is operated thereby as a
bona fide non-profit social, fraternal or war veterans’ club, as determined by
the state, for the exclusive use of the corporate stockholders, partners, trust
beneficiaries or associates (hereinafter referred to as members), and their
families and guests accompanying them as provided in K.S.A. 41-2637.
   CLASS B CLUB. A premises operated for profit by a corporation, partnership
or individual, to which members of such club may resort for the consumption of
food or alcoholic beverages and for entertainment.
   CLUB. A Class A or Class B club.
   COMMON CONSUMPTION AREA. A defined indoor or outdoor area not otherwise
subject to a license issued pursuant to the state’s Liquor Control Act or the
Club and Drinking Establishment Act where the possession and consumption of
alcoholic liquor is allowed pursuant to a common consumption area permit. The
boundaries of any COMMON CONSUMPTION AREA must be clearly marked using a
physical barrier or any apparent line of demarcation.
   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT. Premises which may be open to the general public,
where alcoholic liquor by the individual drink is sold. The term DRINKING
ESTABLISHMENT includes a railway car.
   GENERAL RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
and beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume at retail.
   LIMITED RETAILER. A person who has a license to sell cereal malt beverages
and beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume at retail only in
original and unopened containers and not for consumption on the premises.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any place at which cereal malt beverages, or alcoholic
beverages, or both are sold.
   TEMPORARY PERMIT. A permit, issued in accordance with the laws of the state,
which allows the permit holder to offer for sale, sell and serve alcoholic
liquor or cereal malt beverage for consumption on unlicensed premises, open to
the public.
   WHOLESALER or DISTRIBUTOR. Any individuals, firms, co-partnerships,
corporations and associations which sell or offer for sale any beverage
referred to in this chapter, to persons, co-partnerships, corporations and
associations authorized by this chapter to sell cereal malt beverages and beer
containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume at retail.
§ 3-102 RESTRICTION ON LOCATION.
   (a)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or served by a person holding a
license or permit from the city whose place of business or other premises are
located within 200 feet of any church, school, nursing home, library or
hospital, said distance to be measured from the nearest property line of such
church, school, nursing home, library or hospital to the nearest portion of the
building occupied by the premises.
   (b)   The distance location of division (a) above shall not apply to a club,
drinking establishment, caterer, restaurant or temporary permit holder.
   (c)   No license or permit shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor
if the building or use does not meet the zoning ordinance requirements of the
city or conflicts with other city laws, including building and health codes.
(Ord. 1365, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 3-103 MINORS ON PREMISES; PURCHASE OR CONSUMPTION BY MINORS.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
remain on any premises where the sale of alcoholic liquor is licensed for on-
premises consumption, or where a caterer or temporary permit holder is serving
alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the operator, person in charge, or
licensee of any premises licensed for on-premises consumption of alcoholic
liquor or a caterer or temporary permit holder who is serving alcoholic liquor
to permit any person under the age of 21 years to remain on the premises.
      (3)   This section shall not apply if the person under the age of 21
years is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or if the licensed or
permitted premises derive not more than 30% of its gross receipts in each
calendar year from the sale of alcoholic liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (b)   (1)   No person under 21 years of age shall possess, consume, obtain,
purchase or attempt to obtain a or purchase alcoholic liquor or cereal malt
beverage, except as authorized by law.
      (2)   Violation of this section by a person 18 or more years of age, but
less than 21 years of age is a Class C misdemeanor for which the minimum fine
is $200.
      (3)   In addition to any other penalty as provided by law, the court may
order the offender to do either or both of the following:
         (A)   Perform 40 hours of public service; and/or
         (B)   Attend and satisfactorily complete a suitable educational or
training program dealing with the effects of alcohol or other chemical
substances when ingested by humans.
      (4)   This division (b) shall not apply to the possession and consumption
of cereal malt beverage by a person under the legal age for consumption of
cereal malt beverage when such possession and consumption is permitted and
supervised, and such beverage is furnished, by the person’s parent or legal
guardian.
(Ord. 1244, passed 5-24-1996)
§ 3-104 CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall drink or consume any alcoholic liquor or cereal malt
beverage/enhanced cereal malt beverage on city owned property, except:
      (1)   Alcoholic liquor and cereal malt beverages may be consumed in the
outside premises of a place of business licensed by the city for retail sale of
alcohol; provided, the external area has been properly identified by permit,
authorized and approved by the city; and appropriate barriers are in place to
prevent non-business customers and minors from entering the designated area;
      (2)   Alcoholic liquor and cereal malt beverages may be consumed at the
Community Building property, and Armory property, commonly known as 520 S.
Seventh Street; and
      (3)   Cereal malt beverages containing 6% or less may be consumed at all
city owned parks, sports fields and complexes.
   (b)   Any person violating any provision of such section shall be punished
as provided in §
1-116 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1421, passed 5-6-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 41-719
§ 3-105 PUBLIC SALE; CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve or dispense any
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor in any public place not licensed to
sell, serve or dispense such beverage at such public place within or under the
jurisdiction of the city.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or consume any cereal
malt beverage or alcoholic liquor in any public place not licensed to sell and
serve such beverage for public consumption at such public place within or under
the jurisdiction of the city.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, the term PUBLIC PLACE shall include upon
any street, public thoroughfare, public parking lot or any privately-owned
parking area made available to the public generally, within any parked or
driven motor vehicle situated in any of the aforesaid places or upon any
property owned by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless such
property is leased to others under K.S.A. 12-1740 et seq., if the property is
being used for hotel or motel purposes or purposes incidental thereto or is
owned or operated by an airport authority created pursuant to K.S.A. Ch. 27.
(K.S.A. 41-719)
§ 3-106 COMMON CONSUMPTION AREAS.
   (a)   At the discretion of the governing body the city may establish one or
more common consumption areas within the limits of the city by ordinance and
authorize the possession and consumption of alcoholic liquor or cereal malt
beverage within the common consumption area. The ordinance shall designate the
boundaries of any common consumption area and prescribe the times during which
alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage may be consumed therein. The ordinance
shall require that any public street or roadway that lies within a common
consumption area be blocked from motorized traffic during the hours in which
alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage is consumed.
   (b)   Applications for the establishment of common consumption areas shall
be submitted to the City Clerk, subject to the following.
      (1)   The application shall describe the proposed boundaries, including a
description of the physical barrier or other apparent demarcation to be used,
of any common consumption area and the proposed times during which alcoholic
liquor may be consumed therein.
      (2)   Each application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
application fee as set forth in the schedule of fees.
      (3)   Each application shall be accompanied by an acknowledgment that
each common consumption area permit holder shall be liable for violations of
all liquor laws that occur off the licensee’s premises, but within the common
consumption area identified in the ordinance and that no permit holder shall
permit any person to remove any open container of alcoholic liquor from the
boundaries of the common consumption area.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall immediately notify the Director of the Division
of Alcoholic Beverage Control of the establishment of a common consumption area
within the city and submit a copy of the ordinance along with such notice.
   (d)   In order to participate in the common consumption area, licensees must
apply for and receive a permit from the Director of the Division of Alcoholic
Beverage Control.
(K.S.A. 41-2659)
§ 3-107 CONSUMPTION WHILE DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic liquor while operating any vehicle upon any street or highway.
(K.S.A. 8-1599, 41-719)
§ 3-108 IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Display, cause or permit to be displayed, or have in possession,
any fictitious, fraudulently altered or fraudulently obtained identification
card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (2)   Display or represent any identification card not issued to such
person as being his or her card for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or
consumption of either cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor;
      (3)   Permit any unlawful use of an identification card issued to a
person for purposes relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either
cereal malt beverage or alcoholic liquor; and
      (4)   Photograph, photostat, duplicate or in any way reproduce any
identification card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could be
mistaken for a valid identification card or display or have in possession any
such photograph, photostat, duplicate, reproduction or facsimile for purposes
relating to the sale, purchase or consumption of either cereal malt beverage or
alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to lend any identification card to
or knowingly permit the use of any identification card by any person under 21
years of age for use in the sale, purchase or consumption of any cereal malt
beverage or alcoholic liquor.
ARTICLE 2: CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES
Section
   
3-201   License required of retailers
   
3-202   Application
   
3-202A   License application procedures
   
3-203   License granted; denied
   
3-204   License to be posted
   
3-205   License, disqualification
   
3-206   Restriction upon location
   
3-207   License fee
   
3-208   Suspension of license
   
3-209   License suspension/revocation by governing body
   
3-210   Same; appeal
   
3-211   Change of location
   
3-212   Wholesalers and/or distributors
   
3-213   Business regulations
   
3-214   Prohibited conduct on premises
   
3-215   Sanitary conditions required
   
3-216   Minors on premises
§ 3-201 LICENSE REQUIRED OF RETAILERS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any cereal malt beverage
or beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume at retail without a
license for each place of business where cereal malt beverages are to be sold
at retail.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, having a license to sell cereal
malt beverages or beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume at retail
only in the original and unopened containers and not for consumption on the
premises, to sell any cereal malt beverage in any other manner.
(K.S.A. 41-2702)
§ 3-202 APPLICATION.
   (a)   Any person desiring a license shall make an application to the
governing body of the city and accompany the application by the required
license fee for each place of business for which the person desires the
license.
   (b)   The application shall be verified, and upon a form prepared by the
Attorney General of the state, and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and residence of the applicant and how long he or she has
resided within the state;
      (2)   The particular place for which a license is desired;
      (3)   The name of the owner of the premises upon which the place of
business is located;
      (4)   The names and addresses of all persons who hold any financial
interest in the particular place of business for which a license is desired;
      (5)   A statement that the applicant is a citizen of the United States
and not less than 21 years of age and that he or she has not within two years
immediately preceding the date of making application been convicted of a
felony, any crime involving moral turpitude, drunkenness, driving a motor
vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or the violation of
any other intoxicating liquor law of any state or of the United States;
      (6)   Each application for a general retailer’s license shall be
accompanied by a certificate from the City Health Officer certifying that he or
she has inspected the premises to be licensed and that the same comply with the
provisions of Ch. VIII of this code; and
      (7)   Each application for a general retailer’s license must be
accompanied by a certificate from the City Fire Chief certifying that he or she
has inspected the premises to be licensed and that the same comply with the
provisions of Ch. VII of this code.
   (c)   The application shall be accompanied by a statement, signed by the
applicant, authorizing any governmental agency to provide the city with any
information pertinent to the application. One copy of such application shall
immediately be transmitted to the Clerk of the city for investigation of the
applicant. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to investigate such applicant
to determine whether he or she is qualified as a licensee under the provisions
of this chapter. The City Clerk shall report to the governing body not later
than five working days subsequent to the receipt of such application. The
application shall be scheduled for consideration by the governing body at the
earliest meeting consistent with current notification requirements.
§ 3-202A LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (a)   All applications for a new and renewed cereal malt beverage license
shall be submitted to the City Clerk ten days in advance of the governing body
meeting at which they will be considered.
   (b)   The City Clerk’s office shall notify the applicant of an existing
license 30 days in advance of its expiration.
   (c)   The Clerk’s office shall provide copies of all applications to County
Sheriff, to the Fire Department and to the City-County Health Department when
they are received. The County Sheriff will run a records check through the KBI
on all applicants and the Fire Department and Health Department will inspect
the premises in accord with Chs. VII and VIII of this code. The Departments
will then recommend approval, or disapproval, of applications within five
working days of the Department’s receipt of the application.
   (d)   The governing body will not consider any application for a new or
renewed license that has not been submitted ten days in advance and been
reviewed by the above city departments.
   (e)   An applicant who has not had a cereal malt beverage license in the
city shall attend the governing body meeting when the application for a new
license will be considered.
§ 3-203 LICENSE GRANTED; DENIED.
   (a)   The journal of the governing body shall show the action taken on the
application.
   (b)   If the license is granted, the City Clerk shall issue the license
which shall show the name of the licensee and the year for which issued.
   (c)   No license shall be transferred to another licensee.
   (d)   If the license shall be denied, the license fee shall be immediately
returned to the person who has made application.
§ 3-204 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   Each license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the place of business
for which the license is issued.
§ 3-205 LICENSE, DISQUALIFICATION.
   No license shall be issued to:
   (a)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (b)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (c)   A person who, within two years immediately preceding the date of
application approval, has been convicted of, released from incarceration for or
released from probation or parole for a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude, drunkenness, driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or the violation of any other intoxicating liquor law of
any state or of the United States;
   (d)   A partnership, unless all the members of the partnership shall
otherwise be qualified to obtain a license;
   (e)   A corporation if any manager, officer or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of such
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason
other than non-residence within the city or county;
   (f)   A corporation, if any manager, officer or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of such
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason
other than the citizenship requirements;
   (g)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   (h)   A person whose spouse would be ineligible to receive a retailer’s
license for any reason other than citizenship requirements or age, except that
this division (h) shall not apply in determining eligibility for a renewal
license; or
   (i)   A person whose spouse has been convicted of a felony or other crime
which would disqualify a person from licensure under this section and such
felony or other crime was committed during the time that the spouse held a
license under the Cereal Malt Beverage Act.
(K.S.A. 41-2703)
§ 3-206 RESTRICTION UPON LOCATION.
   (a)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any cereal malt
beverage on premises which are located in areas not zoned for such purpose.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to sell or dispense at retail any cereal malt
beverage at any place within the city limits that is within a 200-foot radius
of any church, school or library.
   (c)   Provisions of this section shall not apply to any establishment
holding a private club license issued by the state.
   (d)   The distance limitation of division (b) above shall not apply to any
establishment holding a cereal malt beverage license issued by the city when
the licensee has petitioned for and received a waiver of the distance
limitation. The governing body shall grant such a waiver only following public
notice and hearing.
(K.S.A. 41-2704)
§ 3-207 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   (1)   The rules and regulations regarding license fees shall be as
follows:
         (A)   General retailer. For each place of business selling cereal malt
beverages/enhanced cereal malt beverages at retail, $100 per calendar year; and
Kansas Bureau of Investigation (KBI) background check fee, as determined by the
KBI for the proposed licensee, spouse of proposed licensee, managers, resident
agent and corporate officers, directors and stockholders owning the aggregate
or more than 25% of corporate stock per calendar year; and
         (B)   Limited retailer. For each place of business selling only at
retail cereal malt beverages/enhanced cereal malt beverages in original and
unopened containers and not for consumption on the premises, $50 per calendar
year; and Kansas Bureau of Investigation (KBI) background check fee, as
determined by the KBI for the proposed licensee, spouse of proposed license,
managers, resident agent and corporate officers, directors and stockholders
owning in the aggregate of more than 25% of corporate stock per calendar year.
      (2)   The full amount of the license fee and KBI background check fee
shall be required regardless of the time of the year in which the application
is made, and the licensee shall only be authorized to operate under the license
for the remainder of the calendar year in which the license is issued.
      (3)   A cereal malt license issued prior to the adoption of this section
is still valid and does not need to be renewed until said license expires.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ENHANCED CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Includes cereal malt beverage as the term
is defined in K.S.A. 41-2701, and amendments thereto, and such term shall
include beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume when such beer is
sold by a retailer licensed under the state’s Cereal Malt Beverage Act.
      GENERAL RETAILER. A license who has a license to sell only enhanced
cereal malt beverages for consumption on the premises only.
      LICENSEE. A “person”, as defined in this section who has a license as
required by this section.
      LIMITED RETAILER. A licensee who has a license to sell only at retail
enhanced cereal malt beverages in original and unopened containers, and not for
the consumption on the premises.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, partnerships, corporations and
associations.
      PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any place at which enhanced cereal malt beverages are
sold.
      PREMISES. The site licensed by the city as an enhanced cereal malt
beverage establishment and such other areas, under the control of the licensee
or his or her employee or employees, that are in such close proximity to the
licensed premises that activities and conduct of persons within such other
areas may be viewed by persons on or within the licensed premises.
      SALE AT RETAIL and RETAIL SALE. Sales for consumption on the premises and
not for resale in any form.
      WHOLESALER or DISTRIBUTOR. Individuals, firms, co-partnerships,
corporations and associations which sell or offer for sale any beverages
referred to in this section, to person, co- partnerships, corporations and
associations authorized by this section to sell enhanced cereal malt beverages
at retail.
(Ord. 1420, passed 4-15-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 41-2702
§ 3-208 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The County Sheriff, upon five days’ written notice, shall have the
authority to suspend such license for a period not to exceed 30 days, for any
violation of the provisions of this chapter or other laws pertaining to cereal
malt beverages, which violation does not in his or her judgment justify a
recommendation of revocation.
   (b)   The licensee may appeal such order of suspension to the governing body
within seven days from the date of such order.
§ 3-209 LICENSE SUSPENSION/REVOCATION BY GOVERNING BODY.
   (a)   The governing body of the city, upon five days’ written notice, to a
person holding a license to sell cereal malt beverages may permanently revoke
or cause to be suspended for a period of not more than 30 days such license for
any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provisions of K.S.A. 41-2701 et seq.,
and amendments thereto, or any rules or regulations of the city;
      (2)   Drunkenness of the licensee or permitting any intoxicated person to
remain in or upon the licensee’s place of business;
      (3)   The sale of cereal malt beverages to any person under 21 years of
age;
      (4)   For permitting any person to mix drinks with materials purchased in
any premises licensed under this article or brought into the premises for this
purpose;
      (5)   For the sale or possession of, or for permitting the use or
consumption of alcoholic liquor, except beer containing not more than 6%
alcohol by volume, within or upon any premises licensed under this article; and
      (6)   The licensee has been convicted of a violation of the Beer and
Cereal Malt Beverage Keg Registration Act.
   (b)   The provisions of divisions (a)(4) and (a)(5) above shall not apply if
the place of business or premises also are currently licensed as a club or
drinking establishment pursuant to the Club and Drinking Establishment Act.
   (c)   The city, upon five days’ notice to the persons holding a license,
shall revoke or suspend the license for any one of the following reasons:
      (1)   The licensee has fraudulently obtained the license by giving false
information in the application therefor;
      (2)   The licensee has become ineligible to obtain a license under this
chapter;
      (3)   The non-payment of any license fees;
      (4)   Permitting any gambling in or upon the licensee’s place of
business;
      (5)   The employment of persons under 18 years of age in dispensing or
selling cereal malt beverage or beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by
volume;
      (6)   The employment or continuation in employment of a person in
connection with the sale, serving or dispensing of cereal malt beverages if the
licensee knows such person has been, within the preceding two years, adjudged
guilty of a felony or any violation of the intoxicating liquor laws of this
state, another state or the United States; or
      (7)   There has been a violation of K.S.A. 21-4106 or 21-4107, prior to
their repeal or K.S.A. 21-6204, and amendments thereto, (public nuisance) in or
upon the licensee’s place of business.
(K.S.A. 41-2708)
§ 3-210 SAME; APPEAL.
   The licensee, within 20 days after the order of the governing body revoking
any license, may appeal to the District Court of the county and the District
Court shall proceed to hear such appeal as though such Court had original
jurisdiction in the matter. Any appeal taken under this section shall not
suspend the order of revocation or suspension during the pendency of such
appeal. In case of the revocation of the license of any licensee, no new
license shall be issued to such person or any person acting for or on his or
her behalf, for a period of six months thereafter.
(K.S.A. 41-2708)
§ 3-211 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   If a licensee desires to change the location of his or her place of
business, he or she shall make an application to the governing body showing the
same information relating to the proposed location as in the case of an
original application. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee of $50. If
the application is in proper form and the location is not in a prohibited zone
and all other requirements relating to such place of business are met, a new
license shall be issued for the new location for the balance of the year for
which a current license is held by the licensee.
§ 3-212 WHOLESALERS AND/OR DISTRIBUTORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any wholesaler and/or distributor or his, her or
its agents or employees, to sell and/or deliver cereal malt beverages or beer
containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume within the city, to persons
authorized under this article to sell the same within this city unless such
wholesaler and/or distributor has first secured a license from the Director of
Revenue, State Commission of Revenue and Taxation of the state authorizing such
sales.
(K.S.A. 41-307)
§ 3-213 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of every licensee to observe the following regulations.
   (a)   The place of business licensed and operating under this article shall
at all times have a front and rear exit unlocked when open for business.
   (b)   The premises and all equipment used in connection with such business
shall be kept clean and in a sanitary condition and shall at all times be open
to the inspection of the County Sheriff and health officers of the city, county
and state.
   (c)   Except as provided by division (d) below, no cereal malt beverages
beer containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume may be sold or dispensed
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m., or consumed between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., or on Sunday, except in a place of business
which is licensed to sell cereal malt beverage for consumption on the premises,
which derives not less than 30% of its gross receipts from the sale of food for
consumption on the licensed premises; closing hours for clubs shall conform to
K.S.A. 41-2614, and any amendments thereto.
   (d)   Cereal malt beverages may be sold at any time alcoholic liquor is
allowed by law to be served on premises which are licensed pursuant to K.S.A.
41-2601 et seq., and licensed as a club by the State Director of Alcoholic
Beverage Control.
   (e)   The place of business shall be open to the public and to the County
Sheriff at all times during business hours, except that premises licensed as a
club under a license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control
shall be open to the County Sheriff and not to the public.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or agent or employee of the
licensee to become intoxicated in the place of business for which such license
has been issued.
   (g)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
intoxicated person to remain in the place of business for which such license
has been issued.
   (h)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall sell or permit
the sale of cereal malt beverage to any person under 21 years of age.
   (i)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
gambling in the place of business for which such license has been issued.
   (j)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to mix alcoholic drinks with materials purchased in said place of
business or brought in for such purpose.
   (k)   Cereal malt beverages may be sold in the original package within the
city on any Sunday, except Easter, between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 8:00
p.m.
(Ord. 1317, passed 9-19-2005)
§ 3-214 PROHIBITED CONDUCT ON PREMISES.
   The following conduct by a cereal malt beverage licensee, manager or
employee of any licensed cereal malt beverage establishment is deemed contrary
to public welfare and is prohibited:
   (a)   Remaining or permitting any person to remain in or upon the premises
who exposes to view any portion of the female breasts below the top of the
areola or any portion of males’/females’ pubic hair, anus, buttocks or
genitals;
   (b)   Permitting any employee on the licensed premises to touch, caress or
fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals of any other employee or
any patron;
   (c)   Encouraging or permitting any patron on the licensed premises to
touch, caress or fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals of any
employee;
   (d)   Performing or permitting any person to perform on the licensed
premises acts of or acts which simulate:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy or any other sexual act
which is prohibited by law; or
      (2)   Touching, caressing or fondling such persons’ breasts, buttocks,
anus or genitals.
   (e)   Using or permitting any person to use on the licensed premises, any
artificial devices or inanimate objects to depict any of the acts prohibited by
division (d) above;
   (f)   Showing or permitting any person to show on the licensed premises any
motion picture, film, photograph, electronic reproduction or other visual
reproduction depicting:
      (1)   Acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy
or any sexual act which is prohibited by law;
      (2)   The touching, caressing or fondling of the buttocks, anus, genitals
or the female breasts; and
      (3)   Scenes in which a person displays the buttocks, anus, genitals or
the female breasts.
   (g)   As used in this section, the term PREMISES means the premises licensed
by the city as a cereal malt beverage establishment and such other areas, under
the control of the licensee or his or her employee or employees, that are in
such close proximity to the licensed premises that activities and conduct of
persons within such other areas may be viewed by persons on or within the
licensed premises.
§ 3-215 SANITARY CONDITIONS REQUIRED.
   All parts of the licensed premises including furnishings and equipment shall
be kept clean and in a sanitary condition, free from flies, rodents and vermin
at all times. The licensed premises shall have at least one restroom for each
sex easily accessible at all times to its patrons and employees. The restroom
shall be equipped with at least one lavatory with hot and cold running water,
be well-lighted, and be furnished at all times with paper towels or other
mechanical means of drying hands and face. Each restroom shall be provided with
adequate toilet facilities which shall be of sanitary design and readily
cleanable. The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self closing and toilet paper
at all times shall be provided. Easily cleanable receptacles shall be provided
for waste material and such receptacles in toilet rooms for women shall be
covered. The restrooms shall at all times be kept in a sanitary condition and
free of offensive odors and shall be at all times subject to inspection by the
City Health Officer or designee.
§ 3-216 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to remain on
any premises where the sale of cereal malt beverages is licensed for on-
premises consumption.
   (b)   This section shall not apply if the person under 21 years of age is an
employee of the licensed establishment, or is accompanied by his or her parent
or guardian, or if the licensed establishment derives not more than 30% of its
gross receipts in each calendar year from the sale of cereal malt beverages for
on-premises consumption.
ARTICLE 3: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
   
3-301   State license required
   
3-302   Occupational tax
   
3-303   Posting of receipt
   
3-304   Hours of sale
   
3-305   Business regulations
   
3-306   Restrictions on location
§ 3-301 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep for sale, offer for sale
or expose for sale or sell any alcoholic liquor as defined by the state’s
Liquor Control Act without first having obtained a state license to do so.
   (b)   The holder of a license for the retail sale in the city of alcoholic
liquors by the package issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control shall present such license to the City Clerk when applying to pay the
occupation tax levied in §
3-302 of this article and the tax shall be received and a receipt shall be
issued for the period covered by the state license.
§ 3-302 OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   There is hereby levied a biennial occupation tax of $600 on any person
holding a license issued by the state’s Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control
for the retail sale within the city of alcoholic liquors for consumption off
the premises. Such tax shall be paid by the retailer to the City Clerk before
business is begun under an original state license and shall be paid within five
days after any renewal of a state license.
(K.S.A. 41-310)
§ 3-303 POSTING OF RECEIPT.
   Every licensee under this article shall cause the city alcoholic liquor
retailer’s occupation tax receipt to be placed in plain view, next to or below
the state license in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
§ 3-304 HOURS OF SALE.
   No person shall sell at retail any alcoholic liquor:
   (a)   On Easter Sunday;
   (b)   On Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day; or
   (c)   Before 12:00 p.m. or after 8:00 p.m. on any Sunday when the sale
thereof is permitted.
(Ord. 1317, passed 9-19-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 41-712
§ 3-305 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a retailer of alcoholic liquor to:
   (a)   Permit any person to mix drinks in or on the licensed premises unless
the person is preparing or mixing samples for the purposes of conducting wine,
beer or distilled spirit tastings, or any combination thereof, as authorized by
K.S.A. 41-308d, and amendments thereto;
   (b)   Employ any person under the age of 21 years in connection with the
operation of the retail establishment;
   (c)   Employ any person in connection with the operation of the retail
establishment who has been adjudged guilty of a felony; and/or
   (d)   Sell, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver or permit the sale,
gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquor to or for any person under 21 years
of age.
(K.S.A. 41-713, 41-715)
§ 3-306 RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATION.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly or unknowingly sell, give away, furnish,
dispose of, procure, exchange or deliver or permit the selling, giving away,
furnishing, disposing of, procuring, exchanging or delivering of any alcoholic
beverage in any building, structure or premises, for consumption in such
building or upon such premises if such consumption is within 200 feet from the
nearest property line of any existing hospital, school, church or library.
   (b)   The restriction of division (a) does not apply to a retailer,
microbrewery, microdistillery or farm winery to be located within the core
commercial district which is described as (an area described using specific
streets to establish what is considered the core commercial district. It is
suggested that a separate ordinance be passed establishing this district and
not just done as part of codification).
(K.S.A. 41-710)
ARTICLE 4: PRIVATE CLUBS
Section
   
3-401   License required
   
3-402   License fee
   
3-403   Business regulations
§ 3-401 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a private club license by the
state to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage authorized
by such license within the city without first obtaining a local license from
the City Clerk.
§ 3-402 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a biennial license fee on each private club
located in the city which has a private club license issued by the State
Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which fee shall be paid before business
is begun under an original state license and within five days before the
license expires. The city license fee for a Class A club shall be $0 and the
city license fee for a Class B club shall be $0.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the city club license to be placed in plain
view next to or below the state license in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
§ 3-403 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No club licensed hereunder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage on its premises between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on any day.
   (b)   No club membership shall be sold to any person under 21 years of age,
nor shall alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages be given, sold or traded
to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
ARTICLE 5: DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
3-501   License required
   
3-502   License fee
   
3-503   Business regulations
§ 3-501 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a drinking establishment license
by the state to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage
authorized by such license within the city without first obtaining a city
license from the City Clerk.
§ 3-502 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a biennial license fee in the amount of $0 on
each drinking establishment located in the city which has a drinking
establishment license issued by the State Director of Alcoholic Beverage
Control, which fee shall be paid before business is begun under an original
state license and within five days after any renewal of a state license.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the city drinking establishment license to
be placed in plain view next to or below the state license in a conspicuous
place on the licensed premises.
§ 3-503 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No drinking establishment licensed hereunder shall allow the serving,
mixing or consumption of alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage on its
premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on any day.
   (b)   Cereal malt beverages may be sold on premises licensed for the retail
sale of cereal malt beverages for on-premises consumption at any time when
alcoholic liquor is allowed by law to be served on the premises.
   (c)   No alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages shall be given, sold
or traded to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
ARTICLE 6: CATERERS
Section
   
3-601   License required
   
3-602   License fee
   
3-603   Business regulations
   
3-604   Notice to County Sheriff
§ 3-601 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed by the state as a caterer to
offer for sale, to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage
by the drink within the city without obtaining a local caterer’s license from
the City Clerk.
§ 3-602 LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied an annual license fee in the amount of $0 on
each caterer doing business in the city who has a caterer’s license issued by
the state’s Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control, which fee shall be paid
before business is begun under an original state license and within five days
after any renewal of a state license.
   (b)   All applications for new or renewal city licenses shall be submitted
to the City Clerk. Upon presentation of a state license, payment of the city
license fee and the license application, the City Clerk shall issue a city
license for the period covered by the state license, if there are no conflicts
with any zoning or alcoholic beverage ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The license period shall extend for the period covered by the state
license. No license fee shall be refunded for any reason.
   (d)   Every licensee shall cause the caterer license to be placed in plain
view on any premises within the city where the caterer is serving or mixing
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises.
§ 3-603 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No caterer licensed hereunder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage between the hours of 2:
00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (b)   No alcoholic beverages or cereal malt beverages shall be given, sold
or traded to any person under 21 years of age.
(K.S.A. 41-2614)
§ 3-604 NOTICE TO COUNTY SHERIFF.
   Prior to any event at which a caterer will sell or serve alcoholic liquor by
the individual drink, the caterer shall provide written notice to the County
Sheriff at least 72 hours prior to the event if the event will take place
within the city. The notice shall contain the location, name of the group
sponsoring the event, and the exact date and times the caterer will be serving.
ARTICLE 7: TEMPORARY PERMITS
Section
   
3-701   Permit required
   
3-702   Permit fee
   
3-703   City temporary permit
   
3-704   Permit regulations
   
3-705   Temporary event cereal malt beverages permit
§ 3-701 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person granted a temporary permit by the state
to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage within the city
without first obtaining a local temporary permit from the City Clerk.
§ 3-702 PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a temporary permit fee in the amount of $25 on
each group or individual holding a temporary permit issued by the State
Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control authorizing sales within the city, which
fee shall be paid before the event is begun under the state permit.
   (b)   Every temporary permit holder shall cause the temporary permit receipt
to be placed in plain view on any premises within the city where the holder of
the temporary permit is serving or mixing alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises.
§ 3-703 CITY TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct an event under a
state issued temporary permit without first applying for a local temporary
permit at least three days before the event.
      (2)   Written application for the local temporary permit shall be made to
the City Clerk and shall clearly state:
         (A)   The name of the applicant;
         (B)   The group for which the event is planned;
         (C)   The location of the event;
         (D)   The date and time of the event; and
         (E)   Any anticipated need for police, fire or other municipal
services.
   (b)   Upon presentation of a state temporary permit, payment of the city’s
temporary permit fee and a written application as provided for in division (a)
above, the City Clerk shall issue a local temporary permit to the applicant if
there are no conflicts with any zoning or other ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall notify the County Sheriff whenever a temporary
permit has been issued and forward a copy of the permit and application to the
County Sheriff.
§ 3-704 PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No temporary permit holder shall allow the serving, mixing or
consumption of alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverage between the hours of 2:
00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. at any event for which a temporary permit has been
issued.
(K.A.R. 14-23-5)
   (b)   No alcoholic beverages shall be given, sold or traded to any person
under 21 years of age.
§ 3-705 TEMPORARY EVENT CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE PERMIT.
   (a)   Any provisions of this article to the contrary notwithstanding, the
City Council may issue to a charitable or non-profit organization which is not
the holder of an annual retail cereal malt beverage license, but which would
otherwise qualify for such a license, a temporary event cereal malt beverage
permit allowing for the sale and consumption of cereal malt beverages for
limited periods of time on specifically designated premises within the city.
   (b)   Such permit may be issued upon a verified application filed with the
City Clerk containing the following information:
      (1)   The name of the fraternal or non-profit organization;
      (2)   Name, address and phone number of the president and other officers
of the organization;
      (3)   The nature of the event or function for which the permit is
requested;
      (4)   The specific location(s) where the event will be conducted, which
need not comply with §
3-206 of this code of ordinances, as the use herein is temporary;
      (5)   The number of days or duration of the event;
      (6)   Such other information as may be required.
   (c)   Such application shall be submitted to the City Clerk at least five
days prior to the City Council meeting before the event; provided, however,
such time period may be waived by the Clerk when the nature and location of the
event are of common knowledge to the City Council.
   (d)   Each such permit shall extend for a period not to exceed seven
consecutive days. Not more than three separate temporary event permits may be
issued to any one organization during any calendar year. There must be at least
a five-day interval between the period of the coverage for each such permit to
any one organization.
   (e)   A temporary event permit fee of $25 shall accompany each permit
application along with any other fees as required.
   (f)   All other provisions of this chapter which are not contrary to or
inconsistent with the provisions set forth in this section shall be applicable
to the holder of a temporary event cereal malt beverage permit.
(Ord. 1314, passed 8-2-2005)
ARTICLE 8: SPECIAL EVENT CMB PERMITS
Section
   
3-801   Special event CMB permits; permit required
   
3-802   Same; permit fee
   
3-803   Same; city special event permit
   
3-804   Same; permit regulations
§ 3-801 SPECIAL EVENT CMB PERMITS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or serve any cereal malt
beverage at any special event within the city without first obtaining a local
special event permit from the City Clerk.
(K.S.A. 41-2703)
§ 3-802 SAME; PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied a special event permit fee in the amount of $25
on each group or individual, which fee shall be paid before the event begins.
Such fee shall be in addition to the $25 fee to be remitted to the Division of
Alcohol Beverage Control.
   (b)   Every special event permit holder shall cause the permit receipt to be
placed in plain view on any premises within the city where the holder of the
special event permit is serving CMB for consumption on the premises.
(K.S.A. 41-2702)
§ 3-803 SAME; CITY SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or serve cereal malt
beverages at a special event without first applying for a local special event
permit at least three days before the event. Written application for the local
special event permit shall be made to the City Clerk on the form used for
annual cereal malt beverage sales or, when available, the special event CMB
permit application approved by the Attorney General, as directed by the City
Clerk.
      (2)   In addition to any other information required, the applicant shall
provide the following:
         (A)   The name of the applicant;
         (B)   The group for which the event is planned;
         (C)   The location of the event;
         (D)   The date and time of the event; and
         (E)   Any anticipated need for police, fire or other municipal
services.
   (b)   Upon meeting the requirements to obtain a special event permit, the
City Clerk shall issue a local special event permit to the applicant if there
are no conflicts with any zoning or other ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall notify the County Sheriff whenever a special
event permit has been issued and forward a copy of the permit and application
to the County Sheriff.
§ 3-804 SAME; PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No special event permit holder shall allow the serving of cereal malt
beverage between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. at any event for which a
special event permit has been issued.
   (b)   No cereal malt beverage shall be given, sold or traded to any person
under 21 years of age.
   (c)   Not more than four special event permits may be issued in a calendar
year to the same applicant.
   (d)   No special event permit issued hereunder may be transferred or
assigned to any other vendor.
   (e)   All local ordinances and state statutes for the sale and consumption
of cereal malt beverage apply to holders of special event permits.
(K.S.A. 41-2703)
ARTICLE 9: KEG REGISTRATION
Section
   
3-901   Definitions
   
3-902   Retailer duties
   
3-903   Purchaser requirements
   
3-904   Identification requirements
   
3-905   Deposit refund
   
3-906   Violations
§ 3-901 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER. A beverage, containing more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, obtained by
alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or concoction of barley, or other grain,
malt and hops in water and includes beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and
similar beverages having such alcoholic content.
   CEREAL MALT BEVERAGE. Any fermented, but undistilled, liquor brewed or made
from malt or from a mixture of malt or malt substitute, but does not include
any such liquor which is more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   KEG. A reusable container of beer or cereal malt beverage having a liquid
capacity of four or more gallons.
   LEGAL AGE FOR CONSUMPTION. Twenty-one years of age.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, trust or association.
   PROPER PROOF OF IDENTIFICATION. A photographic motor vehicle operator’s
license, a valid passport, a United States military identification card, a
state photographic non-driver’s identification card, or other official or
apparently official document, containing a photograph, signature and birth date
of the person.
   RETAILER. A person who sells at retail, or offers for sale at retail, beer
or cereal malt beverage for use or consumption and not for resale in any form,
and includes sales of beer or cereal malt beverage in a keg returnable to the
seller. Such terms shall not refer to or mean sales by a distributor or sales
by one retailer to another.
   SELL or SELL AT RETAIL. Sales of beer or cereal malt beverage for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form, and includes sales of beer or
cereal malt beverage in a keg returnable to the seller. Such terms shall not
refer to or mean sales by a distributor or sales by one retailer to another.
§ 3-902 RETAILER DUTIES.
   A retailer, or retailer’s employee or agent, prior to or at the time of any
sale at retail of a keg, shall:
   (a)   Affix or cause to be affixed to the keg a keg identification tag, in
accordance with the provisions of §
3-904 of this article;
   (b)   Require the purchaser to exhibit proper proof of identification. If
the purchaser fails to provide such proof of identification, the retailer shall
refuse to sell the keg to such person;
   (c)   Require the purchaser to sign a declaration and receipt for the keg in
the form provided for in §
3-904 of this article;
   (d)   Record on the declaration the keg identification tag number, the date
of sale, the purchaser’s name and address and the type, number and expiration
date of the purchaser’s identification;
   (e)   Inform the purchaser, that any deposit paid by the purchaser for the
keg, if required, shall be forfeited if the keg is returned without the
original keg identification tag intact and readable;
   (f)   Require each purchaser of any such keg to acknowledge as part of the
declaration that persons under 21 are not of legal age for consumption of beer
or cereal malt beverage and that the declaration is subject to inspection by
the County Sheriff; and
   (g)   Provide a copy of the declaration and receipt to the purchaser.
§ 3-903 PURCHASER REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person who purchases a keg or the contents thereof shall:
   (a)   Be of legal age to purchase, possess or use beer and cereal malt
beverage;
   (b)   Provide proof of identification and such other information as the
retailer may require in accordance with §
3-902 of this article;
   (c)   Sign a declaration and receipt in the form required by §
3-902 of this article;
   (d)   Not allow any person under the age of 21 to consume the keg contents
except as allowed by law;
   (e)   Not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or obliterated, the keg
identification tag required by §
3-902 of this article; and
   (f)   Maintain a copy of the declaration and receipt with the keg during the
time the keg is in the purchaser’s possession or control.
§ 3-904 IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   The keg identification tag required under this article shall be in the
form of a uniquely numbered and coded tag or label, prescribed and furnished by
the City Clerk. Such tag or label is used for a single sale of the marked keg
and is to be removed from the keg by the retailer upon return of the keg to the
retail seller and maintained with the records of the sale. Such tags shall be
fabricated and made attachable in such a manner as to make the tag removable
for the purpose of the cleaning and reusing of the keg by a manufacturer.
   (b)   The declaration and receipt required shall be on a form prescribed and
furnished by the City Clerk and shall include the information as required by §§
3-902 and
3-903 of this article, and may include such other identifying information as
the City Clerk may deem necessary and appropriate.
   (c)   (1)   Retailers may apply for and receive keg identification tags and
declaration and receipt forms from the City Clerk upon submittal of an
application on a form as prescribed by the City Clerk and such proof as may be
required by the City Clerk that the applicant is duly licensed to sell beer or
cereal malt beverages in a keg.
      (2)   The City Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for furnishing the tags
and forms required by this article not to exceed the actual cost of furnishing
such tags and forms.
   (d)   The retailer shall retain a copy of all such declarations and receipts
required on the retailer’s licensed premises for a period of six months. Such
declarations and receipts shall be available for inspection and copying by the
County Sheriff during normal business hours for the purpose of identifying
persons suspected of a violation of law.
   (e)   Falsifying any information on a declaration and receipt shall be a
violation of this section.
§ 3-905 DEPOSIT REFUND.
   No retailer may refund any deposit upon return of a keg that:
   (a)   Does not have the required identification tag; or
   (b)   Has an identification tag that has been defaced to the extent that the
information contained on the tag cannot be read.
§ 3-906 VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Remove from a keg all or part of a keg identification tag required
pursuant to this article;
      (2)   Deface a keg identification tag to the extent the information
contained on the tag cannot be read;
      (3)   Fail to return a keg within ten days of the due date; or
      (4)   Possess a keg that does not have the keg identification tag.
   (b)   Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply to a
manufacturer, distributor or retailer, and division (a)(4) above shall not
apply to any person who finds a discarded keg on such person’s property.
CHAPTER IV: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
   Article
      
1.   FIRE LIMITS
      
2.   BUILDING CODE
      
3.   PLUMBING AND GAS-FITTING CODE
      
4.   ELECTRICAL CODE
      
5.   DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
      
6.   MOVING BUILDINGS
      
7.   NUMBERING BUILDINGS
      
8.   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
      
9.   DISH-TYPE ANTENNA
      
10.   WATER WELLS
      
11.   INTERMODAL CONTAINERS
ARTICLE 1: FIRE LIMITS
Section
   
4-101   Fire limits
§ 4-101 FIRE LIMITS.
   The following shall be and are hereby declared to be the fire limits: all of
the land in the following described blocks in the city:
Block Range
Block                Range
1                    3 Bissell’s Addition
1                    4 Bissell’s Addition
1                    5 Bissell’s Addition
East half of Block 1 2 Bissell’s Addition
1                    4 Original Town
2                    4 Original Town
3                    4 Original Town
4                    4 Original Town
5                    4 Original Town
6                    4 Original Town
7                    4 Original Town
6                    5 Original Town
7                    5 Original Town
6                    3 Original Town
7                    3 Original Town
 
ARTICLE 2: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
4-201   Definitions
   
4-202   International Building Code incorporated
   
4-203   Additional provisions
   
4-204   Building Official; powers; duties
   
4-205   Building Inspector; appointment
   
4-206   Same; duties
   
4-207   Same; powers
   
4-208   Same; right of entry
   
4-209   Clarification; modification
   
4-210   Building permit required; application; approval
   
4-211   Same; application information required
   
4-212   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-213   Same; fees
   
4-214   Same; posting
   
4-215   Certificate of approval
   
4-216   Inspections of building; layout of building; foundations and footings;
notice to Inspector
   
4-217   Request for inspection
   
4-218   Inspection fee
   
4-219   Builder or building contractor defined
   
4-220   Builder’s or building contractor’s license required; building permits;
unlawful acts
   
4-221   Same; application; granting
   
4-222   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-223   Builder’s or building contractor’s bond required; conditions; approval;
rights reserved
   
4-224   Insurance
   
4-225   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-226   Work by property owners
   
4-227   Liability
   
4-228   Severability
§ 4-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Mayor or his or her designee.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney of the City of Phillipsburg.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Phillipsburg, Kansas.
§ 4-202 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, for the purpose
of establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration,
removal, demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of
buildings and structures, the International Building Code, 2021 Edition, as
recommended by the International Conference of Building Officials, such code
being made as a part of the ordinances and code of the city as if the same had
been set out in full herein, all as authorized and in the manner prescribed by
K.S.A. 12-3009 through 12-3012 including any amendments thereto. One copy of
the International Building Code, 2012 Edition, shall be marked or stamped
“Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of Phillipsburg”, and
shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to
the public at all reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating any provision of such code shall be punished as
provided in §
1-116 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1351, passed 2-2-2009)
§ 4-203 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-202 of this article.
§ 4-204 BUILDING OFFICIAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (a)   This and other articles of the city relating generally to building and
structures shall be administered and enforced by the Public Works Supervisor or
his or her appointee. The Public Works Supervisor or his or her appointee shall
act as Chief Building Official and may assume the responsibilities of or with
the consent and approval of the governing body appoint a Building Inspector and
such other assistants as may be advisable for the issuance of building permits
and the inspection of building work.
   (b)   The Public Works Supervisor or his or her appointee shall prepare such
application, permit, inspection and record forms as may be required for the
purposes of the article. The Public Works Supervisor may make and promulgate
the necessary rules and regulations to obtain conformity with this article
pertaining to the making of applications for building permits, issuing of
building permits, and inspecting of buildings and building works.
§ 4-205 BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Public Works Supervisor or his or her appointee may assume the
responsibilities of or appoint some qualified officer or employee of the city
to be and perform the duties of Building Inspector as may be required, subject
to the consent and approval of the governing body.
§ 4-206 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Building Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to construction, alteration,
repair, removal and demolition of building and structures;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction, not provided for in this article, and may, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted standard
of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus, national,
technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings in the process of erection, construction,
alteration or relocation in the city for the purpose of determining whether the
work is in compliance with the permit given and in compliance with the
regulations of the city pertaining to such work, including zoning regulations;
and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official without his or her written consent.
§ 4-207 SAME; POWERS.
   The Building Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the building regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any builder or owner to appeal to the governing body.
§ 4-208 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Building Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-209 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Building Code which may be unclear, ambiguous
or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Building Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Building Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Building Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code is
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Inspector
thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Building Inspector and a
signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-210 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected
within the city any building or structure of any kind or enlarge or add to the
outside dimension thereof, or relocate any building or structure already
erected or which may hereafter be erected or remodeled any building or
structure within the city without a building permit being first issued by the
building inspection application to the City Clerk and upon payment of a permit
fee according to the schedule on file in the office of the City Clerk as fixed
by the City Council. The application for such permit shall be made and the
permit obtained before work is commenced upon any building or structure or the
foundation thereof, or before the removal of any building.
   (b)   Every permit issued by the Building Inspector under the provisions of
the Uniform Building Code shall expire by limitation and become null and void
if the building or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180
days from the date of such permit, or if the building or work authorized by
such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced
for a period of 180 days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit
shall be first obtained to do so, and the fee therefor shall be one-half the
amount required for a new permit for such work; provided, no changes have been
made or will be made in the original plans and specifications for such work;
and, provided further that, such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one
year. In order to renew action on a permit after work has been suspended or
abandoned for one year or more, the permittee shall pay a new full permit fee.
Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for an extension of the
time within which work may commence under that permit when the permittee is
unable to commence work within the time required for good and satisfactory
reasons. The Building Inspector may extend the time for action by the permittee
for a period not exceeding 180 days on written request by the permittee showing
that circumstances on written request by the permittee showing that
circumstances beyond the control of the permittee have prevented action from
being taken. No permit shall be extended more than once.
   (c)   Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in §
1-115 of the code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1245, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 4-211 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   A building permit shall be issued upon an application in writing
to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The building work proposed;
         (D)   The outside dimensions of the building by floors and dimensions
of the basement (if any);
         (E)   The class of occupancy;
         (F)   The class of construction;
         (G)   The kind of materials to be used for walls, floors, ceilings,
roofs and foundations;
         (H)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (I)   The date work will commence;
         (J)   Expected date of completion;
         (K)   Name and address of contractor or contractors doing the work;
and
         (L)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   (1)   An application for a building permit shall be signed by the
owner or his or her duly authorized agent, or a building contractor licensed by
the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her agent, it shall
contain the name or names of the licensed contractor or contractors doing the
work described, or a building permit may be issued to the owner upon his or her
application disclosing satisfactory evidence that the proposed work will be
performed by the owner, himself or herself and not by a licensed contractor,
and likewise subject to the final approval of the Building Inspector for work
performed.
      (2)   If an application for a building permit indicates that it is for
commercial or residential roofing services, including construction,
installation, renovation, repair, maintenance, alteration or water-proofing,
the application shall include the contractor’s name, the contractor’s place of
business within the city (and home office if not a resident), the contractor’s
state registration number as issued under the State Roofing Registration Act
(K.S.A. 50-6,121 et seq.), and shall also be signed by the roofing contractor
or contractor’s authorized agent; provided, however, that this division (b)(2)
shall not apply to:
         (A)   An actual owner of commercial or residential property who
physically performs, or has employees who perform, roofing services on such
owner’s own dwelling or other structures located on the residential property
without the assistance of a registered roofing contractor;
         (B)   To those persons identified in K.S.A. 50-6,129(a)(1) through (a)
(8), and amendments there to; or
         (C)   To an “exempt general contractor”, as defined in K.S.A. 50-
6,122, and amendments thereto.
      (3)   If the application for a building permit indicates that it involves
renovation, repairing or painting of a home or child-occupied facility,
including day care centers and schools, built before 1978 and will disturb six
square feet of painted interior surfaces or 20 square feet of painted exterior
surfaces, the contractor performing the services must furnish proof of state
certification as a licensed renovation firm or renovator; provided, however,
that this division (b)(3) does not apply to a home owner performing work on an
owner-occupied residence. In addition, this division (b)(3) does not apply to
any other exception or exemption set forth in the State Department of Health
and Environment Residential Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program, as
described in K.A.R. 28-72-1:54 and in 40 C.F.R. pt. 745, and amendments
thereto.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application, including, if required,
the verification of state roofer registration or other state certification, and
a determination that a permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or
his or her assistant shall issue a permit to the owner or contractor
authorizing the building work covered by the application. If applicable, the
permit shall include the roofer registration number or any other certification
or license number issued by the state.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the building work
authorized by such permit. BUILDING WORK COMMENCED for the purpose of this
section shall mean the beginning of building work other than the preparation of
plans or the staking out of the building location or the letting of a building
contract.
§ 4-212 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a building permit is made, the Chief Building
Official may, if he or she finds it necessary to determine whether building
work described in the application will comply with the laws pertaining to such
work, require that the applicant file a written description or drawing of the
proposed building as may be prepared for the purpose. If such drawing or
description is insufficient for the purposes of determining whether a permit
should be issued, the Building Official may require the applicant to file
complete architectural and engineering plans and specifications for such
building, or any part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to
determine compliance with this article. The filing of such plans and
specifications and the approval thereof in connection with an application for a
permit shall not in any way affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a
permit, or to inspect any building work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-213 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for a building permit will be as follows:
   (a)   $0.02 per square foot of the main floor;
   (b)   $0.01 per square foot of the basement or additional floor; and
   (c)   $10 minimum fee for all building permits.
(Res. 257, passed 5-21-2018)
§ 4-214 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the building permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Building Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof.
§ 4-215 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   Upon the completion of any work under a building permit, the Chief Building
Official or the Building Inspector or his or her designee is authorized to
issue a certificate of approval for the occupancy and use of the building or
structure. The certificate shall show the number of inspections made and the
orders and corrections required during the course of the work. A copy of such
certificate shall be given the owner.
§ 4-216 INSPECTIONS OF BUILDING; LAYOUT OF BUILDING; FOUNDATIONS AND FOOTINGS;
NOTICE TO INSPECTOR.
   (a)   The contractor or builder having a permit for new construction, or
additions to existing buildings, shall notify the Chief Building Official or
Building Inspector immediately upon the marking or laying out of the site and
foundation for such work. The Official or Inspector shall inspect the layout
for conformity with this article and with respect to lot lines, setbacks and
location of the proposed buildings to determine conformity with the city zoning
regulations. In case of doubt respecting the required location, the Chief
Building Official may require an official survey of the lot lines to determine
conformity, at the expense of the permit holder.
   (b)   Upon completion of the excavation for the building foundation and
footings and the construction of the necessary forms thereof and before the
foundation and footings are poured or laid, the Official or Inspector shall be
notified as in the first case, and it shall be his or her duty to inspect all
such work for conformity with laws respecting location of the building
foundations and footings.
   (c)   The Building Inspector shall, during the course of all building, make
such other inspections as may be directed by the Chief Building Official to be
made during any successive stage of the construction or other work covered by a
permit in order to secure compliance with laws pertaining thereto.
§ 4-217 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any building construction work covered by this
article, it shall be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the
Building Inspector and request that it be inspected; after which such work
shall be inspected promptly as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-218 INSPECTION FEE.
   An initial inspection fee as set by policy of the governing body, and an
inspection fee as set by policy of the governing body, for subsequent
inspections required shall be paid before any building or construction work
will be approved or a certificate of approval issued.
§ 4-219 BUILDER OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDER or BUILDING CONTRACTOR.
      (1)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association, or any
combination thereof, whether a resident or not of the city:
         (A)   Who or which undertakes with or for another, for a fixed sum,
price, fee or any compensation other than wages, to build, construct, alter,
repair, add to, wreck or move any building or structure (or any portion
thereof), or any sidewalk, driveway entrance or structure in any street, or any
advertising sign, panel poster or billboard, or any other structure, in the
city, for which a building or construction permit may now or hereafter be
required by the laws of the city;
         (B)   Who or which advertises or represents himself, herself or itself
to the public to have the capacity or ability to undertake, or submit a bid or
offer to build, construct, alter, repair, add to or wreck, remove, restore or
replace any building, structure or construction work or any portion thereof; or
         (C)   Who or which builds, constructs, alters, adds to or wrecks any
buildings or structures either on his or her own or other property for purposes
of sale or speculation.
      (2)   A BUILDER or BUILDING CONTRACTOR shall not mean or include:
         (A)   Any subcontractor, except for a roofing contractor, working
under the supervision of a general contractor;
         (B)   Any plumbers, gas-fitters, electricians or other specialized
occupation for which special licenses or bonds are required by other city laws;
         (C)   Any owner or his or her authorized agents or employees making
ordinary repairs to his, her or its own building or structure not involving the
structural parts of the building for which a permit is not required or on which
a contractor, as defined, is not required, employed or engaged to perform; or
         (D)   Any property owner personally performing any improvements,
alterations or building construction within or upon his or her own residence
and intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided,
the owner shall satisfy the Building Official as to his or her ability to
perform such work secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in accordance
with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive approval. Personal
building construction by an owner under this section shall be by himself,
herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence, without
compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on
such work except a builder or building contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-220 BUILDER’S OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; BUILDING PERMITS;
UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each builder or building contractor shall before entering upon any
building or construction work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to the
City Clerk for a builder’s or building contractor’s license and receive the
same as hereinafter provided and have in his or her possession a valid license
authorizing him, her or it to engage in the trade or occupation of a builder or
building contractor in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any building or construction work shall be issued for
any such work to be performed by a builder or building contractor, as defined,
who has not first obtained a license upon making a proper application and
payment of the license fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of builder or building
contractor herein, or to perform any work as a builder or building contractor
or any work under a contract for any work involving the construction, wrecking
or moving of any building, without first having obtained a builder’s or
building contractor’s license issued by the city.
§ 4-221 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   (a)   Application for a builder’s or building contractor’s license shall be
made upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of
the applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a
non-resident), the kind of contracting work engaged in (as general contracting,
roofing, siding, masonry, plastering, lathing, excavating, water-proofing,
metal work, foundation work, sign hanging, cement work and painting and paper
hanging, house wrecking, or moving and the like), the length of time engaged in
such work and places where work has been performed within the past two years.
The application shall be signed by the builder or building contractor or his or
her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the Chief Building
Official, referred to the governing body at its next meeting for action
thereon. Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of the
fees hereinafter provided after approval of the governing body.
   (b)   If the applicant is in the business of a roofing contractor, as
defined by the Kansas Roofing Registration Act (KRRA), K.S.A. 50-6,121 et seq.,
and amendments thereto, the applicant shall be required to have a valid state
registration as required under the KRRA and shall present such certificate to
the City Clerk when applying for a builder’s or building contractor’s license.
No such license shall be issued until it is verified that the roofing
contractor is in good standing pursuant to the KRRA; provided, however, that
this division (b) does not apply to an “exempt general contractor” as defined
in K.S.A. 50-6,122, and amendments thereto.
§ 4-222 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The following license fees as set by policy of the governing
body shall be paid for the calendar year or major fraction thereof:
         (A)   General builder or building contractor;
         (B)   Limited builder or building contractor;
         (C)   House wreckers or movers;
         (D)   Sign hangers and panel posters; and
         (E)   Roofing contractor.
      (2)   Any license issued on or after July 1 of each year shall be issued
upon payment of one-half the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of contract work in which
the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her license at any
place where he or she may be engaged in contract work or produce the same on
demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable annually as in the
case of an original license on or before January 1 of the year for which
issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
§ 4-223 BUILDER’S OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR’S BOND REQUIRED; CONDITIONS; APPROVAL;
RIGHTS RESERVED.
   (a)   Before any license shall be issued to any builder or building
contractor required by this article to obtain a license and pay a fee to the
city, the builder or building contractor shall secure and file with the City
Clerk a good and sufficient corporate surety bond in the principal sum as set
by policy of the governing body, conditioned that the principal named therein
shall faithfully and fully observe all laws of the city relating to the
business or occupation for which a license is desired and further conditioned
to hold and save the city harmless and free of claims for loss or damage to
persons or property, or from damage, injury or destruction of property
belonging to the city, resulting from, or arising out of, the negligence or
failure of the principal or any of his, her or its employees, agents or
servants to use due care or diligence respecting any opening or excavation made
in, or adjacent to any street, alley or public ground in the city, or any
materials stored, placed or used in any such places, or the operation or use of
any vehicle, machinery or equipment in the streets, alleys or public grounds in
connection with the business or occupation licensed. Each such bond shall be
issued by a company authorized to do business in the state and shall be
executed by an agent of the company residing in the county and further
conditioned that in the event of cancellation or expiration that the company or
agent will give ten days’ notice of such fact to the City Clerk. Each such bond
shall be approved as to form by the City Attorney and approved as to surety by
the City Treasurer and the approval thereof shall be endorsed on the bond by
the City Attorney and by the Mayor over their signatures.
   (b)   Each bond shall be dated to run from the first day of any license
issued by the city to the principal and may cover a period of not to exceed two
years. No bond shall be renewed by an extension certificate but a new bond
shall be filed by the principal for each successive period following the
renewal thereof. The city reserves the right to furnish the form of all surety
bonds as may be required by this article.
§ 4-224 INSURANCE.
   In addition to obtaining a corporate surety bond as required by §
4-223 of this article, a builder or building contractor must procure and
maintain a liability insurance policy in the amount of $100,000 for the death
or injury of any one person and $300,000 for the death or injury of any number
of persons in any one accident and $50,000 for property damage in any one
accident. Such policies of insurance shall be issued by some insurance company
authorized to do business in the state. A builder or building contractor may
qualify as to the insurance requirements by filing a certificate with the City
Clerk executed by the resident agent of such company stating that the required
policy of insurance has been issued by such company for the purpose required by
this article and that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon
giving 30 days’ notice in writing to the city; and that the certificate shall
be filed for an annual period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of
such year.
§ 4-225 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any builder or building contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Building Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such builder or building
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such builder or building contractor involving any
one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain a building permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any building or construction work without a
permit where one is required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the building and
construction laws, or failure to comply with any lawful order of the City
Building Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the governing
body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The governing body may upon such
hearing terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the builder or
building contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period of
six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the suspension or
revocation of any contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of builder
or building contractor during the time any license of such builder or building
contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-226 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
performing any building or construction work within and upon his or her own
residence and intended for his or her personal use and permanent occupancy;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the Building Inspector as to his or her
ability to perform such work, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive a
certificate of approval. Personal building or construction performed by an
owner under this section shall be by himself, herself, for himself or herself
on his or her own residence, without compensation and no person shall be
employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except a builder or
building contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-227 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from any liability or lessen
the liability of any person performing any activity connected herewith, nor
shall the city be held as assuming any liability by reason of any inspection
authorized herein, by reason of any certificate of inspection issued by it or
by reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-228 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the International Building Code or of this article shall
be held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the
remaining sections, the section to be completely severable from the remaining
provisions which shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 3: PLUMBING AND GAS-FITTING CODE
Section
   
4-301   Definition
   
4-302   Uniform Plumbing Code incorporated
   
4-303   Additional provisions
   
4-304   Building Official; authority
   
4-305   Plumbing Inspector; appointment
   
4-306   Same; duties
   
4-307   Same; powers
   
4-308   Same; right of entry
   
4-309   Clarification; modification
   
4-310   Plumbing permit required; exception
   
4-311   Same; application information required
   
4-312   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-313   Same; fees
   
4-314   Same; posting
   
4-315   Request for inspection
   
4-316   Inspection; concealment of prior work
   
4-317   Inspection fee
   
4-318   Certificate of approval
   
4-319   Connection to gas or water supply
   
4-320   Condemnation; appeal
   
4-321   Plumber or plumbing contractor; defined
   
4-322   Plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license required; plumbing permits;
unlawful acts
   
4-323   Same; application; granting
   
4-324   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-325   Plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s bond required; conditions; approval;
rights reserved
   
4-326   Insurance
   
4-327   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-328   Excavations
   
4-329   Work by property owners
   
4-330   Approved materials
   
4-331   Liability
   
4-332   Severability
§ 4-301 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLUMBING. The installation of gas or water pipes, fixtures, apparatus and
the necessary connections either for supplying gas or water to premises or for
the removing of liquid and water-borne wastes from premises in the city, or
both such purposes, and shall also denote installed fixtures, drainage and vent
systems and gas or water distribution systems as the case may be.
§ 4-302 UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE INCORPORATED.
   (a)   There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, for the purpose
of establishing rules and regulations for the practice of plumbing and gas-
fitting, including the installation, maintenance, extension and alteration of
all pipes, fixtures, appliances and appurtenances in connection with sanitary
sewers and public and private water and fuel gas systems, the Uniform Plumbing
Code, 2012 Edition, as recommended by the International Association of Plumbing
and Mechanical Officials, such code being made as a part of the ordinances and
code of the city as if the same had been set out in full herein, all as
authorized and in the manner prescribed by K.S.A. 12-3009 through 12-3012
including any amendments thereto. One copy of the uniform code shall be marked
or stamped “Official Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of
Phillipsburg”, and shall be filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection
and available to the public at all reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating any provisions of such code shall be punished as
provided in §
1-116 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1351, passed 2-2-2009)
§ 4-303 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-302.
§ 4-304 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The Public Works Supervisor or his or her authorized designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article and
appointment of a Plumbing Inspector in accordance with §
4-204, which apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-305 PLUMBING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor may assume the responsibilities of or appoint some qualified
officer or employee of the city to be and perform the duties of Plumbing
Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and approval of the
governing body.
§ 4-306 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to plumbing construction,
alteration, repair or removal;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of construction, not provided for in this article, and may, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted standard
of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus, national,
technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings in the process of erection, construction,
alteration or relocation in the city for the purpose of determining whether the
work is in compliance with the plumbing permit given and in compliance with the
regulations of the city pertaining to such work, including zoning regulations;
and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official or Plumbing Inspector without his or her written consent.
§ 4-307 SAME; POWERS.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the plumbing regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any plumber, plumbing contractor or owner to appeal to the
governing body.
§ 4-308 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Plumbing Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-309 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Plumbing Code which may be unclear, ambiguous
or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Plumbing Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Plumbing Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code is
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Inspector
thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Plumbing Inspector and a
signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-310 PLUMBING PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to install, alter or reconstruct any plumbing or
plumbing system, as defined by the Plumbing Code and §
4-301 of this article, in any building in the city without first making
application to and receiving a permit therefor from the City Clerk, after
approval by the Chief Building Official or his or her authorized assistant. The
application for such permit shall be made and the permit obtained before any
plumbing work is commenced.
   (b)   No permit shall be required for making minor repairs of any plumbing
including repair of leaks in water pipes, traps or cocks, opening up stoppage
in waste or supply pipes, traps or drains, replacing fixtures when waste pipes
are not disturbed, or replacing frozen pipes inside the building, and like
repair work not involving original installation or reconstruction.
§ 4-311 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   A plumbing permit shall be issued upon an application in writing
to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The plumbing work proposed;
         (D)   The class of occupancy;
         (E)   The class of construction;
         (F)   The kind of materials to be used;
         (G)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (H)   The date work will commence;
         (I)   Expected date of completion;
         (J)   Name and address of plumber, plumbing contractor or contractors
doing the work; and
         (K)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   An application for a plumbing permit shall be signed by the owner or
his or her duly authorized agent, or a plumber or plumbing contractor licensed
by the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her agent, it
shall contain the name or names of the licensed plumber, plumbing contractor or
contractors doing the work described, or a plumbing permit may be issued to the
owner upon his or her application disclosing satisfactory evidence that the
proposed work will be performed by the owner, himself or herself and not by a
licensed plumber or plumbing contractor, and likewise subject to the final
approval of the Plumbing Inspector for work performed.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application and a determination that a
permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or his or her assistant
shall issue a permit to the owner or contractor authorizing the plumbing work
covered by the application.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the plumbing work
authorized by such permit. Plumbing work commenced for the purpose of this
section shall mean the beginning of plumbing work other than the preparation of
plans or the letting of a plumbing contract.
§ 4-312 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a plumbing permit is made, the Chief Building
Official or the Plumbing Inspector may, if he or she finds it necessary to
determine whether work described in the application will comply with the laws
pertaining to such work, require that the applicant file a written description
or drawing of the proposed plumbing construction as may be prepared for the
purpose. If such drawing or description is insufficient for the purposes of
determining whether a permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or
the Plumbing Inspector may require the applicant to file complete architectural
and engineering plans and specifications for such building or construction, or
any part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to determine compliance
with this article. The filing of such plans and specifications and the approval
thereof in connection with an application for a permit shall not in any way
affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a permit, or to inspect any
plumbing work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-313 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for a plumbing permit shall be set by policy of the governing body.
The fee herein shall be paid to the City Clerk upon obtaining a plumbing permit
and the same shall be credited to the General Operating Fund of the city.
§ 4-314 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the plumbing permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Plumbing Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved plans
to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work to
the completion thereof.
§ 4-315 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any plumbing work covered by this article, it shall
be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the Plumbing Inspector and
request that it be inspected; after which such work shall be inspected promptly
as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-316 INSPECTION; CONCEALMENT OF PRIOR WORK.
   (a)   When any plumbing is to be hidden from view by the permanent placement
of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing the
plumbing shall notify the Plumbing Inspector and such equipment shall not be
concealed until it has been inspected, approved or authorized by the Plumbing
Inspector or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays,
shall have elapsed from the time of such notification. On large installations,
where the concealment of plumbing proceeds continuously, the person, firm or
corporation installing the plumbing shall give the Plumbing Inspector due
notice and inspections shall be made periodically during the progress of the
work.
   (b)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the authority to require owners or
contractors to open such work which, in any manner, conceals plumbing that has
been closed without his or her knowledge or permission, and in no case shall
the Inspector issue a certificate of approval until satisfied that the work is
in accordance with the provisions of this article. The Inspector shall also
have the right to refuse to issue a certificate of approval on any plumbing,
that is concealed in such manner that it cannot be fully determined that it has
been done in accordance with this article.
§ 4-317 INSPECTION FEE.
   An initial inspection fee and an inspection fee for subsequent inspections
required shall be as set by policy of the governing body and shall be paid
before any plumbing will be approved or a certificate of approval issued.
§ 4-318 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (a)   When the Plumbing Inspector finds plumbing construction to be in
conformity with the provisions of this article, he or she shall issue to the
person, firm or corporation performing the plumbing construction, a certificate
of approval, with duplicate copy for delivery to the owner, authorizing the use
of the plumbing system and connection to the supply of gas or water, as the
case may be.
   (b)   When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection
and use of a temporary gas or water supply, the certificate shall expire at a
time to be stated therein and shall be revocable for cause by the Plumbing
Inspector.
   (c)   In no case shall certificates of approval be issued on plumbing or
plumbing systems or parts of systems where the work installed does not conform
to the requirements of this article.
   (d)   If, upon inspection, the plumbing or plumbing system is not found to
be fully in conformity with the provisions of this article, the Plumbing
Inspector shall immediately notify the person, firm or corporation making the
installation of the existing defects.
   (e)   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the plumbing or
plumbing system has been installed in strict conformity with the provisions of
this article and unless the plumbing or plumbing system is made in compliance
with nationally approved methods of construction for safety to life and
property as herein set forth.
   (f)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be deemed the judge of whether the
plumbing or plumbing system has been made in accordance with the requirements
of this article.
   (g)   No certificate of approval shall be required for making minor repairs
of any plumbing including repair of leaks in water pipes, traps or cocks,
opening up stoppage in waste or supply pipes, traps or drains, replacing
fixtures when waste pipes are not disturbed, or replacing frozen pipes inside
the building, and like repair work not involving original installation or
reconstruction.
§ 4-319 CONNECTION TO GAS OR WATER SUPPLY.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make
connection to a supply of gas or water for which an inspection is required, or
which has been disconnected by the order of the Plumbing Inspector, until a
certificate of approval has been issued by the Plumbing Inspector authorizing
the connection and use of such plumbing or plumbing system.
   (b)   The Plumbing Inspector may, at his or her discretion, authorize a
temporary connection.
§ 4-320 CONDEMNATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   If in the judgment of the Plumbing Inspector, after inspection, the
plumbing or plumbing system in any building are unsafe or dangerous to persons
or property, the Inspector shall have the power to cause the plumbing or
plumbing system to be disconnected from the supply of gas or water and may, at
his or her discretion, seal the control valves for the same in a closed or
disconnected position, whereupon he or she shall give notice to the owner, or
his or her agent, or by posting such notice at the site and shall also notify
the utilities serving the premises. Thereafter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to cause or permit gas or water to be supplied to the plumbing or
plumbing system so sealed until they shall have been made safe and the
Inspector shall have issued a certificate of approval to that effect.
   (b)   When the Plumbing Inspector condemns all or part of any plumbing
system, the owner may, within ten days after receiving written notice thereof,
file a petition in writing for review of the action of the Plumbing Inspector
by the governing body, upon the receipt of which the governing body shall at
once proceed to determine the facts, and within ten days from receiving the
petition make a decision in accordance with their findings.
§ 4-321 PLUMBER OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR; DEFINED.
   (a)   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PLUMBER or PLUMBING CONTRACTOR.
         (A)   Any person engaged in the business of installing, altering,
maintaining or repairing plumbing, which shall include all materials and
plumbing fixtures, water pipes, portable water treatment equipment, traps,
drainage and vent piping, and building drains, including their respective
points, connections, devices, receptacles and appurtenances located within the
property lines of any premises or in any building; and
         (B)   Any gas-fitter or person engaged in the business of installing,
altering or repairing fuel gas piping, gas systems or fixtures.
   (b)   A plumber or plumbing contractor as defined in division (a) above
shall not mean or include the owner of a residence who personally installs
plumbing piping or equipment within and upon his or her own residence and
intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided, the
owner shall satisfy the Plumbing Inspector as to his or her ability to install
such piping or equipment, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article and apply for an inspection and receive approval.
Personal installation by an owner under this section shall be himself, herself,
for himself or herself on his or her own residence, without compensation and no
person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except a
plumber or plumbing contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-322 PLUMBER’S OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; PLUMBING PERMITS;
UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each plumber or plumbing contractor shall, before entering upon any
plumbing work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to the City Clerk for a
plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license and receive the same as hereinafter
provided and have in his or her possession a valid license authorizing him, her
or it to engage in the trade or occupation of a plumber or plumbing contractor
in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any plumbing work shall be issued for any such work to
be performed by a plumber or plumbing contractor, as defined, who has not first
obtained a license upon making a proper application and payment of the license
fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of a plumber or plumbing
contractor herein, or to perform any work as a plumber or plumbing contractor
or any work under a contract for any work involving plumbing construction,
without first having obtained a plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license
issued by the city.
§ 4-323 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   Application for a plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license shall be made
upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of the
applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a non-
resident), the kind of contracting work engaged in, the length of time engaged
in such work and places where work has been performed within the past two
years. The application shall be signed by the plumber or plumbing contractor or
his or her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the Chief Building
Official referred to the governing body at its next meeting for action thereon.
Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of the fees
hereinafter provided after approval of the governing body.
§ 4-324 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The following license fees shall be paid for the calendar year
or major fraction thereof:
         (A)   General plumber or plumbing contractor, who shall qualify to
engage in more than one kind of plumbing work; and
         (B)   Limited plumber or plumbing contractor, who shall qualify to
engage in not more than one kind of plumbing work.
      (2)   Any license issued on or after July 1 of each year shall be issued
upon payment of one-half the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of plumbing work in which
the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her license at any
place where he or she may be engaged in plumbing work or produce the same on
demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable annually as in the
case of an original license on or before January 1 of the year for which
issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
§ 4-325 PLUMBER’S OR PLUMBING CONTRACTOR’S BOND REQUIRED; CONDITIONS; APPROVAL;
RIGHTS RESERVED.
   (a)   Before any license shall be issued to any plumber or plumbing
contractor required by this article to obtain a license and pay a fee to the
city, the plumber or plumbing contractor shall secure and file with the City
Clerk a good and sufficient corporate surety bond in the principal sum as set
by policy of the governing body, conditioned that the principal named therein
shall faithfully and fully observe all laws of the city relating to the
business or occupation for which a license is desired and further conditioned
to hold and save the city harmless and free of claims for loss or damage to
persons or property, or from damage, injury or destruction of property
belonging to the city, resulting from, or arising out of, the negligence or
failure of the principal or any of his, her or its employees, agents or
servants to use due care or diligence respecting any opening or excavation made
in, or adjacent to any street, alley or public ground in the city, or any
materials stored, placed or used in any such places, or the operation or use of
any vehicle, machinery or equipment in the streets, alleys or public grounds in
connection with the business or occupation licensed. Each such bond shall be
issued by a company authorized to do business in the state and shall be
executed by an agent of the company residing in the county and further
conditioned that in the event of cancellation or expiration that the company or
agent will give ten days’ notice of such fact to the City Clerk. Each such bond
shall be approved as to form by the City Attorney and approved as to surety by
the City Treasurer and the approval thereof shall be endorsed on the bond by
the City Attorney and by the Mayor over their signatures.
   (b)   Each bond shall be dated to run from the first day of any license
issued by the city to the principal and may cover the period of not to exceed
two years. No bond shall be renewed by an extension certificate but a new bond
shall be filed by the principal for each successive period following the
renewal thereof. The city reserves the right to furnish the form of all surety
bonds as may be required by this article.
§ 4-326 INSURANCE.
   In addition to obtaining a corporate surety bond as required by §
4-325 of this article, a plumber or plumbing contractor must procure and
maintain a liability insurance policy in the amount of $100,000 for the death
or injury of any one person and $300,000 for the death or injury of any number
of persons in any one accident and $50,000 for property damage in any one
accident. Such policies of insurance shall be issued by some insurance company
authorized to do business in the state. A plumber or plumbing contractor may
qualify as to the insurance requirements by filing a certificate with the City
Clerk executed by the resident agent of such company stating that the required
policy of insurance has been issued by such company for the purpose required by
this article and that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon
giving 30 days’ notice in writing to the city; and that the certificate shall
be filed for an annual period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of
such year.
§ 4-327 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any plumber or plumbing contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Plumbing Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such plumber or plumbing
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such plumber or plumbing contractor involving any
one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain a plumbing permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of a permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any plumbing work without a permit where one is
required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the plumbing laws, or
failure to comply with any lawful order of the City Plumbing Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the governing
body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The governing body may, upon such
hearing, terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the plumber or
plumbing contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period of
six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the suspension or
revocation of any plumber’s or plumbing contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of plumber
or plumbing contractor during the time any license of such plumber or plumbing
contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-328 EXCAVATIONS.
   When it appears that the laying or repairing of any water or sewer pipes or
the making of any connection therewith shall require excavation in any street,
alley or public way of the city or the cutting or removal of any pavement, curb
or gutter or any sidewalk, during the course of such work, the application for
a permit shall so state and describe the location and extent of the excavation,
cutting or removal. Before the City Clerk shall issue any permit for such work,
the applicant shall pay any fee required by this code. All excavations shall be
barricaded and guarded as provided by the appropriate sections of this code.
Before any such excavation shall be backfilled, new plumbing work therein shall
be inspected and the bottom of the excavation holding any sewer, drain or water
pipe shall be so filled, leveled and tamped as to properly support the pipe and
permit proper drainage when carrying sewage, and the excavation shall be
backfilled and all paving, curbing, guttering or sidewalks shall be restored as
near as possible to their last condition, subject always to the approval of the
Plumbing Inspector or the Superintendent of Streets.
§ 4-329 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
installing plumbing piping or equipment within and upon his or her own
residence and intended for his or her personal use and permanent occupancy;
provided, the owner shall satisfy the Plumbing Inspector as to his or her
ability to install such piping or equipment, secure a permit, pay required
fees, do work in accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and
receive approval. Personal installation by an owner under this section shall be
by himself, herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence,
without compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in
any way on such work except a plumber or plumbing contractor licensed by the
city.
§ 4-330 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   No plumbing materials, appliances or equipment shall be installed in the
city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this article and with
the approved standards of construction for safety to life and property.
Conformity of materials for plumbing materials, appliances and equipment to the
standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. shall be prima facie evidence
that the materials, devices, appliances and equipment comply with the
requirements of this article.
§ 4-331 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
performing any plumbing construction for damages to persons or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability, by reason of the inspection or re-inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval of any work or equipment authorized herein or by
reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-332 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the Uniform Plumbing Code or of this article shall be held
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the remaining
provisions of the Uniform Plumbing Code or of this article; the section is to
be completely severable from the remaining provisions, which shall continue in
full force and effect.
ARTICLE 4: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
4-401   Definitions
   
4-402   Adoption of Electrical Code by reference
   
4-403   Additional provisions
   
4-404   Building Official; authority
   
4-405   Electrical Inspector; appointment
   
4-406   Same; duties
   
4-407   Same; powers
   
4-408   Same; right of entry
   
4-409   Clarification; modification
   
4-410   Electrical permit required; application; approval
   
4-411   Same; application information required
   
4-412   Same; plans and specifications
   
4-413   Same; fees
   
4-414   Same; posting
   
4-415   Request for inspection
   
4-416   Inspection; concealment of prior work
   
4-417   Inspection fee
   
4-418   Certificate of approval
   
4-419   Connection to installations
   
4-420   Reinspection
   
4-421   Condemnation; appeal
   
4-422   Interference by unauthorized person
   
4-423   Electrician or electrical contractors defined
   
4-424   Electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license required; electrical
permits; unlawful acts
   
4-425   Same; application; granting
   
4-426   Same; license fees; conditions; renewal; unlawful acts
   
4-427   Reserved
   
4-428   Insurance
   
4-429   License suspension; revocation; appeal; unlawful acts
   
4-430   Work by property owners
   
4-431   Approved materials
   
4-432   Liability
   
4-433   Severability
§ 4-401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Chief Building Official, the Electrical Inspector,
or his or her designee.
   AUTHORIZED PERSON. Any individual, firm or corporation who or which is
licensed under the provisions of this article to do the work as permitted under
the specified provisions of this article.
   CITY. The territory within the corporate limits of this city.
   CONDUCTOR. A wire or cable or other form of metal suitable for carrying the
electric current or potential.
   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION.
      (1)   Includes all work and materials used in installing, maintaining or
extending a system of electrical wiring and all appurtenances, apparatus or
equipment used in connection therewith, inside or attached to any building,
structure, lot or premises, except industrial plants where full-time
maintenance is provided and other agencies providing inspections of
installations and facilities.
      (2)   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION shall not be held to mean or include any of
the following:
         (A)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures, and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
         (B)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
         (C)   Any work in industrial establishments where inspections come
under the scope of other inspection agencies.
   EQUIPMENT. Conductors, materials, fittings, devices, appliances, fixtures,
apparatus, motors and the like, used as a part of or in connection with an
electrical installation.
   INSPECTOR. The Chief Building Official or any individual who has been
appointed by the city as Electrical Inspector.
   PERSON. A natural person, his or her heirs, executors, administrators or
assigns, and also includes a firm, partnership or corporation, its or their
successors, assigns or the agent of any of the aforesaid.
   SPECIAL PERMISSION. The written consent of the Chief Building Official or
the Electrical Inspector.
   SPECIAL RULING. A written ruling filed in the office of the Chief Building
Official or the Electrical Inspector.
§ 4-402 ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (a)   The standard code known as the National Electrical Code of 2011, a
publication of the National Fire Protection Association, the same being a
standard code for the installation of electrical wiring and apparatus and
available in book and pamphlet form is hereby incorporated by reference herein
and made a part of this article as authorized and in the manner prescribed by
K.S.A. 12-3009 through 12-3012. One copy shall be marked or stamped “Official
Copy as Incorporated by the Code of the City of Phillipsburg”, and shall be
filed with the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public
at all reasonable hours of business.
   (b)   Any person violating any provision of such code shall be punished as
provided in §
1-116 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1351, passed 2-2-2009)
§ 4-403 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following sections of this article are in addition to the provisions of
the standard code incorporated by reference in §
4-402 of this article.
§ 4-404 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The Public Works Supervisor or his or her authorized designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article and
appointment of an Electrical Inspector in accordance with §
4-204, which shall apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-405 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Public Works Supervisor may assume the responsibilities of or appoint
some qualified officer or employee of the city to be and perform the duties of
Electrical Inspector as may be required, subject to the consent and approval of
the governing body.
§ 4-406 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the following duties:
   (a)   To enforce all regulations relating to electrical construction,
alteration, repair or removal;
   (b)   May permit, with the approval of the governing body, on the basis of
duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, the use of new materials or
modes of electrical construction, not provided for in this article, and may,
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of this article adopt an accepted
standard of material or workmanlike practices of federal or state bureaus,
national, technical organizations or fire underwriters;
   (c)   To examine all buildings requiring electrical construction in the
process of erection, construction, alteration or relocation in the city for the
purpose of determining whether the work is in compliance with the permit given
and in compliance with the regulations of the city pertaining to such work,
including zoning regulations; and
   (d)   To keep comprehensive records of applications, of permits or
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices
or orders issued. All such records shall be open to public inspection during
stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building
Official or Electrical Inspector without his or her written consent.
§ 4-407 SAME; POWERS.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter any building or structure or premises at any reasonable hour,
whether complete or in the process of erection, to perform the duties contained
in this article;
   (b)   To adopt and enforce all such prudent emergency measures as he or she
may deem necessary and expedient for the public safety under the laws of the
city; and
   (c)   May cause any work done in violation of this article to be
discontinued until he or she shall have satisfactory evidence that the work
will be done in accordance with the electrical regulations of the city, subject
to the right of any installer or owner to appeal to the governing body.
§ 4-408 SAME; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Electrical Inspector, or his or her agent, upon proper identification,
shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any
reasonable hour to perform his or her duties as set out in this article.
§ 4-409 CLARIFICATION; MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall be the final determiner of the scope and
meaning of all provisions of the Electrical Code which may be unclear,
ambiguous or requiring interpretation.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Electrical Code upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. In approving
modifications, the Electrical Inspector shall see that the spirit of the code
is observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The
particulars of a modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the
Inspector thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Electrical Inspector
and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 4-410 ELECTRICAL PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in any electrical construction as defined in §
4-401 of this article within the city without an electrical permit being first
obtained therefor from the City Clerk, after approval by the Chief Building
Official or his or her duly authorized assistant. The application for such
permit shall be made and the permit obtained before any electrical construction
work is commenced.
   (b)   No electrical permit shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
      (2)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
      (3)   Any work in industrial establishments where the issuance of
electrical permits comes under the scope of other agencies.
§ 4-411 SAME; APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   An electrical permit shall be issued upon an application in
writing to the office of City Clerk on a form or forms provided for the
purpose.
      (2)   This application shall, among other things, disclose the following:
         (A)   The name of the owner of the lot or tract of ground;
         (B)   The location of the building or structure;
         (C)   The electrical construction work proposed;
         (D)   The class of occupancy;
         (E)   The class of electrical construction;
         (F)   The kind of materials to be used;
         (G)   The estimated cost of the work;
         (H)   The date work will commence;
         (I)   Expected date of completion;
         (J)   Name and address of electrical contractor or contractors doing
the work; and
         (K)   Such other information as may be pertinent to the issuance of
the required permit.
   (b)   An application for an electrical permit shall be signed by the owner
or his or her duly authorized agent, or an electrician or electrical contractor
licensed by the city. If the application is made by the owner or his or her
agent, it shall contain the name or names of the licensed electrician or
electrical contractor or contractors doing the work described, or an electrical
permit may be issued to the owner upon his or her application disclosing
satisfactory evidence that the proposed work will be performed by the owner,
himself or herself and not by a licensed electrical contractor, and likewise
subject to the final approval of the Electrical Inspector for work performed.
   (c)   Upon approval of the completed application and a determination that a
permit should be issued, the Chief Building Official or his or her assistant
shall issue a permit to the owner, electrician or electrical contractor
authorizing the electrical construction work covered by the application.
   (d)   Any permit issued under this section shall be valid and subsisting for
a period of not more than six months from the date of issuance unless the
permittee shall have commenced, within the period so limited, the electrical
construction work authorized by such permit. ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION WORK
COMMENCED, for the purpose of this section, shall mean the beginning of
electrical construction work other than the preparation of plans or the letting
of an electrical contract.
§ 4-412 SAME; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever an application for a electrical permit is made, the Chief Building
Official or the Electrical Inspector may, if he or she finds it necessary to
determine whether electrical construction work described in the application
will comply with the laws pertaining to such work, require that the applicant
file a written description or drawing of the proposed electrical construction
as may be prepared for the purpose. If such drawing or description is
insufficient for the purposes of determining whether a permit should be issued,
the Building Official may require the applicant to file complete electrical and
engineering plans and specifications for such electrical construction, or any
part thereof, as may be necessary for the Inspector to determine compliance
with this article. The filing of such plans and specifications and the approval
thereof in connection with an application for a permit shall not in any way
affect the authority of the city to deny or issue a permit, or to inspect any
electrical construction work for conformity with this article.
§ 4-413 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for an electrical permit shall be as set by policy of the governing
body. The fee herein shall be paid to the City Clerk upon obtaining an
electrical permit and the same shall be credited to the General Operating Fund
of the city.
§ 4-414 SAME; POSTING.
   A copy of the electrical permit shall be kept on the premises for public
inspection during the performance of the work and until the completion of the
same. The Electrical Inspector may require a certified copy of the approved
plans to be kept on the premises at all times from the commencement of the work
to the completion thereof.
§ 4-415 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of any electrical work covered by this article, it shall
be the duty of the person doing such work to notify the Electrical Inspector
and request that it be inspected; after which such work shall be inspected
promptly as hereinafter provided.
§ 4-416 INSPECTION; CONCEALMENT OF PRIOR WORK.
   (a)   When any electric equipment is to be hidden from view by the permanent
placement of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing
the equipment shall notify the Building Inspector and such equipment shall not
be concealed until it has been inspected, approved or authorized by the
Electrical Inspector or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays, shall have elapsed from the time of such notification. On large
installations, where the concealment of equipment proceeds continuously, the
person, firm or corporation installing the electrical equipment shall give the
Electrical Inspector due notice and inspections shall be made periodically
during the progress of the work.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector shall have the authority to require building
contractors to open such work which, in any manner, conceals electrical wiring
that has been closed without his or her knowledge or permission, and in no case
shall the Inspector issue a certificate of approval until satisfied that the
work is in accordance with the provisions of this article. The Inspector shall
also have the right to refuse to issue a certificate of approval on any wiring,
that is concealed in such manner that it cannot be fully determined that it has
been done in accordance with this article.
§ 4-417 INSPECTION FEE.
   An initial inspection fee and an inspection fee for subsequent inspections
required shall be as set by policy of the governing body and shall be paid
before any electrical installation will be approved or a certificate of
approval issued.
§ 4-418 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (a)   When the Electrical Inspector finds an electrical construction or
installation to be in conformity with the provisions of this article, he or she
shall issue to the person, firm or corporation performing the electrical
construction work or making the installation, a certificate of approval, with
duplicate copy for delivery to the owner, authorizing the use of the
installation and connection to the supply of electricity.
   (b)   When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection
and use of a temporary installation, the certificate shall expire at a time to
be stated therein and shall be revocable for cause by the Electrical Inspector.
   (c)   In no case shall certificates of approval be issued on electrical
construction, installations or parts of installations where the work installed
does not conform to the requirements of this article.
   (d)   If, upon inspection, the installation is not found to be fully in
conformity with the provisions of this article, the Electrical Inspector shall
immediately notify the person, firm or corporation performing the electrical
construction work or making the installation of the existing defects.
   (e)   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the electric
conductor or equipment has been installed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this article and unless the electrical construction or
installation is made in compliance with nationally approved methods of
construction for safety to life and property as herein set forth.
   (f)   The Electrical Inspector shall be deemed the judge of whether the
installation of electric conductors and equipment has been made in accordance
with the requirements of this article.
   (g)   No certificate of approval shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   The replacement of lamps, fuses, bulbs or the connection of
portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed receptacles and
replacement of receptacles and switches, lighting fixtures and apparatus where
no changes or alterations are made to the wiring;
      (2)   Any work involved in the manufacturing, repair or testing of any
electrical equipment or apparatus, but not including any permanent wiring; or
      (3)   Any work in industrial establishments where inspections come under
the scope of other inspection agencies.
§ 4-419 CONNECTION TO INSTALLATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make
connection to a supply of electricity to any building or electrical equipment
for which an inspection is required, or which has been disconnected by the
order of the Electrical Inspector, until a certificate of approval has been
issued by the Electrical Inspector authorizing the connection and use of such
electric supply.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector may, at his or her discretion, authorize a
temporary connection.
§ 4-420 REINSPECTION.
   The Electrical Inspector shall periodically re-inspect existing
installations of electrical conductors and equipment. When the installation of
any conductors or equipment is found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition,
the person, firm or corporation owning, using or operating the installation
shall be notified in writing and shall make the necessary repairs or changes
required to place the conductors or equipment in safe condition and have the
work completed within the period specified by the Electrical Inspector.
§ 4-421 CONDEMNATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   (1)   If, in the judgment of the Electrical Inspector, after an
inspection, any electrical conductors, appliances or equipment in any building
are unsafe or dangerous to persons or property, the Inspector shall have the
power to cause the wires or appliances to be disconnected from the source of
electrical energy supplying these conductors or equipment, and may, at his or
her discretion, seal the control switches for the same in an open or
disconnected position, whereupon he or she shall give notice to the owner, or
his or her agent, or by posting such notice at the site and shall also notify
the utilities serving the premises.
      (2)   Thereafter, it shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit
electric current to be supplied to the electrical conductors, appliances or
equipment so sealed until they shall have been made safe and the Inspector
shall have issued a certificate of approval to that effect.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to cause all dead
wires, unused poles or electric apparatus on the outside of the buildings or in
streets or alleys to be removed at the expense of the owners thereof by giving
the owners written notice.
   (c)   When the Electrical Inspector condemns all or part of any electrical
installation, the owner may, within ten days after receiving written notice
thereof, file a petition in writing for review of the action of the Building
Inspector by the governing body, upon the receipt of which the governing body
shall at once proceed to determine the facts, and within ten days from
receiving the petition make a decision in accordance with their findings.
§ 4-422 INTERFERENCE BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to, in any manner, change
or alter electrical conductors or equipment in or on any building. If, in the
course of the erection of a building or structure, electrical conductors or
equipment are in such position as to interfere with the erection or completion
of the structure, notice shall be immediately given the authorized person or
firm installing the electrical conductors or equipment, and the needed change
shall be made by such authorized person or firm.
§ 4-423 ELECTRICIAN OR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS DEFINED.
   (a)   An ELECTRICIAN or ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR for purposes of this article
shall be any person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association or any
combination thereof, whether a resident or not of the city:
      (1)   Who or which undertakes with or for another, for a fixed sum,
price, fee or any other compensation to install, construct, alter, repair, add
to or move any electrical installation or performs any electrical construction
work in the city, for which an electrical construction permit may now or
hereafter be required by the laws of the city;
      (2)   Who or which advertises or represents himself, herself or itself to
the public to have the capacity or ability to undertake, or submit a bid or
offer to install, construct, alter, repair, add to, remove, restore or replace
any electrical installation or perform any electrical construction work; or
      (3)   Who or which installs, constructs, alters, adds to or removes any
electrical installation or performs any electrical construction work either on
his or her own or other property for purposes of sale or speculation.
   (b)   An ELECTRICIAN or ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR as defined shall not mean or
include:
      (1)   Any owner or his or her authorized agents or employees making
ordinary repairs to his, her or its own building or structure not involving
electrical construction and for which a permit is not required or on which an
electrician or electrical contractor, as defined, is not required, employed or
engaged to perform; or
      (2)   Any property owner personally performing any improvements,
alterations or electrical construction within or upon his or her own residence
and intended for his or her own personal use and permanent occupancy; provided,
the owner shall satisfy the Electrical Inspector as to his or her ability to
perform such work, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in accordance
with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive approval. Personal
electrical construction by an owner under this section shall be by himself,
herself, for himself or herself on his or her own residence, without
compensation and no person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on
such work except an electrician or electrical contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-424 ELECTRICIAN’S OR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; ELECTRICAL
PERMITS; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   Each electrician or electrical contractor shall, before entering upon
any electrical construction work subject to regulation by city laws, apply to
the City Clerk for an electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license and
receive the same as hereinafter provided and have in his or her possession a
valid license authorizing him, her or it to engage in the trade or occupation
of electrician or electrical contractor in the city.
   (b)   No permit for any electrical construction work shall be issued for any
such work to be performed by an electrician or electrical contractor, as
defined, who has not first obtained a license upon making a proper application
and payment of the license fee as required.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association or
corporation to enter into a contract or agreement with another so as to bring
himself, herself or itself under the definition of an electrician or electrical
contractor herein, or to perform any work as an electrician or electrical
contractor or any work under a contract for any work involving electrical
construction, without first having obtained an electrician’s or electrical
contractor’s license issued by the city.
§ 4-425 SAME; APPLICATION; GRANTING.
   Application for an electrician’s or electrical contractor’s license shall be
made upon a form to be supplied by the city which shall disclose the name of
the applicant, his or her place of business in the city (and home office if a
non-resident), the kind of contracting work engaged in the length of time
engaged in such work, and places where work has been performed within the past
two years. The application shall be signed by the electrician or electrical
contractor or his or her authorized agent. The applications shall be, by the
Chief Building Official, referred to the governing body at its next meeting for
action thereon. Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of
the fees hereinafter provided after approval of the governing body.
§ 4-426 SAME; LICENSE FEES; CONDITIONS; RENEWAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The following license fees shall be as set by policy of the
governing body and shall be paid for the calendar year or major fraction
thereof:
         (A)   General electrician or electrical contractor; and
         (B)   Limited electrician or electrical contractor.
      (2)   Any license issued on or after July 1 of each year shall be issued
upon payment of one-half the annual license fee.
   (b)   Each such license shall set forth the kind of electrical construction
work in which the licensee may engage. The licensee shall display his or her
license at any place where he or she may be engaged in contract work or produce
the same on demand of any city officer. All licenses shall be renewable
annually as in the case of an original license on or before January 1 of the
year for which issued.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to contract
for any kind of work covered by this article without having a valid license
issued by the city to perform such contracts.
§ 4-427 RESERVED.
§ 4-428 INSURANCE.
   An electrician or electrical contractor must procure and maintain a
liability insurance policy in the amount of $100,000 for the death or injury of
any one person and $300,000 for the death or injury of any number of persons in
any one accident and $50,000 for property damage in any one accident. Such
policies of insurance shall be issued by some insurance company authorized to
do business in the state. An electrician or electrical contractor may qualify
as to the insurance requirements by filing a certificate with the City Clerk
executed by the resident agent of such company stating that the required policy
of insurance has been issued by such company for the purpose required by this
article and that such insurer will not cancel the policy except upon giving 30
days’ notice in writing to the city; and that the certificate shall be filed
for an annual period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of such year.
§ 4-429 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   (1)   The license of any electrician or electrical contractor may be
suspended temporarily, for a period of not to exceed 30 days at any one time,
by the Chief Building Official upon his or her own motion or upon a complaint
of the City Electrical Inspector.
      (2)   Notice shall be given in writing to such electrician or electrical
contractor giving reasonable notice of a time of hearing of the complaint or
the matter alleged against such electrician or electrical contractor involving
any one or more of the following:
         (A)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by applicant in obtaining a
license;
         (B)   Use of license to obtain an electrical permit for another;
         (C)   Failure or neglect to observe conditions of permit authorizing
encumbering of streets or sidewalks for safety of public;
         (D)   Performance of any electrical construction work without a permit
where one is required by law; or
         (E)   Willful disregard of any violation of the electrical
construction laws, or failure to comply with any lawful order of the City
Electrical Inspector.
   (b)   Any licensee may, within 15 days, appeal in writing to the governing
body from any order of the Chief Building Official suspending his or her
license for its final decision thereon. The governing body may upon such
hearing terminate such suspension within not more than 30 days thereafter, or
may revoke such license. If any license shall be revoked, the electrician or
electrical contractor shall not be eligible for a new license during a period
of six months thereafter. No fee shall be refunded in event of the suspension
or revocation of any electricians or electrical contractor’s license.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the occupation or trade of
electrician or electrical contractor during the time any license of such
electrician or electrical contractor has been suspended or revoked.
§ 4-430 WORK BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit any property owner from personally
performing any electrical construction or installing electrical wiring or
equipment within and upon his or her own residence and intended for his or her
personal use and permanent occupancy; provided, the owner shall satisfy the
Electrical Inspector as to his or her ability to perform such work or install
such electrical wiring, secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in
accordance with this article, and apply for an inspection and receive a
certificate of approval. Personal electrical construction or installation
performed by an owner under this section shall be by himself, herself, for
himself or herself on his or her own residence, without compensation and no
person shall be employed to assist him or her in any way on such work except an
electrician or electrical contractor licensed by the city.
§ 4-431 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   No electric materials for wiring of appliances or equipment shall be
installed in the city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this
article and with the approved standards of construction for safety to life and
property. Conformity of materials for wiring appliances and equipment to the
standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. shall be prima facie evidence
that the materials, devices, appliances and equipment comply with the
requirements of this article.
§ 4-432 LIABILITY.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability, by reason of the inspection or re-inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval of any work or equipment authorized herein or by
reason of any permit or license granted herein.
§ 4-433 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of the National Electrical Code or of this article shall be
held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then such section shall be considered separate and apart from the
remaining provisions of the National Electrical Code or of this article; the
section is to be completely severable from the remaining provisions, which
shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 5: DANGEROUS AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
Section
   
4-501   Purpose
   
4-502   Definitions
   
4-503   Enforcing officer; duties
   
4-504   Procedure; petition
   
4-505   Same; notice
   
4-506   Same; publication
   
4-507   Same; hearing, order
   
4-508   Duty of owner
   
4-509   Same; failure to comply
   
4-510   Same; make site safe
   
4-511   Assessment of costs
   
4-512   Immediate hazard
   
4-513   Appeals from order
   
4-514   Scope of article
§ 4-501 PURPOSE.
   The governing body has found that there exist within the corporate limits of
the city structures which are unfit for human use or habitation because of
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire or accidents, structural
defects or other conditions which render such structures unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise inimical to the general welfare of the city, or conditions which
provide a general blight upon the neighborhood or surrounding properties. It is
hereby deemed necessary by the governing body to require or cause the repair,
closing or demolition or removal of such structures as provided in this
article.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1751
§ 4-502 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCING OFFICER. The Building Inspector or his or her authorized
representative.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, wall, superstructure or other structure which
requires location on the ground or is attached to something having a location
on the ground.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1750
§ 4-503 ENFORCING OFFICER; DUTIES.
   The enforcing officer is hereby authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary to carry out the purposes of this article, including the following:
   (a)   Inspect any structure which appears to be unsafe, dangerous or unfit
for human habitation;
   (b)   Have authority to enter upon premises at reasonable hours for the
purpose of making such inspections. Entry shall be made so as to cause the
least possible inconvenience to any person in possession of the structure. If
entry is denied, the enforcing officer may seek an order for this purpose from
a court of competent jurisdiction;
   (c)   Report all structures which he or she believes to be dangerous, unsafe
or unfit for human habitation to the governing body; and
   (d)   Receive petitions as provided in this article.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 4-504 PROCEDURE; PETITION.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the enforcing officer by at least five
residents charging that any structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human
habitation, or whenever it appears to the enforcing officer on his or her own
motion that any structure is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human habitation,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, report such findings to the governing body.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 4-505 SAME; NOTICE.
   The governing body upon receiving a report as provided in §
4-504 of this article shall by resolution fix a time and place at which the
owner, the owner’s agent, any lienholder of records and any occupant of the
structure may appear and show cause why the structure should not be condemned
and ordered repaired or demolished.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1752
§ 4-506 SAME; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   The resolution shall be published once each week for two consecutive
weeks on the same day of each week. At least 30 days shall elapse between the
last publication and the date set for the hearing.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be mailed by certified mail within
three days after its first publication to each owner, agent, lienholder and
occupant at the last known place of residence and shall be marked “deliver to
addressee only”.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1752
§ 4-507 SAME; HEARING, ORDER.
   (a)   If, after notice and hearing, the governing body determines that the
structure under consideration is dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human use or
habitation, it shall state in writing its findings of fact in support of such
determination and shall cause the resolution to be published once in the
official city newspaper and a copy mailed to the owners, agents, lienholders of
record and occupants in the same manner provided for the notice of hearing. The
resolution shall fix a reasonable time within which the repair or removal of
such structure shall be commenced and a statement that if the owner of such
structure fails to commence the repair or removal of such structure within the
time stated or fails to diligently prosecute the same until the work is
completed, the governing body will cause the structure to be razed and removed.
   (b)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the structure can be made
at a cost which shall not exceed 50% of the fair market value of the structure,
the owner of the property shall, within the time specified in the order,
repair, alter or improve the structure to render it safe and fit for human use
or habitation, or shall vacate and close the structure until such time as he or
she has complied with the order.
   (c)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the structure cannot be
made at a cost of 50% or less of its fair market value, the owner shall, within
the time specified in the order, remove or demolish the structure.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 4-508 DUTY OF OWNER.
   Whenever any structure within the city shall be found to be dangerous,
unsafe or unfit for human use or habitation, it shall be the duty and
obligation of the owner of the property to render the same secure and safe or
to remove the same.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 4-509 SAME; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (a)   If, within the time specified in the order, the owner fails to comply
with the order to repair, alter, improve or vacate the structure, the enforcing
officer may cause the structure to be repaired, altered, improved or to be
vacated and closed.
   (b)   If, within the time specified in the order, the owner fails to comply
with the order to remove or demolish the structure, the enforcing officer may
cause the structure to be removed and demolished.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 4-510 SAME; MAKE SITE SAFE.
   Upon removal of any structure, the owner shall fill any basement or other
excavation located upon the premises and take any other action necessary to
leave the premises in a safe condition. If the owner fails to take such action,
the enforcing officer may proceed to make the site safe.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 4-511 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (a)   The cost to the city of any repairs, alterations, improvements,
vacating, removal or demolition by the enforcing officer, including making the
site safe, shall be reported to the City Clerk.
   (b)   The city shall give notice to the owner of the structure by restricted
mail of the cost of removing the structure and making the premises safe and
secure. The notice shall also state that payment of the cost is due and payable
within 30 days following receipt of the notice.
   (c)   If the costs remain unpaid after 30 days following receipt of notice,
the City Clerk may sell any salvage from the structure and apply the proceeds
or any necessary portion thereof to pay the cost of removing the structure and
making the site safe. Any proceeds in excess of that required to recover the
costs shall be paid to the owner of the premises upon which the structure was
located.
   (d)   If the proceeds of the sale of salvage or from the proceeds of any
insurance policy in which the city has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-
3901, et seq., and amendments thereto, are insufficient to recover the above
stated costs, or if there is no salvage, the balance shall be collected in the
manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or shall be
assessed as special assessments against the lot or parcel of land on which the
structure was located and the City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city
taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs to the County Clerk and
who shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against such lot or
parcel of land and it shall be collected by the county treasurer and paid to
the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may pursue
collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner provided by
K.S.A. 12-1,115 and amendments thereto, but only until the full cost and
applicable interest has been paid in full.
   (e)   If there is no salvage material, or if the moneys received from the
sale of salvage or from the proceeds of any insurance policy in which the city
has created a lien pursuant to K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., and amendments thereto,
are insufficient to pay the costs of the work and the costs of providing
notice, such costs or any portion thereof in excess of that received from the
sale of salvage or any insurance proceeds may be financed, until the costs are
paid, out of the General Fund or by the issuance of no-fund warrants.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1755
§ 4-512 IMMEDIATE HAZARD.
   When, in the opinion of the governing body, any structure is in such
condition as to constitute an immediate hazard requiring immediate action to
protect the public, the governing body may direct the enforcing officer to
erect barricades or cause the property to be vacated, taken down, repaired,
shored or otherwise made safe without delay. Such action may be taken without
prior notice to or hearing of the owners, agents, lienholders and occupants.
The cost of any action under this section shall be assessed against the
property as provided in §
4-511 of this article.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1756
§ 4-513 APPEALS FROM ORDER.
   Any person affected by an order issued by the governing body under this
article may, within 30 days following service of the order, petition the
District Court of the county in which the structure is located for an
injunction restraining the enforcing officer from carrying out the provisions
of the order pending final disposition of the case.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 4-514 SCOPE OF ARTICLE.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
charter or its ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or punish violations
thereof; and the powers conferred by this article shall be in addition to and
supplemental to the powers conferred by the constitution, any other law or
ordinance. Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair or limit in any
way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause their
removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise or to exercise those
powers granted specifically by K.S.A. 12-1750 through 12-1756.
(Ord. 1190, passed 2-19-1990)
ARTICLE 6: MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
4-601   Building Official; authority
   
4-602   Permit required
   
4-603   Same: application for permit
   
4-604   Same; bond, insurance required
   
4-605   Same; fee
   
4-606   Contractor; license required; fee
   
4-607   Route; duties of Building Official
   
4-608   Notice to owners
   
4-609   Duty of owners
   
4-610   Interfering with poles; wires
   
4-611   Display of lanterns
§ 4-601 BUILDING OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY.
   The Public Works Supervisor or his or her authorized designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article and
appointment of an inspector in accordance with §§
4-204 through
4-209 of this code of ordinances, which apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-602 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move, haul or transport any house,
building, derrick or other structure of the height when loaded for movement of
16 feet or more from the surface of the highway, road, street or alley, or a
width of eight feet or more or which cannot be moved at a speed of four mph or
faster, upon, across or over any street, alley or sidewalk in this city without
first obtaining a permit therefor.
(K.S.A. 17-1914)
§ 4-603 SAME: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   All applications for permits required under the provisions of this article
shall be made in writing to the City Clerk specifying the day and hour said
moving is to commence and the route through the city’s streets over which the
house, building, derrick or other structure shall be moved and stating whether
it will be necessary to cut and move, raise or in any way interfere with any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment of any public or municipally-owned
utility, and if so, the application shall also state the name of the public or
municipally-owned utility, and the time and location that the applicant’s
moving operations shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or otherwise
interfering with such aerial facilities.
(K.S.A. 17-1915)
§ 4-604 SAME; BOND, INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of any person at the time of making application
for a permit as provided in this article to give a good and sufficient surety
bond to the city, to be approved by the governing body, indemnifying the city
against any loss or damage resulting from the failure of any such person to
comply with the provisions of this article or for any damage or injury caused
in moving any such house or structure. The bond herein shall be in the sum of
$5,000, or cash may be deposited in lieu of such surety bond.
   (b)   A public liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state, in the amount of $100,000 per person,
$300,000 per accident as to personal injury, and $50,000 property damage may be
permitted in lieu of a bond.
§ 4-605 SAME; FEE.
   Before any permit to move any house or structure is given under the
provisions of this article, the applicant shall pay a fee of not less than $5
to the City Clerk, plus the additional cost for the time for any city crews
involved in such moving.
§ 4-606 CONTRACTOR; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   The provisions of §§
4-219 through
4-225 of this code of ordinances shall apply in a like manner to this article.
§ 4-607 ROUTE; DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The City Clerk shall, upon filing of the above application, refer the same
to the Chief Building Official or his or her authorized designee to check the
proposed route and determine if it is practical to move such house or other
structure over the route proposed. If it shall appear that such route is not
practical, and another route may be used equally well with less danger to
street and travel, then he or she may designate such other route as the one to
be used and shall notify the applicant of the same. The Building Official may
also require the planking of any street, bridge or culvert or any part thereof
to prevent damage thereto. It shall also be the duty of the Chief Building
Official or his or her authorized designee to inspect the progress of moving
any house or other structure to see that the same is being moved in accordance
with the provisions of this article.
§ 4-608 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   (a)   Upon issuance of a moving permit, the applicant shall give not less
than 15 days’ written notice to any person owning or operating any wires,
cables or other aerial equipment along the proposed route of the intent to move
the structure, giving the time and location that the applicants moving
operation shall necessitate the cutting, moving, raising or interfering of any
wires, cables or other aerial equipment.
   (b)   The notice provision of division (a) above shall not apply where the
person owning or operating any wires, cables or other aerial equipment has
waived their right to advance notice.
   (c)   Should the moving operation be delayed, the applicant shall give the
owner or his or her agent not less than 24 hours’ advance notice of the actual
operation.
(K.S.A. 17-1916)
§ 4-609 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the person or the city owning or operating
such poles or wires, after service of notice as provided herein, to furnish
competent lineman or workers to remove such poles, or raise or cut such wires,
cables or other aerial equipment as will be necessary to facilitate the moving
of such house or structure. The necessary expense which is incurred thereby
shall be paid by the holder of the moving permit.
   (b)   The owner of any wires, cables or other aerial equipment, after
service of notice as provided in § 4-608 of this article, shall be liable to
the permit holder for damages in an amount not to exceed $100 per day for each
day the owner shall fail or refuse to accommodate the permit holder’s moving
operations.
(K.S.A. 17-1917)
§ 4-610 INTERFERING WITH POLES; WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in moving any house or other
structure to raise, cut or in any way interfere with any wires or poles bearing
wires or any other aerial equipment.
(K.S.A. 17-1918)
§ 4-611 DISPLAY OF LANTERNS.
   It shall be the duty of any person moving any of the structures mentioned in
this article upon or across any street, alley or sidewalk or other public
place, in this city, to display red lanterns thereon in such a manner as to
show the extreme height and width thereof from sunset to sunrise.
ARTICLE 7: NUMBERING BUILDINGS
Section
   
4-701   Numbering of buildings
   
4-702   Placing numbers
   
4-703   Building numbers required
   
4-704   City may number
   
4-705   Exceptions
§ 4-701 NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS.
   The owner or occupants of all lots in the city are hereby required to number
the buildings thereon, according to the following method.
   (a)   For the purpose of numbering buildings, each block shall be divided
into 50 equal divisions running the entire length or breadth, as the case may
be, including all alleys, starting with the property line on one side and
ending with the property line on the opposite side. To each of these divisions
shall be assigned one number as hereinafter provided. On all streets running
east and west, the divisions shall be numbered from First Street, commencing
with the number 100 and each successive block with one additional 100 to the
eastern and western limits of said streets. The portions of the streets running
east and west, lying west of First Street shall be prefixed with the word
“west”.
   (b)   On all streets running north and south (except, U.S. Highway 183
running South of U.S. Highway 36, in which case, said highway addresses shall
coincide with the Phillips County Emergency Preparedness Addressing System) the
divisions shall be numbered from Park Street, commencing with the number 100
and each successive block with one additional 100 to the northern and southern
limits of such streets. The portions of said streets lying south of Park Street
shall be prefixed with the word “south”.
   (c)   The even numbers shall be placed on the south and on the east sides
and the odd numbers on the west and on the north sides of all streets.
   (d)   All buildings shall carry the numbers assigned to the divisions, as
hereinbefore provided on which the doorways or entrances are located.
(Ord. 1267, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 4-702 PLACING NUMBERS.
   The figures of each number put on any building shall not be less than three
inches in height and shall be conspicuously placed on, or above, or by the side
of the front door or entrance of such building in such a way that they will be
reasonably permanent.
§ 4-703 BUILDING NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   All occupants or owners of the buildings of this city are required to number
or cause to be numbered, their buildings. Whenever a new building shall be
erected in the city, the owners or occupants thereof shall number the building
within 30 days after the completion or occupancy of said building.
§ 4-704 CITY MAY NUMBER.
   If any owner or agent of any building in the city shall fail or neglect to
cause the same to be numbered within 30 days, as herein required, the City
Council may cause the same to be done and the expense thereof with the cost of
the numbers shall be charged to the property on which the number is placed and
shall be placed on the tax roll as a special assessment against the property
with the regular assessment of the property in the city for general purposes
and collected as other special assessments.
§ 4-705 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to establish such exceptions to the numbering
system described in this article as may be necessary by the irregular routing
of any streets, avenues and other highways within the city.
ARTICLE 8: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
Section
   
4-801   Wind energy conversion system (WECS); defined
   
4-802   Permit required
§ 4-801 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS); DEFINED.
   A WECS is any device or combination of devices, including, but not limited
to, wind charges, windmills and wind turbines, which converts wind energy into
another usable form of energy; the term shall include all associated support
structures and transmission lines.
(Ord. 1136, passed 8-1-1983)
§ 4-802 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Every person, firm or corporation who desires to install a wind energy
conversion system (WECS) shall first be required to secure a permit from the
Public Works Supervisor or designated officer. The application for such permit
shall contain such information and comply with such regulations listed below:
   (a)   (1)   The minimum distance from all zoning lot lines to any tower,
pole or other support base of the WECS shall be determined by the following
table:
Rotor Diameter (feet) Setback Distance (feet)
Rotor Diameter (feet) Setback Distance (feet)
5                     100
10                    165
15                    220
20                    270
25                    310
30                    340
35                    365
40                    385
 
      (2)   Intermediate rotor size distances shall be interpolated. The WECS
shall not be located in any required yard, front or side yard.
   (b)   The WECS shall not cause interference to microwave communications or
radio and television reception in the area. Noise levels measured at the lot
line shall not exceed 60 dBa in a residential zone.
   (c)   To limit climbing access to a WECS tower, or other support structure,
a six-foot high fence with locking portal shall be placed around the WECS
support or if a tower is utilized the tower climbing apparatus shall be limited
to no lower than 12 feet from the ground or the WECS support may be mounted on
a roof top.
   (d)   All blades of a WECS shall be constructed of non-metallic substances.
If the applicant can prove, in written form, that no electromagnetic
interference will result, a metal content of up to 25% will be acceptable.
   (e)   Certification by a licensed professional structural engineer that: the
technical and dimensional data included in the application is accurate; that
the proposed WECS is structurally adequate to withstand foreseeable natural
phenomena; that the tower and top adapter will withstand minimum horizontal
thrusts of 900 pounds; and that it in all respects conforms to the requirements
set forth in this section.
   (f)   Height of the WECS shall not exceed the maximum height restriction in
the zone where it is located by more than 20 feet. The height of the WECS shall
be measured at the center of the blade diameter.
   (g)   Certification will be required from the Rocky Flats Plant Energy
Systems Group, Golden, Colorado, that it has tested the proposed WECS, together
with resulting data pertaining to the operation, safety, noise and potential
interference with television, radio or communication reception, by the proposed
WECS.
   (h)   The WECS, if interconnected to a utility system, shall meet the
requirements for interconnection and operation as set forth in the electric
utility’s current service regulations applicable to WECS.
   (i)   A plot plan shall be submitted with the application for building
permit showing the proposed location and dimensions of the WECS, guy wires or
other support, fencing and all existing buildings within 200 feet of the
exterior lot lines.
   (j)   A list of all property owners within 200 feet of the boundaries of the
site upon which the WECS is proposed to be installed shall accompany all other
required documents.
   (k)   The owner/operator shall provide covenants, easements or similar
documentation to assure sufficient wind to operate the WECS unless adequate
accessibility to the wind is provided by the site.
   (l)   The owner/operator shall certify that the WECS does not violate any
covenants of record.
   (m)   No WECS shall be located nearer to an existing WECS than a distance
equal to five times the diameter of the larger rotor; provided that, this
distance may be reduced upon a showing that such reduction will not adversely
affect the operation of either WECS.
   (n)   Maintenance on any WECS shall be performed in accordance with the
manufacturer’s recommendations. Rotor blades shall be checked for fatigue
annually by a licensed professional structural engineer, who shall certify the
results of such inspection to the city’s Building Official within ten days
thereafter.
   (o)   The applicant shall provide a certificate of liability insurance.
Annually, the owner/operator shall present evidence to the Zoning Administrator
that the liability insurance is still in effect.
   (p)   Any WECS which thereafter becomes inoperable or fails to conform to
the requirements hereof shall be repaired or removed within 30 days.
(Ord. 1136, passed 8-1-1983)
ARTICLE 9: DISH-TYPE ANTENNA
Section
   
4-901   Restricted
   
4-902   Definitions
   
4-903   Permits and licenses
   
4-904   Location and height
§ 4-901 RESTRICTED.
   Except as provided in this article, no parabolic or dish-type antenna shall
be erected, constructed, altered or maintained on any lot within the city.
(Ord. 1155, passed 5-6-1985)
§ 4-902 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   HEIGHT. The overall vertical length of the antenna system above the ground,
or if located on a structure, then above that portion of the structure upon
which the antenna base rests.
   PARABOLIC OR DISH-TYPE ANTENNA. Any circular or similar dish shape receiving
antenna generally used for highly specialized industrial communications or for
receiving television signals from a satellite.
(Ord. 1155, passed 5-6-1985)
§ 4-903 PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   (a)   No antenna system shall hereafter be erected or any existing antenna
system increased in height, rebuilt, structurally altered or relocated without
a building permit issued from the governing body of the city. No building
permit is required for an antenna system that is roof mounted and less than
three feet in diameter. The applicant shall submit a written request to the
city specifying all work to be done and materials to be used. A permit may be
issued if the work or improvement to be done complies with the provisions of
the Building Code, other pertinent ordinances of the city, and this article,
and shall not constitute a nuisance. The application for permit shall be
considered by the governing body of the city at its next regular meeting
following the date of application. The city shall provide a suitable
application form setting out the information required to obtain the permit and
this permit shall be valid for 30 days from the date of issue.
   (b)   No parabolic or dish-type antenna three feet or more in diameter or
ground-mounted parabolic or dish-type antenna shall be made operational until
an official representative of the city certifies in writing that both
construction plans and final construction and location of the antenna meet the
requirements of this article.
(Ord. 1236, passed 7-3-1995)
§ 4-904 LOCATION AND HEIGHT.
   All parabolic or dish-type antenna located outside of the building shall
meet the following requirements:
   (a)   Maximum number per residential lot: one;
   (b)   Maximum total height: 15 feet.
      (1)   Residential: all parabolic or dish-type antenna shall be mounted at
ground level if three feet or more in diameter. Any roof-mounted antenna shall
be less than three feet in diameter and shall be mounted in such a manner as to
assure structural integrity and meet safety requirements.
      (2)   Commercial: in areas zoned as commercial district, satellite
antennas shall not exceed the highest elevation of the corresponding roof line
of a structure or in the absence thereof, satellite antennas shall not exceed
15 feet in height.
      (3)   Industrial: in areas zoned as industrial districts, satellite
antennas shall not exceed the height requirements set forth for these
districts.
      (4)   Manufactured home park: all parabolic or dish-type antenna shall be
mounted at ground level if three feet or more in diameter. Any roof-mounted
antenna shall be less than three feet in diameter, and shall be mounted in such
a manner as to assure structural integrity and meet safety requirements.
   (c)   Maximum diameter: 13 feet;
   (d)   No ground-mounted antenna may be located in the front or side yard,
but must be located directly in back of the primary structure and conform to
back yard set-back requirements. In areas zoned manufactured home park
districts, a ground-mounted antenna may be located on the back half of the lot
subject to the six-foot backyard setback requirement. In areas zoned as
commercial or industrial districts, satellite antennas, capable of transmitting
and/or receiving electromagnetic waves, shall be permitted on any portion of
the lot; except that, which lies between the front lot line and the front
building line.
   (e)   All parabolic dish-type antennas attached to the ground shall be
permanently affixed on a concrete pad with mounting attachment to assure
stability. If a residential or commercial antenna three feet or more in
diameter is roof mounted, engineering data assuring proper mounting and
structural integrity shall be furnished with the permit application. No antenna
shall be mounted on a tower or similar form of support.
(Ord. 1236, passed 7-3-1995)
ARTICLE 10: WATER WELLS
Section
   
4-1001   Water well registration
§ 4-1001 WATER WELL REGISTRATION.
   Before any person attempts to drill any new water well of any kind, type or
nature within the corporate city limits of the city, the landowner or tenant of
the land where the well is to be placed, shall notify and register with the
City Clerk the location of the water well, the approximate depth of the water
well, the intended use of the water well, the anticipated date the water well
shall be placed into operation and the person, persons or entity in charge of
the actual construction of the water well. Also, the water well contractor or
contractor, as defined by K.S.A. 82a-1203(g), shall have the license as
required by the state’s Groundwater Exploration and Protection Act, being
K.S.A. 82a-1201 et seq. There shall be no fee for this registration.
(Ord. 1192, passed 3-5-1990)
ARTICLE 11: INTERMODAL CONTAINERS
Section
   
4-1101   Definition
   
4-1102   Regulation
§ 4-1101 DEFINITION.
   INTERMODAL CONTAINERS are enclosed rectangular containers primarily used for
shipment of goods and products, which are generally built of heavy gauge steel
reinforced and continuously welded steel frame construction, with fully
vertical corrugated steel sides and end walls, marine grade plywood flooring,
hinged double doors with rubber gaskets. INTERMODAL CONTAINERS are also known
for the purpose of this article and commonly identified by the public as: metal
freight containers, storage containers, steel shipping containers, cargo
containers. A typical container is eight feet wide and eight feet high. Other
heights are eight and one-half feet, nine and one-half feet and 10.5 feet. The
most common lengths are 20 feet, 40 feet, 48 feet and 53 feet, although other
lengths exist. The containers are generally designed to be stacked on top of
each other for shipment purposes.
(Ord. 1345, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 4-1102 REGULATION.
   (a)   Intermodal containers may be used by a licensed contractor during the
build phase of construction upon obtaining a permit from the Public Works
Supervisor or designated officer. The contractor may place the intermodal
container on the job site for a period exceeding ten days after completion of
the job.
   (b)   Intermodal containers may be used for shipping purposes in the city.
The intermodal container must be on a railroad car which must be on a viable
railroad track or said container must be on an operational truck. If on a
truck, the truck may not be parked in the city for more than 24 continuous
hours.
   (c)   Intermodal containers may not be used for any other purpose,
including, but not limited to, the following: intermodal containers may not be
used as storage containers on real property in the city.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions
of this article.
   (e)   Any person convicted of violating this section shall be adjudged
guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor, for which the fine shall be not less
than $25, nor more than $500, and sentenced to not more than 30 days in jail.
(Ord. 1345, passed 6-2-2008)
CHAPTER V: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
      
2.   SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS
      
3.   CARNIVALS, CIRCUSES
      
4.   NEW GOODS AUCTIONS
      
5.   SCRAP METAL DEALER REGISTRATION
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
Section
   
5-101   License required
   
5-102   Application for license
   
5-103   Not assignable or transferable
   
5-104   License period; duration
   
5-105   Exemption of farmers
   
5-106   License fees
   
5-107   Same; when payable; time period
   
5-108   Payment of fees; receipt
   
5-109   Contents of license
   
5-110   Record
   
5-111   Display of license
§ 5-101 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person shall conduct or pursue within the city any trade,
profession or business set out in this chapter without first securing a license
therefor from the City Clerk.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to veterans or former members of the
armed forces of the United States, as provided in K.S.A. 73-207, and who shall
have resided in the city for six months prior to the time of making application
for said license; nor to persons offering for sale or soliciting orders for
milk, dairy products, vegetables, poultry, eggs and other farm and garden
produce.
   (c)   All licenses issued to a transient merchant, as defined in §
5-201 of this code of ordinances, shall not become effective until 24 hours
after the license has been issued by the City Clerk and, therefore, the
transient merchant shall not conduct any trade, profession or business during
the 24-hour waiting period.
(Ord. 1116, passed 12-21-1981)
§ 5-102 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to do business in the city shall
apply to the City Clerk for a license to operate such business, and in the case
of new licenses, shall appear before the governing body before the commencement
of business and issuance of the license. Upon approval by the governing body,
the City Clerk shall issue to the applicant a license that shall be signed by
the City Clerk. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to pay over the amount
so collected on each license issued to the City Treasurer of the city.
§ 5-103 NOT ASSIGNABLE OR TRANSFERABLE.
   No license granted by the city shall be assignable or transferable; nor
shall such license authorize any person to do business or act under it but the
person named therein, nor at more than one place. There shall be no refunds
except as specifically provided.
§ 5-104 LICENSE PERIOD; DURATION.
   Unless otherwise provided, licenses shall commence and endure from January 1
and expire on December 31 of the same year, except that all semi-annual
licenses issued as provided in this chapter shall expire on June 30 or December
31, next following the date of their issuance.
§ 5-105 EXEMPTION OF FARMERS.
   No producer or grower, or his or her agents or employees, selling in the
city, farm or garden products or fruits grown by him or her in the state shall
be required to pay any license fee or occupation tax imposed by any law of this
city, and he or she, his or her agents or employees, are hereby exempt from the
payment of any such fees or taxes, or the securing of a license.
(K.S.A. 12-1617)
§ 5-106 LICENSE FEES.
   Unless otherwise provided, the annual license fee for each occupation,
business or profession shall be set by policy of the governing body.
§ 5-107 SAME; WHEN PAYABLE; TIME PERIOD.
   (a)   All license fees shall be due and payable before the commencement of a
trade, occupation, business or profession in which license fees are required.
   (b)   No license shall be issued until the fee is paid.
   (c)   Licenses shall be renewed on or before the expiration date of the
current licenses.
   (d)   If the license prescribed is for an annual, quarterly, monthly, weekly
or daily period, the license shall not be issued for any part or fraction of
the year, quarter, month, week or day, respectively.
   (e)   The license for a day shall expire at midnight.
§ 5-108 PAYMENT OF FEES; RECEIPT.
   The City Clerk shall, upon payment of any license fee specified, give a
receipt therefor stating the amount paid, the nature of the licenses issued,
for what time, and to whom issued, and if possible, the exact location where
the business is to be carried on, and the kind of business.
§ 5-109 CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise provided, all licenses shall be dated on the date of their
issue, and shall state the name of the licensee, the kind of business he or she
desires to engage in and the location thereof, the amount paid, and time the
license shall expire; and the person having such license shall be authorized to
carry on the business therein named.
§ 5-110 RECORD.
   The City Clerk shall keep a record of the name of each person licensed, his
or her address, the date of the license, the purpose in which it is granted,
the amount paid therefor and the time the same shall expire and within 24 hours
after any license has expired, the City Clerk shall notify the County Sheriff
of such expiration, unless the same shall have been renewed.
§ 5-111 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   All persons doing business in a permanent location are required to have
their license conspicuously displayed in their place of business, and all
persons to whom licenses are issued not having a permanent place of business
are required to carry their licenses with them, and any licensee shall present
the license for inspection when requested to do so by any citizen or officer of
the city.
ARTICLE 2: SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS
Section
   
5-201   Definitions
   
5-202   License required
   
5-203   Same; application required
   
5-204   Issuance; county residents
   
5-205   Same; investigation and issuance; non-county resident
   
5-206   Same; investigation fee
   
5-207   License fee; time limits; exemptions
   
5-208   Renewal
   
5-209   Denial, revocation or suspension of license; notice
   
5-210   Appeal to governing body
   
5-211   Regulations
   
5-212   Use of streets and sidewalks
   
5-213   Disturbing the peace
§ 5-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether a resident of the city or
not, whose business is mainly or principally carried on by traveling either by
foot, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to
place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or attempting to
take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any
nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or
performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes
for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he or she is
collecting advance payments on such sales or not. Such definition shall include
any person, who, for himself, herself or for another person, hires, leases,
uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel
room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the city for the
sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by
foot, automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden
truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling
from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon,
automotive vehicle, railroad boxcar or other vehicle or conveyance, and further
provided, that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes
deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this article shall be deemed a peddler.
   RESIDENCE. Includes every separate living unit occupied for residential
purposes by one or more persons contained within any type of building or
structure.
   SOLICITING. Includes any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services, of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character; or
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication.
   STREET SALESPERSON. Any person engaged in any manner in selling merchandise
of any kind from a vehicle or stand temporarily located on the public streets
or sidewalks of this city.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person,
whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city
or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods,
wares and merchandise within such city, and who, in furtherance of such
purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar or boat, public room in hotels, lodging houses,
apartments, shops or any street, alley or other place within the city, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction. Such definition shall not be construed to include any person
who, while occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock, but
exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery
only. The person so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this article merely by reason of associating temporarily with any
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient
business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer.
§ 5-202 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the activities
defined in the preceding sections of this article, within the corporate limits
of the city without then having an unrevoked and unexpired license therefor in
his or her possession and issued by the City Clerk.
   (b)   The governing body may waive the license requirements of this section
for any person, firm or corporation exempt from the payment of a license fee
under §
5-207 of this article.
§ 5-203 SAME; APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Before the City Clerk may issue any license required by this article, he or
she shall require a sworn application in writing prepared in duplicate on a
form to be supplied by the City Clerk that shall give the following
information:
   (a)   Name and description of applicant;
   (b)   Permanent home address and full local address of applicant;
   (c)   Identification of applicant including driver’s license number, date of
birth, expiration date of license and description of applicant;
   (d)   Identification of vehicle used by applicant including license therefor
used by applicant in conducting his or her business;
   (e)   A brief description of the nature of the business to be carried on or
the goods to be sold and the length of time such applicant has been engaged in
the business;
   (f)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing such relationship, including the authority by the
employer authorizing the applicant to represent the employer in conducting
business;
   (g)   The length of time that business is proposed to be carried on;
   (h)   The place where services are to be performed or where the goods or
property proposed to be sold or orders taken for the sale thereof are
manufactured or produced, where such goods or products are located at the time
the application is filed and the proposed method of delivery;
   (i)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 90 days prior to the date
of making application which picture shall be at least two inches by two inches
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing
manner; or in lieu thereof, the fingerprints of the applicant may be taken by
the County Sheriff and filed with the application;
   (j)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has within two years
prior to the date of the application been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor
(other than minor traffic violations) or violation of any municipal law
regulating peddlers, solicitors or canvassers and giving the nature of the
offenses, the punishment assessed therefor, if any, and the city and state
where conviction occurred; and
   (k)   The applicant’s state sales tax number.
§ 5-204 ISSUANCE; COUNTY RESIDENTS.
   (a)   Except as provided in §
5-209 of this article, if the applicant is a current resident of the county,
upon receipt of an application for a license and payment of the license fee,
the City Clerk shall issue the license. Such license shall contain the
signature and seal of the issuing officer and shall show the name and address
of the licensee, the date of issuance and length of time the license shall be
operative, and the nature of the business involved. The City Clerk shall keep a
permanent record of all such licenses issued and submit a copy of such license
to the County Sheriff. The licensee shall carry the license certificate at all
times.
   (b)   If the applicant is not a current resident of the county, a license
will not be issued until after investigation and payment of the investigation
fee as provided in §§
5-205 and
5-206 of this article.
§ 5-205 SAME; INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE; NON-COUNTY RESIDENT.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the above application from an applicant who is not a
current resident of the county, the City Clerk shall refer the same to the
County Sheriff who shall cause an investigation of the facts stated therein to
be made within not to exceed five days.
   (b)   If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory or the facts stated
therein to be untrue, the County Sheriff shall endorse on such application his
or her findings and endorse his or her disapproval of the application and the
reasons for the same and shall return the application to the City Clerk who
then shall notify the applicant that his or her application is disapproved and
that no license will be issued.
   (c)   If however, the investigation of such application discloses that the
character and business responsibility and the facts stated in the application
are satisfactory and true, the County Sheriff shall endorse his or her findings
and approval on the application and return the same to the City Clerk who
shall, upon payment of the license and investigation fees prescribed, issue a
license to the applicant to engage in the business described in the
application. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing
officer and shall show the name and address of the licensee, the date of
issuance and length of time the license shall be operative, and the nature of
the business involved. The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all such
licenses issued and submit a copy of such license to the County Sheriff. The
licensee shall carry the license certificate at all times.
§ 5-206 SAME; INVESTIGATION FEE.
   At the time of filing the application, a fee, as set by policy of the
governing body, shall be paid to the City Clerk to cover the cost of
investigation of the facts stated in the foregoing application.
§ 5-207 LICENSE FEE; TIME LIMITS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   (1)   The following fee for the canvasser or solicitor license will be
$25 per day or $250 annually per salesperson.
      (2)   The investigation fee annually for non-county residents will be the
fee charged by the state’s Bureau of Investigation for a background check.
   (b)   Any such license granted upon application as required hereinabove
shall be limited to and effective only on the days set out in the license.
Solicitation or sales by any peddler, solicitor or canvasser shall be conducted
only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (c)   Persons and firms not having a permanently established place of
business in the city, but having a permanently established house-to-house or
wholesale business shall receive a license as required by §
5-202 of this article upon payment for any year, and may make solicitations or
sales only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., or upon invitation at
any hour.
   (d)   No license fee shall be required of:
      (1)   Any person selling products of the farm or orchard actually
produced by the seller;
      (2)   Any businesses, trades or occupations that are part of fairs or
celebrations sponsored by the city or any other governmental subdivision, or
the state, or when part of all of the expenses of the fairs or celebrations are
paid for by the city, any other governmental subdivision or the state; and
      (3)   Any not-for-profit or charitable organization as determined by the
governing body.
(Res. 309, passed 4-4-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1617
§ 5-208 RENEWAL.
   (a)   All licenses issued shall be subject to renewal upon a showing of
compliance with §§
5-202 and
5-203 of this article within a six-month-period prior to the renewal date.
   (b)   The City Clerk need not require an additional application under § 5-
203 of this article or an additional investigation and investigation fee under
§§
5-205 and
5-206 of this article unless complaints have been received of violations of the
conditions in which any license has heretofore been issued. The City Clerk
shall not renew or extend any license if there is satisfactory evidence of any
grounds for the suspension or revocation of any prior license, and the
applicant shall be required to apply for a license as in the case of an
original license.
§ 5-209 DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; NOTICE.
   The City Clerk or County Sheriff may deny any application or may revoke or
suspend for a period of not to exceed 30 days any license issued under this
article, for any of the following causes:
   (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   (b)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business;
   (c)   Any violation of this article;
   (d)   Conducting a business as defined in §
5-201 of this article in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the city. Notice of the denial, revocation or
suspension of a license shall be given in writing to the applicant or mailed to
his or her last known address and the City Clerk shall set forth the grounds of
such denial, revocation or suspension; and
   (e)   Conviction of the crime of theft, larceny, fraud, embezzlement or any
felony within two years before the application date.
§ 5-210 APPEAL TO GOVERNING BODY.
   (a)   Any person aggrieved by the action of the County Sheriff or City Clerk
in the denial of an application or revocation or suspension of a license as
provided in this article, shall have the right of appeal to the governing body.
   (b)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Clerk within 14
days after notice of revocation, suspension or denial of the license has been
given to or mailed to such applicant’s last known address and setting forth the
grounds for appeal.
   (c)   The governing body shall set a time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant in the same
manner as provided herein for notice of denial, revocation or suspension.
   (d)   The decision and order of the governing body on such appeal shall be
final and conclusive.
§ 5-211 REGULATIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to make false or fraudulent
statements concerning the quality of nature of his or her goods, wares and
merchandise for the purpose of inducing another to purchase the same.
   (b)   Licensees are required to exhibit their license at the request of any
person to whom they attempt to sell their goods, wares and merchandise or take
orders for future delivery of the same.
§ 5-212 USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Except when authorized in writing by the City Clerk, no peddler, solicitor
or canvasser or any other person shall have exclusive right to any location in
the public streets for the purpose of selling or soliciting sales, nor shall
any person be permitted a stationary location in the public streets, nor shall
any person be permitted to operate in the sidewalks and streets within the fire
limits of the city or any congested area where his or her operations might
impede or inconvenience the public.
§ 5-213 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   Except when authorized in writing by the City Clerk, no licensee, nor any
person in his or her behalf, shall use any sound device, including any loud-
speaking radio or sound-amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys,
parks or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the
city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be
capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or
other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods,
wares or merchandise that such licensee proposes to sell.
ARTICLE 3: CARNIVALS, CIRCUSES
Section
   
5-301   License required
   
5-302   Same; record
   
5-303   Same; carnival
   
5-304   Same; circus; menageries
   
5-305   Same; concessions
   
5-306   Same; Ferris wheels and the like
§ 5-301 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, either as principal or agent or employee, shall conduct or
operate any carnival, circus, concession, side show or similar occupation
without first procuring a license as provided in this article.
§ 5-302 SAME; RECORD.
   The City Clerk shall keep a record of all licenses issued under this
article, payments therefor, and shall notify the County Sheriff of the
expiration date thereof. Such license shall be carried and presented for
inspection at all times. Licenses issued under this article shall not be
transferable.
§ 5-303 SAME; CARNIVAL.
   The license fee shall be $5 per day for each show, stand, entertainment,
device or concession.
§ 5-304 SAME; CIRCUS; MENAGERIES.
   Where an admission charge of less than $1 is made, the license fee shall be
$50 per day. Where an admission charge of more than $1 or more is made, the
license fee shall be $100 per day.
§ 5-305 SAME; CONCESSIONS.
   The license fee shall be $5 per day for each doll rack, shooting gallery,
side show, knife rack, cane rack and other stands of business of similar nature
which are not paid for as a part of a carnival or circus license.
§ 5-306 SAME; FERRIS WHEELS AND THE LIKE.
   The license fee shall be $5 per day for each Ferris wheel, merry-go-round,
figure eight or similar ride and which is not included as a part of a carnival
or circus license.
ARTICLE 4: NEW GOODS AUCTIONS
Section
   
5-401   State Act incorporated
   
5-402   License application
   
5-403   Same; fee
§ 5-401 STATE ACT INCORPORATED.
   The provisions of the New Goods Public Auction Law, being K.S.A. 58-1014 et
seq. and amendments thereto, are hereby incorporated and made a part of this
article as if fully set out herein. Said provisions shall regulate the sale of
new goods at public auction within the city.
§ 5-402 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person seeking a license for a new goods public auction shall make
application to the City Clerk upon forms to be provided by the city.
§ 5-403 SAME; FEE.
   The license fee for a new goods public auction shall be $25 per day.
ARTICLE 5: SCRAP METAL DEALER REGISTRATION
Section
   
5-501   Registration required
   
5-502   Definitions
   
5-503   Registration; application; fees; penalty
   
5-504   Issuance of registration; renewal; renewal fees
   
5-505   Penalty
   
5-506   Exception
   
5-507   Issuance; disqualification
   
5-508   Suspension or revocation of registration
§ 5-501 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   On and after the effective date of this article, it shall be unlawful for
any business to purchase any regulated scrap metal without having first
registered each place of business within the city, as herein provided.
§ 5-502 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BALES OF REGULATED METAL. Regulated scrap metal properly processed with
professional recycling equipment by compression, shearing or shredding, to a
form in which it may be sold by a scrap metal dealer consistent with industry
standards.
   FERROUS METAL. A metal that contains iron or steel.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle not requiring a title as provided in K.S.A. Chapter
8, and amendments thereto, aircraft, boat, farming implement, industrial
equipment, trailer or any other conveyance used on the highways and roadways,
which has no use or resale value, except as scrap.
   NON-FERROUS METAL. A metal that does not contain iron or steel, including,
but not limited to, copper, brass, aluminum, bronze, lead, zinc, nickel and
their alloys.
   REGULATED SCRAP METAL. Wire, cable, bars, ingots, wire scraps, pieces,
pellets, clamps, aircraft parts, junk vehicles, vehicle parts, pipes or
connectors made from aluminum; catalytic converters containing platinum,
palladium or rhodium; and copper, titanium, tungsten, stainless steel and
nickel in any form; for which the purchase price described in K.S.A. 50-6,110
and 50-6,111, and amendments thereto, was primarily based on the content
therein of aluminum, copper, titanium, tungsten, nickel, platinum, palladium,
stainless steel or rhodium; any item composed in whole or in part of any non-
ferrous metal other than an item composed of tin, that is purchased or
otherwise acquired for the purpose of recycling or storage for later recycling.
Aluminum shall not include food or beverage containers.
   REGULATED SCRAP METAL YARD. Any yard, plot, space, enclosure, building or
any other place where regulated scrap metal is collected, gathered together and
stored or kept for shipment, sale or transfer.
   SCRAP METAL DEALER. Any person that operates a business out of a fixed
location, and that is also either:
      (1)   Engaged in the business of buying and dealing in regulated scrap
metal;
      (2)   Purchasing, gathering, collecting, soliciting or procuring
regulated scrap metal; or
      (3)   Operating, carrying on, conducting or maintaining a regulated scrap
metal yard or place where regulated scrap metal is gathered together and stored
or kept for shipment, sale or transfer.
   TIN. A metal consisting predominantly of light sheet metal ferrous scrap,
including large and small household appliances, construction siding and
construction roofing.
   VEHICLE PART. The front clip consisting of the two front fenders, hood,
grill and front bumper of an automobile assembled as one unit; or the rear clip
consisting of those body parts behind the rear edge of the back doors,
including both rear quarter panels, the rear window, trunk lid, trunk floor
panel and rear bumper, assembled as one unit; or any other vehicle part.
§ 5-503 REGISTRATION; APPLICATION; FEES; PENALTY.
   (a)   (1)   Application for registration for a scrap metal dealer shall be
verified and made upon a form furnished by the city and approved by the
Attorney General and shall contain:
         (A)   The name and residence of the applicant;
         (B)   The length of time that the applicant has resided within the
state and a list of all residences outside the state during the previous ten
years;
         (C)   The particular place of business for which a registration is
desired;
         (D)   The name of the owner of the premises upon which the place of
business is located; and
         (E)   The applicant shall disclose any prior convictions within ten
years immediately preceding the date of making the registration for theft, as
defined in K.S.A. 21-3701, prior to its repeal, or K.S.A. 21-5801, and
amendments thereto, theft of property lost, mislaid or delivered by mistake, as
defined in K.S.A. 21-3703, prior to its repeal, or K.S.A. 21-5802, and
amendments thereto, theft of services, as defined in K.S.A. 21-3704, prior to
its repeal, criminal deprivation of property, as defined in K.S.A. 21-3705,
prior to its repeal, or K.S.A. 21-5803, and amendments thereto, or any other
crime involving possession of stolen property.
      (2)   In addition to the information required in division (a)(1)(E)
above, the applicant shall also disclose any prior convictions within ten years
immediately preceding the date of making the application for registration for
any federal or local crime or offense similar to those stated in division (a)
(1)(E) above, to include, but not be limited to, §§ 6.1, theft, 6.3, theft of
lost or mislaid property, and 6.5, criminal deprivation of property, and
amendments thereto, of the Uniform Public Offense Code for Kansas Cities.
   (b)   Each registration for a scrap metal dealer to purchase regulated scrap
metal shall be accompanied by a fee of $100.
   (c)   The City Clerk shall provide the County Sheriff written notice of the
filing of registration by a scrap metal dealer within ten days of registration
or renewal.
§ 5-504 ISSUANCE OF REGISTRATION; RENEWAL; RENEWAL FEES.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the application for registration, the application fee
and verifying the information contained in the registration application that
the applicant is qualified; the City Clerk shall forward the application to the
governing body, or its designee. The governing body, or its designee, shall
accept a registration for a scrap metal dealer, as otherwise provided for
herein, from any scrap metal dealer engaged in business in the city and
qualified to file such registration, to purchase regulated scrap metals.
   (b)   Registrations issued hereunder, unless revoked as herein provided,
shall be effective for a period of ten years.
   (c)   If an original registration is accepted, the governing body, or its
designee, shall grant and issue renewals thereof upon application of the
registration holder, if the registration holder is qualified to receive the
same and the registration has not been revoked as provided by law. The
registration fee for such renewal shall be $25.
   (d)   No registration or renewal issued hereunder shall be transferable.
§ 5-505 PENALTY.
   Violation of §
5-501 of this article is a class A violation and punishable by a fine of not
more than $2,500 or imprisonment in jail for not more than 12 months or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
§ 5-506 EXCEPTION.
   This article shall not apply to a business licensed under the provisions of
K.S.A. 8-2404, and amendments thereto, unless such business buys or recycles
regulated scrap metal that are not motor vehicle components.
§ 5-507 ISSUANCE; DISQUALIFICATION.
   (a)   After examining the information contained in a filing for a scrap
metal dealer registration and determining the registration meets the statutory
requirements for such registration, the governing body, or its designee, shall
accept such filing and the scrap metal dealer shall be deemed to be properly
registered.
   (b)   No scrap metal registration shall be accepted for:
      (1)   A person who is under 18 years of age and whose parents or legal
guardians have been convicted of a felony or other crime which would disqualify
a person from registration under this section and such crime was committed
during the time that such parents or legal guardians held a registration under
this article;
      (2)   A person who, within five years immediately preceding the date of
filing, has pled guilty to, been convicted of, released from incarceration for
or released from probation or parole for committing, attempting to commit, or
conspiring to commit a violation of K.S.A. Chapter 21, Article 37, prior to
their repeal, or K.S.A. 21-5801 through 21-5839 and K.S.A. 21-6412(a)(6),
perjury, K.S.A. 21-3805, prior to its repeal, or K.S.A. 21-5903, compounding a
crime, K.S.A. 21-3807, prior to its repeal, obstructing legal process or
official duty, K.S.A. 21-3808, prior to its repeal, falsely reporting a crime,
K.S.A. 21-3818, prior to its repeal, interference with the County Sheriff,
K.S.A. 21-5904, interference with judicial process, K.S.A. 21-5905, or any
crime involving moral turpitude;
      (3)   A person who, within the five years immediately preceding the date
of registration, has pled guilty to, been found guilty of, or entered a
diversion agreement for violating the provisions of § 5-501 of this article,
and amendments thereto, K.S.A. 50-6,109 et seq., and amendments thereto, the
laws of another state comparable to such provisions or laws of any county or
city regulating the sale or purchase of regulated scrap metal three or more
times;
      (4)   A person who, within the three years immediately preceding the date
of registration, held a scrap metal dealer registration which was revoked, or
managed a facility for a scrap metal dealer whose registration was revoked, or
was an employee whose conduct led to or contributed to the revocation of such
registration;
      (5)   A person who makes a materially false statement on the registration
application or has made a materially false statement on a registration or
similar filing within the last three years;
      (6)   A partnership or limited liability company, unless all members of
the partnership or limited liability company are otherwise qualified to file a
registration;
      (7)   A corporation, if any manager, officer or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of such
corporation, would be ineligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason;
      (8)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses all of the qualifications for
registration; or
      (9)   A person whose spouse has been convicted of a felony or other crime
which would disqualify a person from registration under this section and such
crime was committed during the time that the spouse held a registration under
this article.
§ 5-508 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   (a)   The governing body, upon five days’ notice to the persons holding a
registration, may suspend the scrap metal dealer’s registration for up to 30
days for any one of the following reasons:
      (1)   The registrant has been convicted of violating any of the
provisions of K.S.A. 50-6,109 et seq., and amendments thereto, or any similar
ordinance or code provisions adopted by the city;
      (2)   The employment or continuation in employment of a person if the
registered scrap metal dealer knows such person has, within the 24 months prior
to the notice of suspension or revocation action, been convicted of violating
any of the provisions of K.S.A. 50-6,109 et seq., and amendments thereto, or
the laws of another state comparable to such provisions, or any city ordinance,
or regulation controlling scrap metal sale or purchase in Kansas or any other
state; or
      (3)   Permitting any criminal activity under the State’s Criminal Code,
or similar ordinance adopted by the city in or upon the registrant’s place of
business.
   (b)   The governing body may revoke the registration of a scrap metal dealer
who has had its registration suspended three or more times within a 24-month
period.
   (c)   The governing body, upon five days’ notice to the person holding the
registration, shall revoke or suspend the registration for any one of the
following reasons:
      (1)   The registrant has fraudulently registered by knowingly giving
materially false information on the registration form;
      (2)   The registrant has become ineligible to obtain a registration under
this article;
      (3)   The non-payment of any registration fees after receiving written
notice that such registration fees are more than 30 days past due; or
      (4)   Within 20 days after the order of the governing body denying,
revoking or suspending any registration, the registrant may appeal to the
District Court and the District Court shall proceed to hear such appeal as
though the court had original jurisdiction of the matter. Upon request by the
registrant, the District Court may enjoin the revocation or suspension of a
registration until final disposition of any action brought under this article.
   (d)   Any action brought under divisions (a), (b) or (c) above shall be
brought individually against a single registrant’s site and not against any
other scrap metal sites or locations registered by the same individual, company
or business entity.
CHAPTER VI: ELECTIONS
   Article
      
1.   CITY ELECTIONS
      
2.   WARDS
ARTICLE 1: CITY ELECTIONS
Section
   
6-101   Elections
   
6-102   County Election Officer
   
6-103   Registration
   
6-104   Candidates
   
6-105   Filing date deadline
   
6-106   Hours of voting
§ 6-101 ELECTIONS.
   The Mayor, Treasurer and one Council member from each ward shall be elected
on the Tuesday succeeding the first Monday of each odd-numbered year beginning
November 2021, and one Council member from each ward shall be elected on the
Tuesday succeeding the first Monday of each odd- numbered year beginning
November 2023. The Mayor and Treasurer shall have terms of two years and the
Council members shall have terms of four years. All shall hold office until
their successors are qualified. To be qualified to hold an office each officer,
after receipt of certificate of election from the county’s Election
Commissioners, must take and subscribe an oath on the first regular meeting on
or after December 1 following the November General Election. Failure to so
qualify is deemed a refusal to accept said office.
(Res. 280, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 6-102 COUNTY ELECTION OFFICER.
   The county’s Election Officer shall have charge of the administering of the
election and registration laws of the city and the county’s Board of Canvassers
shall have the final canvass on Friday following the elections on Tuesday and
others as provided by law. The certificate of nomination or election shall be
issued by the county’s Election Officer.
(K.S.A. 25-2303)
§ 6-103 REGISTRATION.
   All voters shall be registered under the supervision and direction of the
county’s Election Officer before being permitted to vote.
(K.S.A. 25-2302)
§ 6-104 CANDIDATES.
   Any person desiring to become a candidate for a city office elected at large
shall file with the county’s Election Officer before the filing deadline, a
nomination petition or a declaration of candidacy, accompanied by any fee
required by law. The nomination petition must be signed by 25 electors eligible
to vote for such candidate or by the number of electors equal to 10% of the
ballots cast and counted at the last general city election, whichever is the
lesser.
(Ord. 1401, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 6-105 FILING DATE DEADLINE.
   The filing date deadline for a city officer shall be at the date and time
prescribed by the county’s Election Officer.
(Ord. 1402, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 6-106 HOURS OF VOTING.
   At all city elections, the polls shall be open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 7:
00 p.m., unless different hours are set and publicly announced by the county’s
Election Officer.
(K.S.A. 25-2111, 26-206)
ARTICLE 2: WARDS
Section
   
6-201   Division of wards
   
6-202   Change of wards
§ 6-201 DIVISION OF WARDS.
   The city is hereby divided into three wards:
   (a)   Ward 1 shall be and include all that part of the city south of State
Street east of Fifth Street to Fischer Drive; westward along Fischer Drive to
the tributary of Plotner Creek within the city limit;
   (b)   Ward 2 shall be and include all that part of city which is north of
State Street; and
   (c)   Ward 3 shall be and include all that part of city which is south of
State Street and west of Fifth Street to Fischer Drive and the tributary of
Plotner Creek within the city limits.
(Ord. 1448, passed 12-30-2022)
§ 6-202 CHANGE OF WARDS.
   When the number of registered voters in any ward exceeds by more than 20%,
the number of registered voters in any other ward, the City Council must change
and redefine the boundaries of the wards so that the number of registered
voters in each of the wards are as nearly equal as possible, but no such change
can be made within 30 days prior to the date fixed for the holding of an
election of any kind in such wards.
(K.S.A. 14-103)
CHAPTER VII: FIRE
   Article
      
1.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
3.   FLAMMABLE AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
      
4.   FIREWORKS
ARTICLE 1: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
7-101   Fire Department
   
7-102   Membership, appointment
   
7-103   Chief; duties and powers; equipment
   
7-104   Same; at fires
   
7-105   Same; firefighters
   
7-106   Same; records
   
7-107   Assistant Chief; powers and duties
   
7-108   Obstructing fire hydrant
   
7-109   Private use of equipment
   
7-110   Duties of firefighters
   
7-111   Practice drills
   
7-112   Prohibited acts
§ 7-101 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established a Fire Department in the city to consist of a
Chief, an Assistant Chief and not less than ten, nor more than 15, persons per
company. There shall be a total of two companies as follows: one city company
and one rural company.
§ 7-102 MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the Council, the Chief,
Assistant Chief and firefighters of the Fire Department.
§ 7-103 CHIEF; DUTIES AND POWERS; EQUIPMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be under the supervision of the Mayor
and shall have superintendency and control over and be responsible for the care
and condition of the fire apparatus and equipment. It shall be the Chief’s duty
to see that all such apparatus and equipment shall be at all times ready for
immediate use and shall submit a written report as to its condition to the
Mayor and Council at their first meeting in October.
§ 7-104 SAME; AT FIRES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have full power, control and command
over all persons present at fires. The Chief shall direct the use of all fire
apparatus and equipment and command all firefighters in the discharge of their
duties. The Chief shall take such measures as may deem necessary in the
preservation and protection of property and the extinguishing of fires.
§ 7-105 SAME; FIREFIGHTERS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be responsible for the discipline of
members and may suspend or expel any member for the refusal to obey orders or
for misconduct or failure to do his or her duty at a fire. The Chief shall have
the right to summon any and all persons present to aid in extinguishing a fire,
or to aid in removing personal property from any building on fire or in danger
thereof and in guarding the same.
§ 7-106 SAME; RECORDS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep in convenient form a complete
record of all fires. Such information shall include the time and location,
construction of building, owner, occupancy, how extinguished, value of building
and contents, insurance on building and contents, members responding to the
alarm and any other information deemed advisable and make all reports required
by law of the Chief of the Fire Department.
§ 7-107 ASSISTANT CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform all the
duties and have all the authority and responsibility of the Chief as conferred
by this article.
§ 7-108 OBSTRUCTING FIRE HYDRANT.
   No person shall place or cause to be placed upon or about any fire hydrant
any rubbish, building material, fence or other obstruction of any character
whatsoever, in any manner to obstruct, hinder or delay the Fire Department in
the performance of its duties in case of fire; nor shall any person hitch or
cause to be hitched to any fire hydrant, any animal or animals nor fasten to
same any guy rope or brace, nor back or stand any wagon, truck, automobile or
other vehicle within 15 feet of any such hydrant.
§ 7-109 PRIVATE USE OF EQUIPMENT.
   No person or persons shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any
private purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority,
remove, take away, keep or conceal any tool, appliance or other article used in
any way by the Fire Department.
§ 7-110 DUTIES OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   Any subordinate officer or firefighter who refuses or neglects to attend any
fire or practice drill without submitting an excuse which is satisfactory to
the Chief or neglects or refuses to do his or her duty or to obey the orders of
the Chief or his or her proper commanding officer or who leaves his or her post
of duty while at a fire, without the permission of the Chief or commanding
officer shall be fined the amount paid for responding to each fire alarm and be
subject to expulsion from the Fire Department. If three consecutive meetings
are missed, he or she will be automatically dismissed.
§ 7-111 PRACTICE DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department, after due notice,
to hold a practice drill or meeting of not less than two hours at least once
every month. It shall be the duty of each member of the Fire Department to
attend the practice drill the same as all fire alarms.
§ 7-112 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, except those
operated by fire officials, within the block in which a fire occurs during the
fire. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle over a fire
hose.
ARTICLE 2: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
7-201   Fire Prevention Code incorporated
   
7-202   Same; enforcement
   
7-203   Same; amendments
   
7-204   Open burning
   
7-205   Accumulation of rubbish and trash
   
7-206   Stacking of hay or straw
   
7-207   Keeping of packing materials
   
7-208   Storage of ashes
   
7-209   Filling gasoline tanks of motor vehicles
   
7-210   Fire hazards generally
   
7-211   Same; inspections to discover
   
7-212   Abatement of fire hazards; issuing order
   
7-213   Same; service of order; records
§ 7-201 FIRE PREVENTION CODE INCORPORATED.
   There is hereby adopted by the governing body of the city, for the purpose
of prescribing regulations, governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion, that certain code and standards known as the
International Fire Code, 2012 Edition, including all the appendix chapters,
published by the International Code Council, one copy shall be filed in the
office of the Clerk of the city, and the same are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on
which this article shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the city.
(Ord. 1351, passed 2-2-2009)
§ 7-202 SAME; ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
§ 7-203 SAME; AMENDMENTS.
   (a)   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the code hereby adopted, it
shall be held to mean the City of Phillipsburg.
   (b)   All sections of the Uniform Fire Code relating to fireworks are hereby
deleted in their entirety.
§ 7-204 OPEN BURNING.
[Reserved]
§ 7-205 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH AND TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to accumulate or to keep in any
part of any building or outside of and adjacent to any building or in any
alley, sidewalk, street or premises within 30 feet of any building any rubbish,
trash, waste paper, excelsior, empty boxes, barrels or other combustibles that
shall constitute a fire hazard.
§ 7-206 STACKING OF HAY OR STRAW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, stack or store any hay or
straw within 500 feet of any building located inside the fire limits of the
city.
§ 7-207 KEEPING OF PACKING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep excelsior or other packing material in any
other than metal or wood metal lined boxes or bins having self-closing or
automatic covers. All refuse and trash from rooms where packing or unpacking is
done shall be removed daily.
§ 7-208 STORAGE OF ASHES.
   It shall be unlawful to store ashes inside of any non-fire-proof building
unless they are stored in a noncombustible container or receptacle, and a
clearance of at least five feet shall be maintained between such container or
receptacle and any combustible materials not placed therein. Ashes shall not be
stored outside of any building in wooden, plastic or paper product receptacles
or dumped in contact with or in close proximity to any combustible materials.
§ 7-209 FILLING GASOLINE TANKS OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   The engines of motor vehicles shall be stopped when the gasoline tanks
of such vehicles are being filled with gasoline at service stations or other
places where gasoline is supplied to motor vehicles.
   (b)   The driver or person in control of such vehicle when the gasoline tank
of same is being filled who refuses, neglects or fails to stop the engine of
such vehicle shall likewise be guilty of a violation of this code.
§ 7-210 FIRE HAZARDS GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause or create anywhere within the city,
or to permit on any premises under his or her control, any situation or
condition that is conducive to or likely to cause or permit the outbreak of
fire or the spreading of fire. Any situation or condition conducive to the
outbreak of or spreading of fire is declared to be a fire hazard. The violation
of or failure to comply with any law pertaining to the storage, handling or use
of inflammable oils, explosives, liquefied petroleum gases or fertilizers and
all wires and other conductors charged with electricity, is declared to be a
fire hazard. The placing of stools, chairs or any other obstruction in the
aisles, hallways, doorway or exit of any theater, public hall, auditorium,
church or other place of indoor public assemblage, or the failure to provide
any such place of public assemblage with sufficient, accessible and
unobstructed fire exits and escapes is also declared to be a fire hazard. The
obstruction of any street, avenue, alley, fire hydrant or any other condition
that might delay the Fire Department in fighting fire is declared to be
unlawful.
§ 7-211 SAME; INSPECTIONS TO DISCOVER.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to inspect or cause to be inspected
by Fire Department officers or members, as often as may be necessary, all
buildings, particularly all mercantile buildings, manufacturing plants,
warehouses, garages, hotels, boarding houses, rooming houses, theaters,
auditoriums and all places of public assemblage, for the purpose of discovering
the violation of any fire preventive law or any fire hazard and ascertaining
and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fires and to see
that all places of public assemblage, hotels and rooming houses have sufficient
and unobstructed facilities for escape therefrom in case of fire.
§ 7-212 ABATEMENT OF FIRE HAZARDS; ISSUING ORDER.
   Whenever any officer or member of the Fire Department shall find or discover
any fire hazard or shall find in any building or upon any premises combustible
or explosive material or dangerous accumulation of rubbish or unnecessary
accumulation of paper, boxes, shavings or any other inflammable material, so
situated as to endanger property by the probability of fire, or shall find or
discover any violation of this chapter or any other law hazardous to public
safety from fires, the Fire Chief shall order the fire hazard or danger from
the fire forthwith abated and remedied and such order shall be complied with
immediately by the owner or occupant of such buildings or premises. If the
hazard or condition ordered abated and remedied is a violation of, or a failure
to comply with any law, the Fire Chief shall report the matter to the City
Attorney and he or she shall, if he or she deems it advisable, prosecute the
offender.
§ 7-213 SAME; SERVICE OF ORDER; RECORDS.
   Any order made under §
7-212 of this article shall be in writing and may be served personally upon the
owner or occupant of the premises or by leaving it with any person in charge of
the premises or if the premises are unoccupied and the owner is a non-resident
of the city, then by mailing a copy to the owner’s last known post office
address. One notice to either the occupant or owner shall be sufficient. The
Fire Chief shall keep a record of and copies of all such orders and notices and
shall follow up such notices at the expiration of the time for compliance
therewith and when complied with make proper entry, and if not complied with,
file complaint with the Municipal Court against the property owner and/or
occupant.
ARTICLE 3: FLAMMABLE AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
Section
   
7-301   Tank trucks in fire limits
   
7-302   Storage of inflammable liquids
   
7-303   Storage of flammable liquids
§ 7-301 TANK TRUCKS IN FIRE LIMITS.
   (a)   TANK TRUCKS, as used in this article, shall mean any motor propelled
or drawn vehicle used for the transportation of flammable liquids or liquefied
petroleum gases and which for such purpose is provided with a tank or tanks
mounted on the frame or chassis of such vehicle.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, stand or store any tank
truck, whether loaded or empty, within the fire limits of the city, except
while actually engaged in the expeditious loading, unloading or delivery of
flammable liquids or liquefied petroleum gases at a service station or other
permanent receiving installation. Such vehicle may be stored or parked in a
garage or repair shop within the fire limits for the purpose of repairing the
vehicle.
§ 7-302 STORAGE OF INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept in
any building or upon any premises within the city limits, more than five
gallons of gasoline, fuel oil, coal oil or motor spirits, in any one container
and not to exceed two containers on such premises.
   (b)   Any person desiring to store a larger quantity shall provide an
underground storage tank, the top of which shall be at least two feet below the
surface of the ground and below the level of the lowest pipe in the building to
be supplied. The tank shall be set on a firm foundation surrounded by soft
earth or sand well tamped in place or encased in concrete.
   (c)   Underground tank yards shall be kept securely fenced and with at least
six inches of gravel, chat, cinders or other large aggregate over the area
occupied by the tanks and in a clean, orderly manner free from rubbish, weeds,
trash or other inflammable substances.
   (d)   The city governing body by motion or resolution may exempt any person
and/or persons or entity from the provisions of this section and allow the
above ground storage of oil and/or fuel products on property within the city
limits which has been primarily and continually used for oil and/or fuel
storage since on or before the year 1975.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store any of the above
mentioned liquids in violation of state law.
(Ord. 1207, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 7-303 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   (a)   When the state’s Department of Health and Environment has determined
that the public interest will best be served by the removal of flammable
hydrocarbons from the underground water aquifer within the city limits, then
with the approval of the Chief of the Fire Department, aboveground flammable or
combustible liquid tanks may be installed; provided that, all applicable
sections of the Uniform Fire Code are complied with.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for a contractor of the state’s Department of
Health and Environment or any other contractor to commence removal of flammable
hydrocarbons from the underground water aquifer within the city limits, unless
proof of comprehensive public liability insurance is first secured from a
responsible insurance company, licensed to do business in the state and
satisfactory to the city, properly protecting and indemnifying the city and all
persons within in an amount of not less than $500,000 for injury to or death of
any person per occurrence, and not less than $500,000 for property damage per
occurrence. Contractor shall furnish the City Clerk with a certificate or
certificates of insurance.
(Ord. 1224, passed 6-6-1994)
ARTICLE 4: FIREWORKS
Section
   
7-401   Fireworks defined
   
7-402   Fireworks prohibited
   
7-403   Reserved
   
7-404   Same: exception; sale of fireworks
   
7-405   Permit for sale of fireworks required; fee; issuance
   
7-406   Permit for public fireworks display required
   
7-407   Approved fireworks; bottle rockets prohibited
   
7-408   Discharge on streets, public and private property; special use event
permit
   
7-409   Throwing prohibited
   
7-410   Sale of fireworks; where prohibited
   
7-411   Retail display of fireworks
   
7-412   Fire extinguishers required
   
7-413   Restrictions as to gasoline installations
   
7-414   Authority of Fire Chief
   
7-415   Banning fireworks
§ 7-401 FIREWORKS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Those items as defined by the rules and regulations of the State
Fire Marshal, and shall include but not be limited to: firecrackers, torpedoes,
sparklers, Roman candles, sky rockets, pin wheels, cap or toy pistols (except
such pistols or any like device designed to discharge paper caps containing not
more than 0.25 grains of explosive mixture), canes, bombs, cannons or other
like devices and all classes of fireworks that may be shot into the air or
propelled over the ground by explosive discharges or any device using blank
cartridges.
§ 7-402 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Except as provided in §§
7-403 to
7-406 of this article, it shall be unlawful for any person to keep, store,
display for sale, fire, discharge or explode any fireworks.
   (b)   Nothing in this article shall be construed as applying to:
      (1)   Toy paper caps containing not more than 0.25 of a grain of
explosive composition per cap;
      (2)   The manufacture, storage, sale or authorized use of signals
necessary for the safe operation of railroads or other classes of public or
private transportation;
      (3)   The military or naval forces of the United States or of the state
while in the performance of official duty;
      (4)   The County Sheriff while in the performance of official duty; or
      (5)   The sale or use of blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or
athletic events.
§ 7-403 RESERVED.
§ 7-404 SAME: EXCEPTION; SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   Any person who has first obtained a valid permit to sell fireworks within
the city may do so between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight commencing
June 27 and through July 5 of each year.
(Ord. 1375, passed 3-5-2012)
§ 7-405 PERMIT FOR SALE OF FIREWORKS REQUIRED; FEE; ISSUANCE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, display for sale, offer
to sell or give away any type of fireworks within the city without first paying
a fee as set by policy of the governing body, per establishment or premises to
the City Clerk and applying for and securing a permit therefor on or before
June 27 of the permit year.
   (b)   No permit shall be issued for any location where retail sales are not
permitted under the zoning laws. Before a permit is issued, an inspection will
be made of the applicant’s facility for compliance with this chapter and other
pertinent laws, and no permit shall be issued for any premises not in
compliance with such laws. Upon qualifying for the permit, the permittee shall
prominently display the same at the establishment or premises where fireworks
are to be sold or displayed for sale. The permit fee shall not be refundable
upon failure to qualify for the permit or withdrawal or cancellation of the
application or permit.
§ 7-406 PERMIT FOR PUBLIC FIREWORKS DISPLAY REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or provide a
fireworks display for the public or for organized groups without first
obtaining a permit to do so by making application at least 30 days in advance
of the desired display. Approval of the permit shall be by the governing body.
No permit shall be approved unless the applicant furnishes a certificate of
public liability insurance for the display in a minimum amount of $500,000,
written by an insurance carrier licensed to do business in the state,
conditioned as being non-cancellable, except by giving ten days’ advance
written notice to the City Clerk. In the event of cancellation of the insurance
prior to the display, the permit shall automatically be revoked and void.
      (2)   The application for the permit shall clearly state:
         (A)   The name of the applicant;
         (B)   The group for which the display is planned;
         (C)   The location of the display;
         (D)   The date and time of the display;
         (E)   The nature or kind of fireworks to be used;
         (F)   The name of the person, firm or corporation that will make the
actual discharge of the fireworks; and
         (G)   Anticipated need for police, fire or other municipal services.
   (b)   No permit shall be issued if the location, nature of the fireworks or
other relevant factor is such as to create an undue hazard or risk of harm or
damage to persons or property.
§ 7-407 APPROVED FIREWORKS; BOTTLE ROCKETS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   All fireworks offered for sale and discharged within the city shall be
of a type that has been tested and approved for sale and use within the state
by the state’s Fire Marshal.
   (b)   Bottle rockets and other similar self-propelled firework or fireworks
devices consisting of a tube and attached guiding stock or rod shall not be
sold or discharged in the city.
§ 7-408 DISCHARGE ON STREETS, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY; SPECIAL USE EVENT
PERMIT.
   (a)   General. It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, ignite or
fire any fireworks upon any public street, alley or avenue or in any park or
public place within the city.
   (b)   Discharge on private property. It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge, ignite or fire any fireworks upon any private property within the
city, except when fireworks legally go on sale from June 27 until July 5,
Superbowl Sunday, Memorial Day, Labor Day and New Year’s Eve of each year.
During the period and dates fireworks may be discharged, ignited or fired upon
any private property within the city, same may be discharged, ignited or fired
from 8:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m.; except, Superbowl Sunday, Memorial Day, July
4, Labor Day, and New Year’s Eve wherein same may be discharged, ignited or
fired from 8:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. midnight.
   (c)   Special use event permit. A special use event permit may be obtained
from the city to discharge, ignite or fire fireworks by filing with the city
office during posted office hours, Monday through Friday, a special use event
permit form at least 72 hours prior to the special use event date. The time,
place and manner for the allowed discharge of fireworks will be specified
therein and in no event earlier than 8:00 a.m. or later than 10:00 p.m. A
special use event, includes, but is not limited to: a home athletic sporting
event; homecoming event; birthday celebration; family event; and the like.
(Ord. 1426, passed 7-20-2020)
§ 7-409 THROWING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, cast or propel fireworks of
any kind in the direction of or into the path of any animal, person or group of
persons, or from, in the direction of, or into any vehicle of any kind.
§ 7-410 SALE OF FIREWORKS; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for fireworks to be stored, sold or displayed for
sale in a place of business where paint, oils, varnishes, turpentine or
gasoline or other flammable substances are kept, unless such fireworks are in a
separate and distinct section or department of the premises.
   (b)   Where the Fire Chief deems there is a fire hazard, he or she is hereby
authorized to have such hazard abated.
§ 7-411 RETAIL DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS.
   (a)   All retailers are forbidden to expose fireworks where the sun shines
through glass on the merchandise displayed, except where such fireworks are in
the original package.
   (b)   All fireworks displayed for sale must remain in original packages,
except where an attendant is on constant duty at all times where such fireworks
are on display; provided that, fireworks in open stock may be kept in show
cases or counters out of the reach of the public without an attendant being on
duty.
   (c)   Signs reading “Fireworks for Sale - No Smoking Allowed” shall be
displayed in the section of a store or premises set aside for the sale of
fireworks.
§ 7-412 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS REQUIRED.
   (a)   Two functioning and approved fire extinguishers must be provided and
kept in close proximity to the stock of fireworks in all permanent buildings
where fireworks are stored, sold or displayed for sale.
   (b)   Small stands, temporarily erected to be used as a place for storing
and selling fireworks only, shall have one such fire extinguisher, or in lieu
of the fire extinguisher, a pressurized water hose with nozzle end within five
feet of the fireworks stand.
§ 7-413 RESTRICTIONS AS TO GASOLINE INSTALLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to store, keep, sell, display for sale or discharge any
fireworks within 50 feet of any gasoline pump, gasoline filling station,
gasoline bulk station or any building in which gasoline or volatile liquids are
sold in quantities in excess of one gallon, except in stores where cleaners,
paints and oils are handled in sealed containers only.
§ 7-414 AUTHORITY OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Fire Department is authorized to seize and confiscate all
fireworks that may be kept, stored or used in violation of any section of this
article, and all of the rules of the state’s Fire Marshal. He or she shall
dispose of all such fireworks as may be directed by the governing body.
§ 7-415 BANNING FIREWORKS.
   The Mayor, in consultation with the Fire Chief, shall have the authority and
discretion to ban the discharge of all fireworks within the corporate limits of
the city if the weather conditions make discharge of fireworks in the city
hazardous to persons or property.
CHAPTER VIII: HEALTH AND WELFARE
   Article
      
1.   HEALTH NUISANCES
      
2.   ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
      
3.   WEEDS
      
4.   FAIR HOUSING
      
4A.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
5.   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
      
6.   INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
      
7.   RODENT CONTROL
      
8.   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
ARTICLE 1: HEALTH NUISANCES
Section
   
8-101   Nuisances unlawful; defined
   
8-102   Public officer
   
8-103   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-104   Right of entry
   
8-105   Notice of violation
   
8-106   Same; contents
   
8-107   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-108   Abatement
   
8-109   Hearing
   
8-110   Costs assessed
§ 8-101 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any nuisance
within the city as defined, without limitation, as follows:
   (a)   Filth, excrement, lumber, rocks, dirt, cans, paper, trash, metal or
any other offensive or disagreeable thing or substance thrown or left or
deposited upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park, public or private
enclosure or lot whether vacant or occupied;
   (b)   All dead animals not removed within 24 hours after death;
   (c)   Any place or structure or substance that emits or causes any
offensive, disagreeable or nauseous odors;
   (d)   All stagnant ponds or pools of water;
   (e)   All grass or weeds or other unsightly vegetation not usually
cultivated or grown for domestic use or to be marketed or for ornamental
purposes;
   (f)   Abandoned iceboxes or refrigerators kept on the premises under the
control of any person, or deposited on the sanitary landfill, or any icebox or
refrigerator not in actual use unless the door, opening or lid thereof is
unhinged or unfastened and removed therefrom;
   (g)   All articles or things whatsoever caused, kept, maintained or
permitted by any person to the injury, annoyance or inconvenience of the public
or of any neighborhood; and
   (h)   Any fence, structure, thing or substance placed upon or being upon any
street, sidewalk, alley or public ground so as to obstruct the same, except as
permitted by the laws of the city.
(K.S.A. 21-6204)
§ 8-102 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The Council shall designate a public officer to be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-103 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located, or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Department of Health and Welfare,
County Sheriff or the Fire Chief. The public officer may make such inquiry and
inspection when he or she observes conditions that appear to constitute a
nuisance. Upon making any inquiry and inspection, the public officer shall make
a written report of findings.
§ 8-104 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer has the right of access and entry upon private property
at any reasonable time to the extent allowed by law for the purpose of making
inquiry and inspection to determine if a nuisance exists.
§ 8-105 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-101 of this article an order stating the violation. The order shall be served
on the owner or agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or by personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner
is a non-resident, then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a non-resident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail.
(Ord. 1299, passed 8-18-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1617e
§ 8-106 SAME; CONTENTS.
   (a)   The order shall state the condition(s) that is (are) in violation of §
8-101 of this article. The order shall also inform the person, corporation,
partnership or association that:
      (1)   He, she or they shall have ten days from the receipt of the order
to abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-101 of this article; provided, however, that, the governing body shall grant
one or more extensions of the ten-day period if the owner or agent of the
property demonstrates that due diligence is being exercised in the abatement of
the conditions in violation of §
8-101 of this article; or
      (2)   He, she or they have ten days from the receipt of the order, plus
any additional time granted under division (a)(1) above, to request a hearing
before the governing body or its designated representative of the matter as
provided by §
8-109 of this article.
   (b)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-107 of this article and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as
provided by §
8-108 of this article.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-107 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   (a)   Should the person, corporation, partnership or association fail to
comply with the notice to abate the nuisance or request a hearing, the public
officer may file a complaint in the Municipal Court of the city against such
person, corporation, partnership or association and, upon a first conviction of
any violation of the provisions of §
8-101 of this article, be fined in an amount of not less than $200 and or be
imprisoned not to exceed 30 days, or be both fined and imprisoned. Upon a
second conviction of any violation of the provisions of §
8-101 of this article, be fined in an amount of not less than $300 and or be
imprisoned not less than two days not to exceed 30 days, or be both fined and
imprisoned. Upon a third or subsequent conviction of any violation of the
provisions of §
8-101 of this article, be fined in an amount of not less than $400 and or be
imprisoned not less than five days not to exceed 30 days, or be both fined and
imprisoned.
   (b)   Each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues after
notice has been served shall constitute an additional or separate offense.
(Ord. 1321, passed 3-6-2006)
§ 8-108 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-107 of this article, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this
article in the following manner. If a person to whom an order has been served
pursuant to §
8-105 of this article has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged
violation nor requested a hearing before the governing body within the time
periods specified in §
8-106 of this article, the public officer may present a resolution to the
governing body for adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of
the city to abate the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days
after passage of the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the
costs incurred by the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground
on which the nuisance was located as provided in §
8-110 of this article.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (c)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a non-resident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-109 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-106 of this article, such request shall be made in writing to the governing
body. Failure to make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver
of the person’s right to contest the findings of the public officer. The
hearing shall be held by the governing body or its designated representative as
soon as possible after the filing of the request therefore, and the person
shall be advised by the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five
days in advance thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by
counsel, and the person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence
as is deemed necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated
representative. The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules
of evidence. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body
or its designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted
by the governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in
the manner provided in §
8-108 of this article.
§ 8-110 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to § 8-108 of this
article, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or
removal incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is
due within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover
the cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section.
The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or abatement is not
paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or removal shall be
collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, or
shall be assessed as special assessments and charged against the lot or parcel
of land on which the nuisance was located; and the City Clerk, at the time of
certifying other city taxes, shall certify the unpaid portion of the costs; and
the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax rolls of the county against
such lot or parcel of land; and it shall be collected by the County Treasurer
and paid to the city as other city taxes are collected and paid. The city may
pursue collection both by levying a special assessment and in the manner
provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments thereto, but only until the full
cost and applicable interest has been paid in full.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
ARTICLE 2: ENVIRONMENTAL CODE
Section
   
8-201   Title
   
8-202   Legislative finding of fact
   
8-203   Purpose
   
8-204   Rules of construction
   
8-205   Definitions
   
8-206   Public officer
   
8-207   Enforcement standards
   
8-208   Unlawful acts
   
8-209   Order of violation
   
8-210   Penalty
   
8-211   Abatement
   
8-212   Hearing
   
8-213   Appeals
   
8-214   Costs assessed
   
8-215   Construction
§ 8-201 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Environmental Code”.
§ 8-202 LEGISLATIVE FINDING OF FACT.
   The governing body has found that there exists within the city unsightly and
hazardous conditions due to: dilapidation, deterioration or disrepair of walls,
siding, fences or structure exteriors; accumulations increasing the hazards of
accidents or other calamities; structural defects; uncleanliness; unsightly
stored or parked material, equipment, supplies, machinery, vehicles or parts
thereof. Such conditions are inimical to the general welfare of the community
in that they have a blighting influence on the adjoining properties, the
neighborhood and the city, or are injurious to the health and safety of the
residents of the city. The governing body desires to promote the public health,
safety and welfare by the repair, removal, abatement and regulation of such
conditions in the manner hereafter provided.
§ 8-203 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to protect, preserve, upgrade and regulate
the environmental quality of industrial, commercial and residential
neighborhoods in this city, by outlawing conditions which are injurious to the
health, safety, welfare or aesthetic characteristics of the neighborhoods and
to provide for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-204 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following rules of construction shall
apply.
   (a)   Any part thereof. Whenever the words premises, structure, building or
yard are used, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the
words “or any part thereof”.
   (b)   Gender. Words of gender shall be construed to mean neuter, feminine or
masculine, as may be applicable.
   (c)   Number. Words of number shall be construed to mean singular or plural,
as may be applicable.
   (d)   Tense. Words of tense shall be construed to mean present or future, as
may be applicable.
   (e)   Shall. The word shall is mandatory and not permissive.
§ 8-205 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that is not currently registered
or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149 inclusive, as amended; or parked in
violation of the ordinance; or incapable of moving under its own power; or in a
junked or wrecked condition.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A secondary structure detached from the principal
structure but on the same premises, including, but not limited to, garages,
sheds, barns or outbuildings.
   COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for other
than residential purposes.
   DILAPIDATION, DETERIORATION or DISREPAIR. Any condition characterized by,
but not limited to, holes, breaks, rot, decay, crumbling, cracking, peeling or
flaking paint, rusting or other evidence of physical damage, neglect, lack of
maintenance, excessive use or weathering.
   EXTERIOR. Those parts of a structure that are exposed to the weather or
subject to contact with the elements; including, but not limited to, sidings,
facings, veneers, masonry, roofs, foundations, porches, screens, shutters,
windows, doors or signs.
   GARBAGE. Without limitation, any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable
waste matter that results from the handling, preparation, cooking, serving,
delivering, storage or use of foodstuffs.
   PERSON. Any individual, individuals, corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association, other business organization, committee, board,
trustee, receiver, agent or other representative who has charge, care, control
or responsibility for maintenance of any premises, regardless of status as
owner, renter, tenant or lessee, whether or not in possession.
   PREMISES. Any lot, plot or parcel of land including the structures thereon.
PREMISES shall also mean any lot, plot or parcel of land without any structures
thereon.
   REFUSE. Garbage and trash.
   RESIDENTIAL. Used or intended to be used primarily for human habitation.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground, including
any appurtenances belonging thereto.
   TRASH. Combustible waste consisting of, but not limited to, papers, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, furniture, bedding, rags, leaves, yard
trimmings or tree branches and non-combustible waste consisting of, but not
limited to, metal, tin, cans, glass, crockery, plastics, mineral matter, ashes,
clinkers, or street rubbish and sweepings.
   WEATHERED. Deterioration caused by exposure to the elements.
   YARD. The area of the premises not occupied by any structure.
§ 8-206 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The Council shall designate a public officer to be charged with the
administration and enforcement of this article.
§ 8-207 ENFORCEMENT STANDARDS.
   No person shall be found in violation of this article unless the public
officer, after a reasonable inquiry and inspection of the premises, believes
that conditions exist of a quality and appearance not commensurate with the
character of the neighborhood. Such belief must be supported by evidence of a
level of maintenance significantly below that of the rest of the neighborhood.
Such evidence shall include conditions declared unlawful under §
8-208 of this article, but shall not include conditions that are not readily
visible from any public place or from any surrounding private property.
§ 8-208 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to exist on any
residential, commercial or industrial premises, conditions that are injurious
to the health, safety or general welfare of the residents of the community or
conditions that are detrimental to adjoining property, the neighborhood or the
city.
   (b)   For the purpose of fair and efficient enforcement and administration,
such unlawful conditions shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   Exterior conditions (yard) shall include, but not be limited to,
the scattering over or the parking, leaving, depositing or accumulation on the
yard of any of the following:
         (A)   Lumber, wire, metal, tires, concrete, masonry products, plastic
products, supplies, equipment, machinery, auto parts, junk or refuse;
         (B)   Abandoned motor vehicles;
         (C)   Furniture, stoves, refrigerators, televisions, sinks, bicycles,
lawn mowers or other such items of personal property; or
         (D)   Nauseous substances, carcasses of dead animals or places where
animals are kept in an offensive manner.
      (2)   Exterior conditions (structure) shall include, but not be limited
to, deteriorated, dilapidated or unsightly:
         (A)   Exteriors of any structure;
         (B)   Exteriors of any accessory structure; or
         (C)   Fences, walls or retaining walls.
§ 8-209 ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-208 of this article an order stating the violation. The order shall be served
on the owner or agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or by personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner
is a non-resident, then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a non-resident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail. The order shall
state:
      (1)   The condition that has caused the violation of this article; and
      (2)   That the person in violation shall have:
         (A)   Ten days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the exterior
conditions (yard) violation; and/or
         (B)   Forty-five days from the receipt of the order to alleviate the
exterior conditions (structure) violation; or
         (C)   Ten days from the receipt of the order, plus any additional time
granted under subsection (c) of this section, to request, as provided in §
8-212 of this article, a hearing before the governing body or its designated
representative on the matter.
   (c)   Provided, however, that the governing body shall grant one or more
extensions to the time periods stated in divisions (b)(2)(A) and (b)(2)(B)
above, if the owner or agent of the property demonstrates that due diligence is
being exercised in the abatement of the conditions that have caused the
violation of this article; and
   (d)   That failure to alleviate the condition or to request a hearing may
result in prosecution under §
8-210 of this article and/or abatement of the condition by the city according
to §
8-211 of this article with the costs assessed against the property under §
8-214 of this article.
(K.S.A. 12-1617e)
§ 8-210 PENALTY.
   The public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal Court against any
person found to be in violation of §
8-208 of this article; provided, however, that, such person shall first have
been sent an order of violation as provided in §
8-209 of this article and that the person has neither alleviated the conditions
causing the alleged violation nor requested a hearing before the governing body
within the time periods specified in §
8-209 of this article. Upon such complaint in the Municipal Court, any person
found to be in violation of §
8-208 of this article shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not less
than $50, nor more than $100, or by imprisonment, for not more than 30 days, or
by both such fine and imprisonment, for each offense. For the purposes of this
article, a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which such violation is permitted to exist.
§ 8-211 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-210 of this article, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this
article in the following manner. If a person to whom an order has been served
pursuant to §
8-209 of this article has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged
violation nor requested a hearing before the governing body within the time
periods specified in §
8-209 of this article, the public officer may present a resolution to the
governing body for adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of
the city to abate the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days
after passage of the resolution. The resolution shall further provide that the
costs incurred by the city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground
on which the nuisance was located as provided in §
8-214 of this article.
   (b)   A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person in violation
in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation;
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (3)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the
same cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an
affidavit to that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the
City Clerk, and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper
and by posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition
exists.
   (c)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first-class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a non-resident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first-class mail.
§ 8-212 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-209 of this article, such request shall be made in writing to the governing
body. Failure to make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver
of the person’s right to contest the findings of the public officer. The
hearing shall be held by the governing body or its designated representative as
soon as possible after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall
be advised by the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days
in advance thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by
counsel, and the person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence
as is deemed necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated
representative. The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules
of evidence. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body
or its designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted
by the governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in
the manner provided in §
8-211 of this article.
§ 8-213 APPEALS.
   Any person affected by any determination of the governing body under §§
8-211 and
8-212 of this article may appeal such determination in the manner provided by
K.S.A. 60-2101.
§ 8-214 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-211 of this article, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her
agent by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the
abatement or removal incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the
payment is due within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also
may recover the cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by
this section. The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or
abatement is not paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or
removal shall be collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and
amendments thereto, or shall be assessed as special assessments and charged
against the lot or parcel of land on which the nuisance was located and the
City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify the
unpaid portion of the costs and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the
tax rolls of the county against such lot or parcel of land and it shall be
collected by the County Treasurer and paid to the city as other city taxes are
collected and paid. The city may pursue collection both by levying a special
assessment and in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments
thereto, but only until the full cost and applicable interest has been paid in
full.
§ 8-215 CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its
laws nor to prevent or punish violations thereof. The powers conferred by this
article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by the
State Constitution, by any other law or by ordinance.
ARTICLE 3: WEEDS
Section
   
8-301   Weeds to be removed
   
8-302   Definitions
   
8-303   Public officer; notice to remove
   
8-304   Abatement; assessment of costs
   
8-305   Right of entry
   
8-306   Unlawful interference
   
8-307   Noxious weeds
§ 8-301 WEEDS TO BE REMOVED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, lessee, tenant or other person
occupying or having charge or control of any premises to permit weeds to remain
upon said premises or any area between the property lines of said premises and
the centerline of any adjacent street or alley, including, but not specifically
limited to, sidewalks, streets, alleys, easements, rights-of-way and all other
areas, public or private. All weeds as hereinafter defined are hereby declared
a nuisance and are subject to abatement, as hereinafter provided.
§ 8-302 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. As used herein, means any of the following:
      (1)   Brush and woody vines shall be classified as weeds;
      (2)   Weeds and grasses that may attain such large growth as to become,
when dry, a fire menace to adjacent improved property;
      (3)   Weeds that bear or may bear seeds of a downy or wingy nature;
      (4)   Weeds that are located in an area that harbors rats, insects,
animals, reptiles or any other creature that either may or does constitute a
menace to health, public safety or welfare; and
      (5)   Weeds and grasses on or about residential property that, because of
its height, has a blighting influence on the neighborhood. Any such weeds and
indigenous grasses shall be presumed to be blighting if they exceed 12 inches
in height.
§ 8-303 PUBLIC OFFICER; NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (a)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, shall designate a
public officer to be charged with the administration and enforcement of this
article. The public officer or authorized assistant shall give written notice
to the owner, occupant or agent of such property by certified mail, return
receipt requested or by personal service to cut or destroy weeds; provided,
however, that if the property is unoccupied and the owner is a non-resident,
such notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner. Such notice shall be given only once per
calendar year.
   (b)   The notice to be given hereunder shall state:
      (1)   That the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property is in
violation of the city weed control law;
      (2)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property is
ordered to cut or destroy the weeds within ten days of the receipt of the
notice;
      (3)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property may
request a hearing before the governing body or its designated representative
within five days of the receipt of the notice or, if the owner is unknown or a
non-resident, and there is no resident agent, ten days after notice has been
published by the City Clerk in the official city newspaper;
      (4)   That if the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property
does not cut or destroy the weeds or fails to request a hearing within the
allowed time, the city or its authorized agent will cut or destroy the weeds
and assess the cost of the cutting or destroying the weeds, including a
reasonable administrative fee, against the owner, occupant or agent in charge
of the property;
      (5)   That the owner, occupant or agent in control of the property will
be given an opportunity to pay the assessment, and if it is not paid within 30
days of such notice, it will be added to the property tax as a special
assessment;
      (6)   That no further notice will be given during the current calendar
year prior to the removal of weeds from the property; and
      (7)   That the public officer should be contacted if there are questions
regarding the order.
   (c)   If there is a change in the record owner of title to property
subsequent to the giving of notice pursuant to this section, the city may not
recover any costs or levy an assessment for the costs incurred by the cutting
or destruction of weeds on such property unless the new record owner of title
to such property is provided notice as required by this article.
(Ord. 1299, passed 8-18-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1617f
§ 8-304 ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (a)   If the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the property has neither
alleviated the conditions causing the alleged violation nor requested a hearing
within the time periods specified in § 8-303 of this article, the public
officer or an authorized assistant shall abate or remove the conditions causing
the violation.
   (b)   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to this section,
the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her agent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of the total cost of the abatement or removal
incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the payment is due
within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also may recover the
cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by this section.
   (c)   The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or
abatement is not paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or
removal shall be collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and
amendments thereto, or shall be assessed as special assessments and charged
against the lot or parcel of land on which the nuisance was located and the
City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify the
unpaid portion of the costs and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the
tax rolls of the county against such lot or parcel of land and it shall be
collected by the County Treasurer and paid to the city as other city taxes are
collected and paid. The city may pursue collection both by levying a special
assessment and in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and amendments
thereto, but only until the full cost and applicable interest has been paid in
full.
(K.S.A. 12-1617f)
§ 8-305 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer and the public officer’s authorized assistants,
employees, contracting agents or other representatives are hereby expressly
authorized to enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of cutting, destroying and/or removing such weeds in a manner not
inconsistent with this article.
§ 8-306 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or to attempt to
prevent the public officer or the public officer’s authorized representative
from entering upon any such lot or piece of ground or from proceeding with such
cutting and destruction. Such interference shall constitute a code violation.
§ 8-307 NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall affect or impair the rights of the city
under the provisions of K.S.A. Chapter 2, Article 13, relating to the control
and eradication of certain noxious weeds.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, the term NOXIOUS WEEDS shall mean
hoary cress (Lepidium draba), leafy spurge (Euphorbia virgata), quackgrass
(Elymus repens), Russian knapweed (Rhaponticum repens), kudzu (Pueraria montana
variety lobata), pignut (Hofmannseggia glauca), Canada thistle (Cirsium
arvense), field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), musk thistle (Carduus nutans),
sericea lespedeza (Lespedeza cuneata), Johnsongrass (Sorghum halepense), and
bur ragweed (Ambrosia grayii).
(K.S.A. 2-1314, K.A.R. 4-8-44)
ARTICLE 4: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
8-401   Policy
   
8-402   Fair Housing Committee
   
8-403   Definitions
   
8-404   Effective dates of certain prohibitions
   
8-405   Exceptions
   
8-406   In the business of selling or renting dwellings
   
8-407   Discrimination; sale or rental of housing
   
8-408   Same; financing of housing
   
8-409   Same; brokerage services
   
8-410   Exemption
   
8-411   Intimidation
   
8-412   Procedure; complaint
   
8-413   Same; investigation
   
8-414   Same; referral by Chairperson
   
8-415   Same; hearing
   
8-416   Same; attempt conciliation
   
8-417   Same; hearings private
   
8-418   Same; record of proceedings
   
8-419   Referral to Legal Department
   
8-420   City Legal Department shall prosecute violations
   
8-421   False statements
   
8-422   Penalty
§ 8-401 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing within the city.
§ 8-402 FAIR HOUSING COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby established a Fair Housing Committee of five members to be
appointed by the mayor, by and with the consent of the Council. The Mayor, by
and with the consent of the Council, shall designate one member as Chairperson
and another member as Vice Chairperson.
§ 8-403 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the Fair Housing Committee or, in the event
of his or her absence from the city, the Vice Chairperson of the Committee.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under this article.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as
or designed or intended for occupancy, as a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereof of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person who for a fee or other valuable
consideration, sells, purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates or offers or
attempts to negotiate the sale, purchase, exchange or rental of real property
of another or holds himself or herself out as engaged in the business of
selling, purchasing, exchanging or renting the real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of the real property of another.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
§ 8-404 EFFECTIVE DATES OF CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS.
   Subject to the provisions of division (b) and §
8-410 of this article, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in §
8-407 of this article, shall apply to:
   (a)   Dwellings owned or operated by the federal government;
   (b)   Dwellings provided in whole or in part with the aid of loans,
advances, grants or contributions made by the federal government, under
agreements entered into after 11-20-1962, unless payment due thereon has been
made in full;
   (c)   Dwellings provided in whole or in part by loans insured, guaranteed or
otherwise secured by the credit of the federal government, under agreements
entered into after 11-20-1962, unless payment thereon has been made in full.
Nothing contained in division (b) above and this division (c) shall be
applicable to dwellings solely by virtue of the fact that they are subject to
mortgages held by an F.D.I.C. or F.S.L.I.C. institutions; and
   (d)   Dwellings provided by the development redevelopment of real property
purchased, rented or otherwise obtained from a state or local public agency
receiving federal financial assistance for slum clearance or urban renewal with
respect to such property under loan or grant contracts entered into after 11-
20-1962.
§ 8-405 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in §
8-407 of this article other than division (c) below shall apply to:
   (a)   Any single family house sold or rented by an owner only if such house
is sold or rented:
      (1)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or
the use or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or
of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesperson; and
      (2)   Without the publication, posting or mailing after notice, of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
8-407(c) of this article. Nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and any other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
   (b)   Rooms or units in dwelling containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
§ 8-406 IN THE BUSINESS OF SELLING OR RENTING DWELLINGS.
   For the purpose of §
8-405, a person shall be deemed to be IN THE BUSINESS OF SELLING OR RENTING
DWELLINGS if:
   (a)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
   (b)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more transactions
involving the sale, or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
   (c)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
§ 8-407 DISCRIMINATION; SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
8-406 of this article and except as exempted by §§
8-405 and
8-410 of this article, it shall be unlawful:
   (a)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion or national
origin;
   (b)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (c)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental, when such dwelling is, in fact, so available; and
   (d)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion
or national origin.
§ 8-408 SAME; FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, savings and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise, whose business
consists in whole or in part in making of commercial real estate loans, to deny
a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor, for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
financial assistance because of the race, color, religion or national origin of
such person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with such
loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other
financial assistance or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given; provided, that nothing
contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the
exception contained in §
8-405 of this article.
§ 8-409 SAME; BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple- listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on
account of race, color, religion or national origin.
§ 8-410 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this article shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society, or any non- profit institution, or organization, operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings
which it owns or operates for other than a non-commercial purpose to persons of
the same religion or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership
in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin;
nor shall anything in this article prohibit a private club not, in fact, open
to the public which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
§ 8-411 INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether or not acting under color of
law, by force or threat of force, to willfully injure, intimidate or interfere
with, coerce or threaten or attempt to intimidate or interfere with, coerce or
threaten:
   (a)   Any person because of race, color, religion or national origin and
because he or she is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing,
occupying or contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental,
financing or occupation of any dwelling or applying for or participating in any
service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings;
   (b)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to prevent
such person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color or
religion or national origin in any of the activities, services, organizations
or facilities described in division (a) above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (c)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to discourage
such citizen, or any citizen, from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion or
national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations or
facilities described in division (a) above or participating lawfully in speech
or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of opportunity to so participate.
§ 8-412 PROCEDURE; COMPLAINT.
   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by a violation of this article may, on a
standardized form, file with the City Clerk a written, verified complaint,
identifying the person alleged to have committed the violation and setting
forth the particulars thereof. The City Clerk is hereby directed to adopt and
furnish, without charge, official complaint forms and is empowered to
administer oaths to complainants. He or she and his or her staff may assist in
the clerical preparation of such complaints. Such complaints shall be filed
within 180 days after the date on which the violation allegedly occurred.
§ 8-413 SAME; INVESTIGATION.
   Upon the filing of a complaint, as herewith provided, the City Clerk shall
refer said complaint to the then designated Chairperson of the Fair Housing
Committee or, in his or her absence from the city, the Vice Chairperson of the
Committee. The Chairperson shall cause an immediate investigation of the matter
stated in the complaint and shall attempt to effect an adjustment or
conciliation by conference and negotiation.
§ 8-414 SAME; REFERRAL BY CHAIRPERSON.
   After the investigation and attempted adjustment or conciliation by the
Chairperson or Vice Chairperson and 30 days after the filing of the complaint,
if in the judgment of the Chairperson the complaint is substantial and the
adjustment or conciliation has not occurred, the Chairperson shall refer the
complaint, together with a full report of his or her activities in connection
therewith, to the Fair Housing Committee. If the Chairperson finds the
complaint is frivolous or not in good faith, he or she shall submit his or her
findings, together with all the evidence he or she has gathered, to the Fair
Housing Committee, who may adopt said finding as a final disposition of said
complaint, or upon motion of two members of the Fair Housing Committee act upon
said finding in the same manner as if the Chairperson had found the complaint
to be substantial and adjustment or conciliation had not occurred.
§ 8-415 SAME; HEARING.
   Upon reference of a complaint from the Chairperson, the Fair Housing
Committee shall promptly set a date for hearing of the matters alleged in such
complaint and subsequent occurring related matters. Such hearing shall occur in
the city hall not more than 30 days after the date on which the chairperson
shall have so referred such complaint, but only after giving at least five days
prior written notice to the complainant and to the person alleged to have
committed the violation. For the purposes of such hearing, the Fair Housing
Committee shall have the power to administer oaths and at the request of the
complainant or the person alleged to have committed the violation, or upon its
own motion to issue process and to compel the attendance of any person or
witness, together with books, papers and other documents; such process shall be
executed by the County Sheriff and shall be enforced as in all cases of city
code violations. Such hearings shall be conducted in a fair and impartial
manner according to rules adopted by the Fair Housing Committee. The proof of
the matters contained within the complaint may be presented by a member of the
Legal Department at the hearing upon request of the Fair Housing Committee. The
complainant and the person alleged to have committed the violation may appear
with legal counsel and shall have the right to present proof and cross-examine
witnesses in all matters relating to the complaint and subsequent related
occurrences.
§ 8-416 SAME; ATTEMPT CONCILIATION.
   After such hearing, if a majority of the Fair Housing Committee shall be
convinced by the evidence upon the hearing that the complaint is well founded,
the Fair Housing Committee shall forthwith by persuasion, education and
entreaty diligently attempt to secure within a reasonable time, voluntary
discontinuance of the violation complained of.
§ 8-417 SAME; HEARINGS PRIVATE.
   The Fair Housing Committee shall conduct the hearing and adjustment or
conciliation discussions in private. Nothing said or done in the course of such
endeavors shall be made public without the written consent of the persons
concerned.
§ 8-418 SAME; RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
   If the complainant or the person alleged to have committed the violation
requests and posts reasonable security for the costs thereof, the Fair Housing
Committee shall secure the attendance of a certified shorthand reporter for the
purpose of recording the proceedings at the hearing.
§ 8-419 REFERRAL TO LEGAL DEPARTMENT.
   The Fair Housing Committee, in the event of failure to secure voluntary
compliance with the requirements of this article may direct the Chairperson
thereof to certify in writing to the Legal Department that all reasonable
efforts of the Committee to secure conciliation are concluded in the matter and
the Committee shall, with such certification, transmit the Committee file, the
transcript of the hearing, if any, and in all other respects cooperate with the
Legal Department.
§ 8-420 CITY LEGAL DEPARTMENT SHALL PROSECUTE VIOLATIONS.
   Upon certification by the Fair Housing Committee, the Legal Department shall
initiate a charge in the Municipal Court against the alleged violator and
prosecute the same to final conclusion. No prosecution shall be brought under
§§
8-403,
8-404,
8-405,
8-407,
8-408 and
8-409 of this article, except upon certification to the city’s Legal
Department, as provided for in §
8-419 of this article.
§ 8-421 FALSE STATEMENTS.
   Any person making false, malicious or unfounded accusations against any
person or persons complained of shall be guilty of a code violation.
§ 8-422 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article or who
shall willfully disobey or interfere with the processes of the Fair Housing
Committee without lawful justification therefor shall be guilty of a code
violation.
ARTICLE 4A: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
8-4A01   Title
   
8-4A02   General
   
8-4A03   Declaration of policy
   
8-4A04   Definitions
   
8-4A05   Duty of occupant or owner of occupied or unoccupied building and its
premises or vacant premises
   
8-4A06   Regulations for the use and occupancy of dwellings
   
8-4A07   Maintenance and repair; dwellings
   
8-4A08   Designation of unfit dwellings
   
8-4A09   Designation of blighted premises (residential and non-residential)
   
8-4A10   Designation of blighted buildings and premises (non-residential)
   
8-4A11   Inspection of buildings, structures and premises
   
8-4A12   Notice of violations; procedures
   
8-4A13   Public officer; authority
   
8-4A14   Governing body; authority
   
8-4A15   Order to correct and/or repair, remove or demolish
   
8-4A16   Demolition by public officer; procedure and costs
   
8-4A17   Conflict of laws; effect or partial invalidity
   
8-4A18   Governing body; appeals
   
8-4A19   Right of petition
§ 8-4A01 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Minimum Standard for Housing and
Premises Code”, and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
§ 8-4A02 GENERAL.
   Buildings used in whole or in part as a home or residence of a single family
or person and every building used in whole or in part as a home or residence of
two or more persons or families living in separate apartments and all premises,
either residential or non-residential, shall conform to the requirements of
this code.
§ 8-4A03 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The governing body declares the purpose of this code is to protect, preserve
and promote the physical and mental health of the people; investigate and
control communicable diseases; regulate privately- and publicly-owned
structures or dwellings and all premises for the purpose of sanitation, public
health and general appearance; protect the safety of the people; and promote
the general welfare by legislation that shall be applicable to all dwellings,
structures and premises now in existence or hereafter constructed or developed
and which legislation:
   (a)   Establishes minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities for
light, ventilation and heating, for safety from fire, for the use and location
and amount of space for human occupancy and for safe and sanitary maintenance;
   (b)   Establishes standards concerning unsightly and blighted buildings and
premises, both residential and non-residential structures;
   (c)   Determines the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants;
and
   (d)   Provides for the administration and enforcement thereof.
§ 8-4A04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
following definitions shall apply to the enforcement of this code.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partially underground, but having
less than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partially or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   DWELLING. Any building that is wholly or partially used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that, temporary
housing hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used, or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   HABITABLE DWELLING. Any structure or part thereof that shall be used as a
home or place of abode by one or more persons.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room designed to be used for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking purposes, excluding bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls and storage
places or other similar places, not used by persons for extended periods.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of insects, rodents
or other pests.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, owns or has control of a premises
or of a building or structure or part thereof, in which dwelling units or
rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation, who jointly or severally along with
others, shall be in actual possession of, or have charge, care and control of
any structure or dwelling unit or premises within the city as owner, employee
or agent of the owner, or as trustee or guardian of the estate or person of the
title holder, and such person shall be deemed and taken to be the owner or
owner of such property within the true intent and meaning of this code and
shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this article to the same extent
as the record owner and notice to any such person shall be deemed and taken to
be a good and sufficient notice as if such person or persons were actually the
record owner or owner of such property.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas or fuel pipes; gas or fuel burning equipment; water pipes; garbage disposal
units; waste pipes; water closets; sinks; installed dishwashers; lavatories;
bathtubs; shower baths; installed clothes-washing machines; catch basins;
drains; vents; and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer, gas or fuel lines.
   PREMISES. Any lot or land area, either residential or non-residential, not
covered by a structure and which is subject to a city tax in part or in whole.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The Health Officer designated by the governing body.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of a dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   REFUSE. For the purpose of this article, REFUSE shall include garbage and
trash.
      (1)   GARBAGE. Any accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable waste
matter that attends the preparation of, use of, cooking of, delivering of, or
storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable.
      (2)   TRASH (COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, COMBUSTIBLE
TRASH shall mean waste consisting of papers, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood and
excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding and leaves,
or any other combustible materials.
      (3)   TRASH (NON-COMBUSTIBLE). For the purpose of this article, NON-
COMBUSTIBLE TRASH shall mean waste consisting of metals, tin cans, glass,
crockery, other mineral refuse and ashes and street rubbish and sweepings,
dirt, sand, concrete scrap or any other non-combustible material.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
something having a location on the ground.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter that is designed to be transportable and that is not attached to the
ground, house or building or another structure, or to any utilities system on
the same premises for more than 30 consecutive days, except when located in a
mobile home court duly licensed under laws of the city.
   WORDS, MEANINGS. Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”, “rooming
house”, “rooming unit”, “premises” are used in this article, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
§ 8-4A05 DUTY OF OCCUPANT OR OWNER OF OCCUPIED OR UNOCCUPIED BUILDING AND ITS
PREMISES OR VACANT PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner of every occupied or unoccupied
dwelling, building and premises, or vacant premises, including all yards, lawns
and courts to keep such property clean and free from any accumulation of filth,
rubbish, garbage or any similar matter as covered by §§
8-4A08 and
8-4A09 of this article.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of each occupant of a dwelling unit to keep in
clean condition the portion of the property that he or she occupies and of
which he or she has exclusive control, to comply with the rules and
regulations, and to place all garbage and refuse in proper containers. Where
care of the premises is not the responsibility of the occupant, then the owner
is responsible for violations of this code applicable to the premises.
   (c)   If receptacles are not provided by the owner, then the occupant shall
provide receptacles as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single-dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the unit primarily infested.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
vermin-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner and operator.
   (f)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
§ 8-4A06 REGULATIONS FOR THE USE AND OCCUPANCY OF DWELLINGS.
   (a)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping,
cooking or eating therein, that does not comply with the following
requirements.
   (b)   The following requirements are hereby declared essential to the health
and safety of the occupants of such dwelling or dwelling unit.
      (1)   Attached garages or non-dwelling areas. All non-dwelling
occupancies shall be separated from the dwelling unit by a fire-resistant wall
and if the dwelling and garage are covered by a common or connecting roof, then
the ceiling also must have a fire resistance rating of not less than one hour
as defined in the Building Code.
      (2)   Basement or cellar. The basement or cellar of any dwelling shall be
reasonably dry and ventilated and shall be kept free from rubbish accumulation.
      (3)   Basement dwelling units. The use of basements or cellars for
dwelling units is prohibited unless they comply with division (b)(18) below
governing ventilation; provided, however, if occupied at the time of the
passage of this code and if it complies with all other provisions of this code,
the public officer may approve less than the required windows if, in his or her
opinion, the window area is not detrimental to the occupants.
      (4)   Bathing facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within a room
which affords privacy to a person in the room, a bathtub or shower in good
working condition and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
      (5)   Boarding and rooming houses. No room shall be used for sleeping
purposes unless the ceiling height is at least seven feet and there are at
least 400 cubic feet of air space for each occupant over six years of age. For
sleeping rooms with sloping ceilings, the ceiling height shall be at least
seven feet over at least 50% of the floor area.
         (A)   Bathing facilities shall be provided in the form of a tub or
shower for each eight occupants. Separate facilities shall be provided for each
sex and plainly marked.
         (B)   A flush water closet shall be provided for each six occupants
and shall be separated with the separate access from bathing facilities if more
than four occupants are served by each. Separate facilities shall be provided
for each sex and shall be plainly marked.
      (6)   Drainage. All courts, yards or other areas on the premises of any
dwelling shall be so graded and drained that there is no pooling of the water
thereon. Properly constructed wading and swimming pools and fish ponds are
excepted from this section.
      (7)   Entrances.
         (A)   There shall be for each dwelling unit a normally used separate
access either to a hallway, stairway or street that is safe and in good repair.
         (B)   A secondary exit to the ground shall be available in case of
fire through windows, porch roofs, ladders or any combination that is free of
hazard or egress.
      (8)   Floor area. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square
feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional
square feet of floor space for every additional occupant thereof. The floor
space shall be calculated on the basis of total habitable room area, inside
measurements. No floor space shall be included in determining habitable room
area over which the ceiling is less than seven feet above the floor for the
purpose of this division (b)(8).
      (9)   Garbage and trash receptacles. Every dwelling and every dwelling
unit shall be provided with such receptacles, not exceeding 32-gallon capacity,
as may be necessary to contain all garbage and trash and such receptacles shall
at all times be maintained in good repair.
      (10)   Heating. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit shall be so
constructed, insulated and maintained and be provided by owner or occupant with
heating units so that it is capable of reaching an air temperature of 70°F
under ordinary winter conditions. The chimney of the dwelling or dwelling unit
shall be maintained in good order and the owner of the approved heating
equipment shall maintain it in good order and repair.
      (11)   Kitchen sink. In every dwelling unit containing two or more rooms,
there shall be at least one kitchen sink with public water under pressure and
connected to the public sewer, or if that sewer system is not available, to a
sewage disposal system approved by the city’s Health Department.
      (12)   Lavatory facilities. Every dwelling unit shall contain within its
walls a lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and located in the same room as the required
flush water closet or as near to the room as practicable.
      (13)   Lighting. Every habitable room shall have a ceiling electric
outlet and a duplex outlet in wall or floor, or at least two wall or floor
outlets.
      (14)   Lighting of toilets and bathrooms. Every toilet and every bathroom
in every dwelling shall have at least one electric light in either the ceiling
or on the wall.
      (15)   Plumbing. All plumbing, water closets and other plumbing fixtures
in every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be maintained in good working order.
      (16)   Privies. All pit privies, privy vaults, “dry hopper” sewer-
connected privies and frost-proof closets are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
      (17)   Toilet facilities. There shall be at least one flush water closet
in good working condition for each dwelling unit, which flush water closet
shall be located within the dwelling and in a room that affords privacy.
      (18)   Ventilation. Every habitable room in a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall contain a window or windows openable directly to the outside air and the
total area of such window or windows shall be not less than 5% of the floor
area of such room. An approved system of mechanical ventilation or air
conditioning may be used in lieu of openable windows. Such system shall be
capable of providing not less than four air changes per hour; except that, in
toilet compartments such system shall provide a complete air change every five
minutes and be automatically put in operation when the toilet compartment light
is in the “on” position.
      (19)   Water heating facilities. Every dwelling shall have supplied water
heating facilities that are installed in an approved manner and are maintained
and operated in a safe and good working condition and are properly connected
with the hot water lines to the kitchen sink, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
      (20)   Windows and doors. Every window and exterior door shall be
reasonably weather-tight, lockable and rodent-proof and shall be kept in good
working condition and good repair.
§ 8-4A07 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR; DWELLINGS.
   (a)   Every dwelling and every part thereof shall be maintained in good
repair by the owner or agent and be fit for human habitation.
   (b)   The roof shall be maintained so as not to leak and all rainwater shall
be drained therefrom so as not to cause dampness in the walls or ceilings.
   (c)   All floors, stairways, doors, porches, windows, skylights, chimneys,
toilets, sinks, walls and ceilings shall be kept in good repair and usable
condition.
§ 8-4A08 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and placarding of such unfit dwellings or dwelling units shall be carried out
in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Existence of conditions. The public officer may determine, or five
citizens may petition in writing, that any dwelling unit is unfit for human use
or habitation if he, she or they find that conditions exist in such structure
that are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the
occupants of such buildings or other residents of the neighborhood, or which
shall have a blighting influence on properties in the area.
   (b)   Conditions generally. Such conditions may include the following
without limitation:
      (1)   Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other
calamities;
      (2)   Lack of:
         (A)   Adequate ventilation;
         (B)   Light;
         (C)   Cleanliness; and
         (D)   Sanitary facilities.
      (3)   Dilapidation;
      (4)   Disrepair;
      (5)   Structural defects;
      (6)   Overcrowding;
      (7)   Inadequate ingress and egress;
      (8)   Unsightly appearance that constitute a blight to the adjoining
property, the neighborhood or the city; and
      (9)   Air pollution.
   (c)   Placarding; order to vacate. Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned
as unfit for human habitation, and so designated and placarded by the public
officer, shall be vacated within a reasonable time as so ordered.
   (d)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-4A12 of this article are applicable hereto.
   (e)   Compliance required before re-occupancy. No dwelling or dwelling unit
that has been condemned and placarded as unfit for human habitation shall again
be used for human habitation until written approval is secured from, and such
placard is removed by the public officer.
      (1)   The public officer shall remove such placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to let, lease, occupy or permit the
occupancy, whether for a consideration or not, of any dwelling so posted and
any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within the
meaning of this code.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or remove the placard
from any dwelling or dwelling unit that has been condemned as unfit for human
habitation and placarded as such, except the public officer as herein provided,
and any violation of this provision shall constitute a public offense within
the meaning of this code.
§ 8-4A09 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED PREMISES (RESIDENTIAL AND NON- RESIDENTIAL).
   The designation of unsightly and blighted premises and elimination thereof
shall be carried out in compliance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Public officer determinations. The public officer may determine, or
five citizens may petition in writing, that if the appearance of a premises is
not commensurate with the character of the properties in the neighborhood or
otherwise constitutes a blight to the adjoining property or the neighborhood or
the city for such reasons as, but not limited to:
      (1)   Dead trees or other unsightly natural growth;
      (2)   Unsightly stored or parked material, equipment, supplies,
machinery, trucks or automobiles or parts thereof; vermin infestation,
inadequate drainage; and
      (3)   Violation of any other law or regulations relating to the use of
land and the use and occupancy of the buildings and improvements.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures as outlined in §
8-4A12 of this article are applicable hereto.
§ 8-4A10 DESIGNATION OF BLIGHTED BUILDINGS AND PREMISES (NON- RESIDENTIAL).
   (a)   Certain blighted conditions. Certain blighted conditions covered in §§
8-4A08 and
8-4A09 of this article concerning buildings and premises that are on the tax
roll of the city are applicable to all non- residential buildings and premises.
   (b)   Notice of violation. Procedures of notification shall follow those
prescribed in §
8-4A12  of this article.
§ 8-4A11 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND PREMISES.
   (a)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
code, the public officer or his or her authorized representative is hereby
authorized to make inspections to determine the condition, use and occupancy of
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and the premises upon which the same
are located. This requirement is applicable to existing dwellings or buildings.
   (b)   The public officer is not limited by the conditions in division (a)
above where new construction or vacant premises are involved and may make such
inspections at any appropriate time.
   (c)   The owner, operator and occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit and
rooming unit shall give the public officer, or his or her authorized
representative, during reasonable hours, free access to such dwelling, dwelling
unit and rooming unit, and its premises, for the purpose of such inspection,
examination and survey after identification by proper credentials.
   (d)   Every occupant of a dwelling shall give the owner thereof, or his or
her authorized agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling, or its
premises, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this
code or with any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated, or any order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this code.
§ 8-4A12 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Informal discussion. Whenever the public officer or his or her
authorized representative determines that there has been a violation of any
provision of this code, the public officer will arrange with the alleged
violator for an informal discussion of violations, and whether repair and
correction is justified.
   (b)   Formal hearing. If a satisfactory solution to the violations either by
correction, demolition or removal is not forthcoming, then a legal notice of a
formal hearing will be issued according to the following procedures:
      (1)   Shall be in writing;
      (2)   Shall list the violations alleged to exist or to have been
committed;
      (3)   Shall provide a reasonable time, but not less than 30 days in any
event for the correction of the violations particularized;
      (4)   Shall be addressed to and served upon the owner of the property,
the operator of the dwelling and the occupant of the dwelling unit or the
rooming unit concerned, if the occupant is or may be responsible for violation;
      (5)   If one or more persons whom the notice is addressed cannot be found
or served after diligent effort to do so, service may be made upon such person
or persons by posting a notice in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling
affected by the notice, in which event the public officer or his or her
authorized representative shall include in the record a statement as to why
such posting was necessary; and
      (6)   Delivery shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service. If service is made by certified mail, the public officer
or his or her authorized representative shall include in the record a verified
statement giving details regarding the mailing.
§ 8-4A13 PUBLIC OFFICER; AUTHORITY.
   For the purpose of protecting the city against unsightly or blighted
premises, also the health, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of dwellings
or dwelling units, the public officer referred heretofore is hereby authorized,
with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, to enforce
provisions of this code and of other laws that regulate or set standards
affecting buildings and premises.
§ 8-4A14 GOVERNING BODY; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body is hereby authorized:
   (a)   To informally review all alleged violations as provided in §
8-4A12(a) of this article prior to notification prescribed in §
8-4A12(b) of this article;
   (b)   To take action as prescribed in §
8-4A12(b) of this article;
   (c)   To hear appeals if there is opposition to any order, requirement,
decision or determination by the public officer in enforcement of this code as
outlined in §
8-4A18 of this article; and
   (d)   Discretionary authority may be exercised in specific cases where
variance from the terms of the code as:
      (1)   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare of
inhabitants of the city;
      (2)   Is in harmony with the spirit of this code; and
      (3)   Where literal enforcement of the code will result in unnecessary
hardship.
§ 8-4A15 ORDER TO CORRECT AND/OR REPAIR, REMOVE OR DEMOLISH.
   At the time of the placarding and order to vacate specified by §
8-4A08(c) of this article, the public officer shall also issue and cause to be
served upon the owner a notice advising of the option of removal or demolition
in lieu of correction and/or repair following the procedures as outlined in §
8-4A12 of this article.
§ 8-4A16 DEMOLITION BY PUBLIC OFFICER; PROCEDURE AND COSTS.
   (a)   Failure to comply with the order under §
8-4A15 of this article for the alteration or improvement of such structure, the
public officer, with the consent and prior knowledge of the governing body, may
cause such condemned structure to be removed or demolished and the premises
improved to eliminate the conditions outlined in §
8-4A09 of this article.
   (b)   The cost of demolition by a public officer shall be a lien upon the
property upon which the cost was incurred and such lien, including as a part
thereof an allowance of his or her costs and necessary attorney’s fees, may be
foreclosed in judicial proceedings in the manner provided or authorized by law
for loans secured by liens on real property or shall be assessed as a special
assessment upon the lot or parcel of land on which the structure was located
and the City Clerk at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify
the unpaid portion of the aforesaid costs and the County Clerk shall extend the
same on the tax rolls against the lot or parcel of land.
   (c)   If the structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, he or
she shall offer for bids and sell the structure or the materials of such
structure. The proceeds of such sale shall be credited against the cost of the
removal or demolition and, if there is any balance remaining, it shall be paid
to the parties entitled thereto after deduction of costs or judicial
proceedings, if any, including the necessary attorney’s fees incurred therein,
as determined by the court, if involved.
§ 8-4A17 CONFLICT OF LAWS; EFFECT OR PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   (a)   Conflicts between the provisions of this code and with a provision of
any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or code of the city,
existing on the effective date of this article, the provision shall prevail
that establishes the higher standard.
   (b)   Conflicts between this article with a provision of any other ordinance
or code of the city existing on the effective date of this article that
establishes a lower standard, the provisions of this article shall be deemed to
prevail and such other laws or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to the
extent that they may be found in conflict with this code.
§ 8-4A18 GOVERNING BODY; APPEALS.
   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation considering themselves aggrieved by
the decision of the public officer and who desires to present a formal protest
to the governing body shall in writing, request a hearing before the governing
body within ten days after receiving notice of the decision from the public
officer, as provided in §
8-4A12(b) of this article. Such protest and request for a hearing shall be
filed with the office of the City Clerk.
   (b)   Upon receipt of a protest and request for a hearing, the City Clerk
shall notify in writing the governing body of such appeal.
   (c)   The governing body shall, within 30 days of receipt of protest and
request for a hearing, determine a date for the hearing.
   (d)   Notice of the date for the hearing shall be sent to the appellant at
least ten days before the hearing.
   (e)   Except where an immediate hazard exists as described in § 4-612 of
this code of ordinances, the filing of a protest and request for a hearing
before the governing body as specified in division (a) above shall operate as a
stay of the enforcement of the public officer’s order until such time as the
governing body has reached a decision on the matter.
§ 8-4A19 RIGHT OF PETITION.
   After exhausting the remedy provided in §
8-4A18 of this article, any person aggrieved by an order issued by the public
officer and approved by the governing body after a hearing on the matter may,
within 30 days from the date that the order became final, petition the District
Court of the county in which the property is located to restrain the public
officer from carrying out the provisions of the order.
ARTICLE 5: JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
8-501   Findings of governing body
   
8-502   Definitions
   
8-503   Nuisances unlawful; defined; exceptions
   
8-504   Public officer
   
8-505   Complaints; inquiry and inspection
   
8-506   Right of entry
   
8-507   Notice of violation
   
8-508   Same; contents
   
8-509   Failure to comply; penalty
   
8-510   Abatement
   
8-511   Disposition of vehicle; recovery of vehicle
   
8-512   Hearing
   
8-513   Costs assessed
§ 8-501 FINDINGS OF GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body finds that junked, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative or
abandoned vehicles affect the health, safety and general welfare of citizens of
the city because they:
   (a)   Serves as a breeding ground for flies, mosquitoes, rats and other
insects and rodents;
   (b)   Are a danger to persons, particularly children, because of broken
glass, sharp metal protrusions, insecure mounting on blocks, jacks or other
supports;
   (c)   Are a ready source of fire and explosion;
   (d)   Encourage pilfering and theft;
   (e)   Constitute a blighting influence upon the area in which they are
located; and
   (f)   Constitute a fire hazard because they frequently block access for fire
equipment to adjacent buildings and structures.
(Ord. 1197, passed 8-20-1990)
§ 8-502 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE. A condition of being junked, wrecked, wholly or partially
dismantled, discarded, abandoned or unable to perform the function or purpose
for which it was originally constructed.
   VEHICLE. Without limitation, any automobile, truck, tractor or motorcycle
which as originally built contained an engine, regardless of whether it
contains an engine at any other time.
(Ord. 1197, passed 8-20-1990)
§ 8-503 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL; DEFINED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit any motor vehicle
nuisance within the city.
   (a)   A motor vehicle nuisance is any motor vehicle which is not currently
registered or tagged pursuant to K.S.A. 8-126 to 8-149 inclusive, as amended;
or parked in violation of city ordinance; or incapable of moving under its own
power; or in a junked, wrecked or inoperable condition. Any one of the
following conditions shall raise the presumption that a vehicle is junked,
wrecked or inoperable:
      (1)   Absence of a current registration plate upon the vehicle;
      (2)   Placement of the vehicle or parts thereof upon jacks, blocks or
other supports; and
      (3)   Absence of one or more parts of the vehicle necessary for the
lawful operation of the vehicle upon street or highway.
   (b)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle which is enclosed in a garage or other building;
      (2)   To the parking or storage of a vehicle inoperable for a period of
30 consecutive days or less; or
      (3)   To any person conducting a business enterprise in compliance with
existing zoning regulations or who places such vehicles behind screening of
sufficient size, strength and density to screen such vehicles from the view of
the public and to prohibit ready access to stored vehicles by children.
However, nothing in this division (b)(3) shall be construed to authorize the
maintenance of a public nuisance.
(Ord. 1197, passed 8-20-1990)
§ 8-504 PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The Mayor, with the consent of the governing body, shall designate a public
officer to be charged with the administration and enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 1197, passed 8-20-1990)
§ 8-505 COMPLAINTS; INQUIRY AND INSPECTION.
   The public officer shall make inquiry and inspection of premises upon
receiving a complaint or complaints in writing signed by two or more persons
stating that a nuisance exists and describing the same and where located or is
informed that a nuisance may exist by the Department of Health and Welfare,
County Sheriff or the Fire Chief. The public officer may make such inquiry and
inspection when he or she observes conditions which appear to constitute a
nuisance. Upon making any inquiry and inspection the public officer shall make
a written report of findings.
(Ord. 1197, passed 8-20-1990)
§ 8-506 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The public officer has the right of access and entry upon private property
at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inquiry and inspection to
determine if a nuisance exists.
(Ord. 1197, passed 8-20-1990)
§ 8-507 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   The governing body shall serve upon the owner, any agent of the owner
of the property or any other person, corporation, partnership or association
found by the public officer to be in violation of §
8-503 of this article an order stating the violation. The order shall be served
on the owner or agent of such property by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or by personal service. If the property is unoccupied and the owner
is a non-resident, then by mailing the order by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the owner.
   (b)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a non-resident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail.
(Ord. 1299, passed 8-18-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1617e
§ 8-508 SAME; CONTENTS.
   The notice shall state the condition(s) which is (are) in violation of §
8-503 of this article. The notice shall also inform the person, corporation,
partnership or association that:
   (a)   He, she or they shall have ten days from receipt of the notice to
abate the condition(s) in violation of §
8-503 of this article;
   (b)   He, she or they have ten days from receipt of the order to request a
hearing before the governing body or its designated representative of the
matter as provided by §
8-512 of this article; or
   (c)   Failure to abate the condition(s) or to request a hearing within the
time allowed may result in prosecution as provided by §
8-509 of this article and/or abatement of the condition(s) by the city as
provided by §
8-510 of this article.
(Ord. 1197, passed 8-20-1990)
§ 8-509 FAILURE TO COMPLY; PENALTY.
   Should the person fail to comply with the notice to abate the nuisance or
request a hearing, the public officer may file a complaint in the Municipal
Court of the city against such person and upon a first conviction of any
violation of the provisions of §
8-503 of this article, be fined in an amount of not less than $200 and or be
imprisoned not to exceed 30 days, or be both fined and imprisoned. Upon a
second conviction of any violation of the provisions of §
8-503 of this article, be fined in an amount of not less than $300 and or be
imprisoned not less than two days not to exceed 30 days, or be both fined and
imprisoned. Upon a third or subsequent conviction of any violation of the
provisions of §
8-503 of this article, be fined in an amount of not less than $400 and or be
imprisoned not less than five days not to exceed 30 days, or be both fined and
imprisoned. Each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues after
notice has been served shall constitute an additional or separate offense.
(Ord. 1320, passed 3-6-2006)
§ 8-510 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   In addition to, or as an alternative to prosecution as provided in §
8-509 in this article, the public officer may seek to remedy violations of this
article in the following manner. If a person to whom an order has been sent
pursuant to §
8-507 of this article has neither alleviated the conditions causing the alleged
violation or requested a hearing before the governing body within the time
period specified in §
8-508 of this article, the public officer may present a resolution to the
governing body for adoption authorizing the public officer or other agents of
the city to abate the conditions causing the violation at the end of ten days
after passage of the resolution.
   (b)   The resolution shall further provide that the costs incurred by the
city shall be charged against the lot or parcel of ground on which the nuisance
was located as provided in §
8-513 of this article. A copy of the resolution shall be served upon the person
in violation in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal service upon the person in violation; or
      (2)   Service by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (c)   In the event the whereabouts of such person are unknown and the same
cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, an affidavit to
that effect shall be made by the public officer and filed with the City Clerk,
and the serving of the resolution shall be made by publishing the same once
each week for two consecutive weeks in the official city newspaper and by
posting a copy of the resolution on the premises where such condition exists.
   (d)   If the owner or the agent of the owner of the property has failed to
accept delivery or otherwise failed to effectuate receipt of a notice or order
sent pursuant to this section during the preceding 24-month period, the
governing body of the city may provide notice of the issuance of any further
orders to abate or remove a nuisance from such property or provide notice of
the order by such methods including, but not limited to, door hangers,
conspicuously posting notice of such order on the property, personal
notification, telephone communication or first class mail. If the property is
unoccupied and the owner is a non-resident, notice provided by this section
shall be given by telephone communication or first class mail.
(Ord. 1197, passed 8-20-1990)
§ 8-511 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE; RECOVERY OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   Disposition of any motor vehicle removed and abated from private
property pursuant to this article shall be as provided by K.S.A. 8-1102, as
amended.
   (b)   Any person attempting to recover a motor vehicle impounded, as
provided in this article, shall show proof of valid registration and ownership
of the motor vehicle before the motor vehicle shall be released. In addition,
the person desiring the release of the motor vehicle shall pay all reasonable
costs associated with the impoundment of the motor vehicle, including
transportation and storage fees, prior to the release of the motor vehicle.
(Ord. 1197, passed 8-20-1990)
§ 8-512 HEARING.
   If a hearing is requested within the ten-day period as provided in §
8-508 of this article, such request shall be made in writing to the governing
body. Failure to make a timely request for a hearing shall constitute a waiver
of the person’s right to contest the findings of the public officer. The
hearing shall be held by the governing body or its designated representative as
soon as possible after the filing of the request therefor, and the person shall
be advised by the city of the time and place of the hearing at least five days
in advance thereof. At any such hearing, the person may be represented by
counsel, and the person and the city may introduce such witnesses and evidence
as is deemed necessary and proper by the governing body or its designated
representative. The hearing need not be conducted according to the formal rules
of evidence. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the findings of the governing body
or its designated representative shall be prepared in resolution form, adopted
by the governing body, and the resolution shall be served upon the person in
the matter provided in §
8-510 of this article.
(Ord. 1197, passed 8-20-1990)
§ 8-513 COSTS ASSESSED.
   If the city abates or removes the nuisance pursuant to §
8-510 of this article, the city shall give notice to the owner or his or her
agent by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the total cost of the
abatement or removal incurred by the city. The notice shall also state that the
payment is due within 30 days following receipt of the notice. The city also
may recover the cost of providing notice, including any postage, required by
this section. The notice shall also state that if the cost of the removal or
abatement is not paid within the 30-day period, the cost of the abatement or
removal shall be collected in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115, and
amendments thereto, or shall be assessed as special assessments and charged
against the lot or parcel of land on which the nuisance was located and the
City Clerk, at the time of certifying other city taxes, shall certify the
unpaid portion of the costs and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the
tax rolls of the county against such lot or parcel of land and it shall be
collected by the County Treasurer and paid to the city as other city taxes are
collected and paid. The city may pursue collection both by levying a special
assessment and in the manner provided by K.S.A. 12-1,115 and amendments
thereto, but only until the full cost and applicable interest has been paid in
full.
ARTICLE 6: INSURANCE PROCEEDS FUND
Section
   
8-601   Scope and application
   
8-602   Lien created
   
8-603   Same; encumbrances
   
8-604   Same; pro rata basis
   
8-605   Procedure
   
8-606   Fund created; deposit of monies
   
8-607   Building Inspector; investigation, removal of structure
   
8-608   Removal of structure; excess monies
   
8-609   Same; disposition of funds
   
8-610   Effect upon insurance policies
   
8-611   Insurers; liability
§ 8-601 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   The city is hereby authorized to utilize the procedures established by
K.S.A. 40-3901 et seq., whereby no insurance company shall pay a claim of a
named insured for loss or damage to any building or other structure located
within the city, where the amount recoverable for the loss or damage to the
building or other structure under all policies is in excess of 75% of the face
value of the policy covering such building or other insured structure, unless
there is compliance with the procedures set out in this article.
§ 8-602 LIEN CREATED.
   The governing body of the city hereby creates a lien in favor of the city on
the proceeds of any insurance policy based upon a covered claim payment made
for damage or loss to a building or other structure located within the city,
where the amount recoverable for all the loss or damage to the building or
other structure under all policies is in excess of 75% of the face value of the
policy(s) covering such building or other insured structure. The lien arises
upon any unpaid tax, special ad valorem levy, or any other charge imposed upon
real property by or on behalf of the city which is an encumbrance on real
property, whether or not evidenced by written instrument, or such tax, levy,
assessment, expense or other charge that has remained undischarged for at least
one year prior to the filing of a proof of loss.
§ 8-603 SAME; ENCUMBRANCES.
   Prior to final settlement on any claim covered by §
8-602 of this article, the insurer or insurers shall contact the County
Treasurer to determine whether any such encumbrances are presently in
existence. If the same are found to exist, the insurer or insurers shall
execute and transmit in an amount equal to that owing under the encumbrances a
draft payable to the County Treasurer.
§ 8-604 SAME; PRO RATA BASIS.
   Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all insurance
companies insuring the building or other structure.
§ 8-605 PROCEDURE.
   (a)   When final settlement on a covered claim has been agreed to or arrived
at between the named insured or insureds and the company or companies, and the
final settlement exceeds 75% of the face value of the policy covering any
building or other insured structure, and when all amounts due the holder of a
first real estate mortgage against the building or other structure, pursuant to
the terms of the policy and endorsements thereto, shall have been paid, the
insurance company or companies shall execute a draft payable to the City
Treasurer in an amount equal to the sum of 15% of the covered claim payment,
unless the Chief Building Inspector of the city has issued a certificate to the
insurance company or companies that the insured has removed the damaged
building or other structure, as well as all associated debris, or repaired,
rebuilt, or otherwise made the premises safe and secure.
   (b)   Such transfer of funds shall be on a pro rata basis by all companies
insuring the building or other structure. Policy proceeds remaining after the
transfer to the city shall be disbursed in accordance with the policy terms.
   (c)   Upon the transfer of the funds as required by division (a) above, the
insurance company shall provide the city with the name and address of the named
insured or insureds, the total insurance coverage applicable to said building
or other structure, and the amount of the final settlement agreed to or arrived
at between the insurance company or companies and the insured or insureds,
whereupon the Chief Building Inspector shall contact the named insured or
insureds by certified mail, return receipt requested, notifying them that said
insurance proceeds have been received by the city and apprise them of the
procedures to be followed under this article.
§ 8-606 FUND CREATED; DEPOSIT OF MONIES.
   The City Treasurer is hereby authorized and shall create a fund to be known
as the Insurance Proceeds Fund. All monies received by the City Treasurer as
provided for by this article shall be placed in said fund and deposited in an
interest-bearing account.
§ 8-607 BUILDING INSPECTOR; INVESTIGATION, REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE.
   (a)   Upon receipt of monies as provided for by this article, the City
Treasurer shall immediately notify the Chief Building Inspector of said
receipt, and transmit all documentation received from the insurance company or
companies to the Chief Building Inspector.
   (b)   Within 30 days of the receipt of said moneys, the Chief Building
Inspector shall determine, after prior investigation, whether the city shall
instigate proceedings under the provisions of K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (c)   Prior to the expiration of the 30 days established by division (b)
above, the Chief Building Inspector shall notify the City Treasurer whether he
or she intends to initiate proceedings under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as
amended.
   (d)   If the Chief Building Inspector has determined that proceedings under
K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq., as amended shall be initiated, he or she will do so
immediately but no later than 45 days after receipt of the monies by the City
Treasurer.
   (e)   Upon notification to the City Treasurer by the Chief Building
Inspector that no proceedings shall be initiated under K.S.A. 12-1750 et seq.,
as amended, the City Treasurer shall return all such monies received, plus
accrued interest, to the insured or insureds as identified in the communication
from the insurance company or companies. Such return shall be accomplished
within 45 days of the receipt of the monies from the insurance company or
companies.
§ 8-608 REMOVAL OF STRUCTURE; EXCESS MONIES.
   If the Chief Building Inspector has proceeded under the provisions of K.S.A.
12-1750 et seq., as amended, all monies in excess of that which is ultimately
necessary to comply with the provisions for the removal of the building or
structure, less salvage value, if any, shall be paid to the insured.
§ 8-609 SAME; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   If the Chief Building Inspector, with regard to a building or other
structure damaged determines that it is necessary to act under K.S.A. 12-1756,
any proceeds received by the City Treasurer under the authority of §
8-605(a) of this article relating to that building or other structure shall be
used to reimburse the city for any expenses incurred by the city in proceeding
under K.S.A. 12-1756. Upon reimbursement from the insurance proceeds, the Chief
Building Inspector shall immediately effect the release of the lien resulting
therefrom. Should the expenses incurred by the city exceed the insurance
proceeds paid over to the City Treasurer under §
8-605(a) of this article, the Chief Building Inspector shall publish a new lien
as authorized by K.S.A. 12-1756, in an amount equal to such excess expenses
incurred.
§ 8-610 EFFECT UPON INSURANCE POLICIES.
   This article shall not make the city a party to any insurance contract, nor
is the insurer liable to any party for any amount in excess of the proceeds
otherwise payable under its insurance policy.
§ 8-611 INSURERS; LIABILITY.
   Insurers complying with this article or attempting in good faith to comply
with this article shall be immune from civil and criminal liability and such
action shall not be deemed in violation of K.S.A. 40-2404 and any amendments
thereto, including withholding payment of any insurance proceeds pursuant to
this article, or releasing or disclosing any information pursuant to this
article.
ARTICLE 7: RODENT CONTROL
Section
   
8-701   Definitions
   
8-702   Building maintenance
   
8-703   Notice to rat-stop; when city to do work
   
8-704   Failure to comply
   
8-705   Replace rat-stoppage
   
8-706   Notice to eradicate rats
   
8-707   Conditions conducive to harborage of rats
   
8-708   Inspections
§ 8-701 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted for
occupancy as a residence; the transaction of business; the rendering of
professional services; amusement; the display, sale or storage of goods, wares
or merchandise; or the performance of work or labor, including office
buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants, workshops
and all other houses, sheds and other structures on the premises used for
business purposes.
   OCCUPANT. The person that has the use of, controls or occupies any business
building or any portion thereof, whether owner or tenant. In the case of vacant
business buildings or any vacant portion of a business building, the owner,
agent or other person having custody of the building shall have the
responsibilities of an OCCUPANT of a building.
   OWNER. The owner of any building or structure, whether individual, firm,
partnership or corporation.
   RAT HARBORAGE. Any condition that provides shelter or protection for rats,
thus favoring their multiplication and continued existence in, under or outside
a structure of any kind.
   RAT-STOPPAGE. A form of rat-proofing to prevent the ingress of rats into
buildings from the exterior or from one building to another, consisting
essentially of the closing of all openings in the exterior walls, ground or
first floors, basements, roofs and foundations, that may be reached by rats
from the ground by climbing or by burrowing, with material or equipment
impervious to rat-gnawing.
§ 8-702 BUILDING MAINTENANCE.
   All buildings and structures located within the present or future boundaries
of the city shall be rat-stopped, freed of rats and maintained in a rat-stopped
and rat-free condition.
§ 8-703 NOTICE TO RAT-STOP; WHEN CITY TO DO WORK.
   Upon receipt of written notice from the governing body, the owner of any
building or structure specified therein shall take immediate measures for the
rat-stoppage of such building or structure. The work shall be completed in the
time specified in the written notice, which shall be within 15 days, or within
the time of any written extension thereof that may have been granted by the
governing body.
§ 8-704 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner fails to comply with such written notice or extension, then the
governing body is authorized to take such action as may be necessary to
completely rat-stop the building or structure at the expense of the owner, and
the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of the
building or structure. If the bills are not paid within 60 days, the City Clerk
shall certify the amount due to the City Treasurer and the charge shall be a
lien against the property where the work has been done, and the owner shall be
promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost of labor,
materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for rat-stoppage.
§ 8-705 REPLACE RAT-STOPPAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any occupant, owner, contractor, public utility
company, plumber or any other person to remove the rat-stoppage from any
building or structure for any purpose and fail to restore the same in a
satisfactory condition or to make any new openings that are not closed or
sealed against the entrance of rats.
§ 8-706 NOTICE TO ERADICATE RATS.
   Whenever the governing body notifies in writing the owner of any building or
structure theretofore rat-stopped as hereinabove defined, that there is
evidence of rat infestation of the building or structure, the owner shall
immediately institute appropriate measures for freeing the premises so occupied
of all rats. Unless suitable measures for freeing the building or structure of
rats are instituted within five days after the receipt of notice, and unless
continually maintained in a satisfactory manner, the city is hereby authorized
to free the building or structure of rats at the expense of the owner thereof
and the City Clerk shall submit bills for the expense thereof to the owner of
the building or structure and if the same are not paid, the City Clerk shall
certify the amount due from the owner to the City Treasurer, and the owner
shall be promptly billed therefor. The expense thereof shall include the cost
of labor, materials, equipment and any other actual expense necessary for the
eradication measures.
§ 8-707 CONDITIONS CONDUCIVE TO HARBORAGE OF RATS.
   (a)   All food and feed kept within the city for feeding animals shall be
kept and stored in rat-free and rat-proof containers, compartments or rooms
unless kept in a rat-stopped building.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, leave, dump or permit to
accumulate any garbage or trash in any building or premises so that the same
shall afford food and harborage for rats.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or to permit the
accumulation on any premises or on any open lot any lumber, boxes, barrels,
bricks, stone or similar materials that may be permitted to remain thereon and
that are rat harborages, unless the same shall be placed on open racks that are
elevated not less than 12 inches above the ground, evenly piled or stacked.
   (d)   Whenever conditions inside or under any building or structure provide
such extensive harborage for rats that the Health Department deems it necessary
to eliminate such harborage, he or she may require the owner to install
suitable cement floors in basements or to replace wooden first or ground floors
or require the owner to correct such other interior rat harborage as may be
necessary to facilitate the eradication of rats in a reasonable time and
thereby to reduce the cost of such eradication.
§ 8-708 INSPECTIONS.
   The public officer is empowered to make such inspections and re-inspections
of the interior and exterior of any building or structure as in his or her
opinion may be necessary to determine full compliance with this article.
ARTICLE 8: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
Section
   
8-801   Emergency procedure
   
8-802   Effective time
   
8-803   Termination
   
8-804   Penalty
§ 8-801 EMERGENCY PROCEDURE.
   Whenever, in the judgment of the Mayor or, in the event of his or her
inability to act, the President of the Council, determines that an emergency
exists as a result of mob action or threatened civil disobedience or
catastrophe from act of God or humans, causing, or likely to cause injury, loss
or damages to person or property, he shall have power to impose by proclamation
any or all of the following regulations necessary to preserve the peace and
order of the city, to wit:
   (a)   To impose a curfew upon all or any portion of the city thereby
requiring all persons in such designated curfew areas to forthwith remove
themselves from the public streets, alleys, parks or other public places;
provided that, physicians, nurses and ambulance operators performing medical
services, utility personnel maintaining essential public services, firefighters
and County Sheriff and other authorized personnel may be exempt from such
curfew;
   (b)   To order the closing of any business establishment anywhere within the
city for the period of the emergency, such businesses to include, but not to be
limited to, those selling intoxicating liquors, cereal malt beverages, gasoline
or firearms;
   (c)   To designate any public street, thoroughfare or vehicle parking areas
closed to motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic;
   (d)   To call upon the County Sheriff or regular and auxiliary law
enforcement agencies and organizations within or without the city to assist in
preserving and keeping the peace within the city; and
   (e)   Any and all of said regular and auxiliary law enforcement agencies,
organizations and their individual officers shall have the full power and
authority to make arrests and to act on behalf of the city in order to enforce
the provisions provided for herein and any and all other city ordinances that
might be violated as a result of any mob action or other civil disobedience.
§ 8-802 EFFECTIVE TIME.
   The proclamation of emergency provided herein shall become effective upon
its issuance and dissemination to the public by appropriate news media.
§ 8-803 TERMINATION.
   Any emergency proclaimed in accordance with the provisions of this article
shall terminate after 48 hours from the issuance thereof, or upon the issuance
of a proclamation determining an emergency no longer exists, whichever occurs
first. The emergency may be extended for such additional periods of time as
determined necessary by resolution of the governing body.
§ 8-804 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with the orders of
any duly authorized law enforcement officer or personnel charged with the
responsibility of enforcing the proclamation of emergency authorized herein
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
1-115 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER IX: MUNICIPAL COURT
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   APPEARANCE BONDS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
9-101   Municipal Court established
   
9-102   Same; practice and procedure
   
9-103   Time and place of sessions
   
9-104   Municipal Judge; appointment
   
9-105   Same; absence; vacancy; pro tem
   
9-106   Same; powers and duties
   
9-107   Same; salary
   
9-108   Court Clerk
   
9-109   Payment of fine
   
9-110   Same; failure to pay separate violation
   
9-111   Failure to appear
   
9-112   Court costs
§ 9-101 MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Municipal Court for the city. The Municipal
Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine cases involving violations
of the ordinances of the city.
§ 9-102 SAME; PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE.
   The State Code of Procedure for Municipal Courts, as set forth in K.S.A. 12-
4101 et seq., and all acts amendatory or supplemental thereto, shall govern the
practice and procedure in all Municipal Court cases.
§ 9-103 TIME AND PLACE OF SESSIONS.
   The Municipal Court shall be held in the Municipal Courtroom in the City
Hall building on such days and at such hours as the Municipal Judge designates.
§ 9-104 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; APPOINTMENT.
   The Municipal Court shall be presided over by a Municipal Judge. The Mayor,
subject to the approval of the City Council, shall appoint the Judge of the
Municipal Court.
§ 9-105 SAME; ABSENCE; VACANCY; PRO TEM.
   (a)   In the event the Municipal Judge is temporarily unable to preside due
to absence, illness or disqualification, the Municipal Judge shall designate an
attorney or other qualified person to act as Judge Pro Tempore. In the event
the Municipal Judge fails to appoint a Judge Pro Tempore, the Judge Pro Tempore
shall be appointed in the same manner as the Municipal Judge is selected. The
Judge Pro Tempore shall receive compensation as shall be provided by ordinance,
payable in the same manner as the compensation of the regular Municipal Judge.
   (b)   In the event a vacancy shall occur in the office of Municipal Judge, a
successor shall be appointed to fill the unexpired term in the same manner as
the Municipal Judge was appointed.
(K.S.A. 12-4107)
§ 9-106 SAME; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Municipal Judge shall have such powers and duties as set forth in the
State Code of Procedure for Municipal Courts (K.S.A. 12-4101 et seq.) and all
acts amendatory or supplemental thereto.
§ 9-107 SAME; SALARY.
   The Municipal Judge shall receive a salary as shall be fixed by ordinance.
§ 9-108 COURT CLERK.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Office of the Clerk of the Municipal
Court of the city, which office shall be filled by appointment by the Municipal
Judge of the Municipal Court.
   (b)   The duties of the office shall be those prescribed by the Code for
Municipal Courts set forth in K.S.A. Chapter 12, Article 41, and shall include
the following duties.
      (1)   The Clerk shall issue all processes of the Court; administer oaths;
file and preserve all papers, and docket cases; and set same for trial and
shall perform such further acts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and
responsibilities of the Court. The Clerk shall receive, account for and pay to
the City Treasurer monthly all fines and forfeited bonds paid into the Court.
The Clerk shall make reports to the Judicial Administrator and furnish the
information when requested by him, her or a departmental justice on such forms
furnished by the Judicial Administrator, and approved by the Supreme Court.
      (2)   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall within ten days after
selection and before entering upon the duties of office, execute to the city
such bond as the governing body may require, which shall be approved by the
governing body, and file in the office of the City Clerk, conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties required of him or her by law, and for the
faithful application and payment of all monies that may come into his or her
hands in the execution of the duties of the office. The city shall pay the cost
of such bond.
      (3)   The monthly salary of the Clerk shall be fixed by ordinance.
      (4)   A majority of all members of the Council may remove the Clerk
appointed under the authority of this article, or for good cause the Mayor may
temporarily suspend any such appointed Clerk.
(K.S.A. 12-4108)
§ 9-109 PAYMENT OF FINE.
   Where a Municipal Court judgment against any person results in a fine and/or
court costs only, the same shall be satisfied by paying the amount of such fine
and/or court costs to the Municipal Court immediately on the rendition of
judgment, or at such time as the Municipal Judge shall determine.
§ 9-110 SAME; FAILURE TO PAY SEPARATE VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail to pay any lawfully
imposed fine for a violation of any law of the city within the time authorized
by the Court and without lawful excuse having been presented to the Court on or
before the date the fine is due. Such conduct constitutes a violation of this
article, regardless of the full payment of the fine after such time.
§ 9-111 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person charged with violation of any law
of the city to fail to appear before the Municipal Court when so scheduled to
appear, unless lawful excuse for absence is presented to the Court on or before
the time and date scheduled for appearance.
   (b)   For the purpose of division (a) above, failure to appear shall include
willfully incurring a forfeiture of an appearance bond and failure to surrender
oneself within 30 days following the date of such forfeiture by one who is
charged with a violation of the laws of the city and has been released on bond
for appearance before the Municipal Court for trial or other proceeding prior
to conviction, or willfully incurring a forfeiture of an appearance bond and
failing to surrender oneself within 30 days after his or her conviction of a
violation of the laws of the city has become final by one who has been released
on an appearance bond by any court of this state.
   (c)   Any person who is released upon his or her own recognizance, without
surety, or who fails to appear in response to a summons, notice to appear or
traffic citation duly served upon him or her personally shall be deemed a
person released on bond for appearance within the meaning of division (b)
above.
   (d)   Failure to appear, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by
incarceration for up to 30 days and/or a fine of up to $250.
§ 9-112 COURT COSTS.
   Court costs shall be assessed against the accused person in any Municipal
Court case where the accused person pleads guilty, or no contest, or nolo
contendere, or is found guilty. Court costs shall be $108 per case and, in
addition thereto, the Municipal Judge may assess witness fees and mileage as
set forth in K.S.A. 12-4411, and amendments thereto, and the Municipal Judge,
in addition to the aforesaid, shall make the assessment required by K.S.A. 12-
4116, and amendments thereto.
(Ord. 1444, passed 7-5-2022)
ARTICLE 2: APPEARANCE BONDS
Section
   
9-201   Appearance bonds
   
9-202   Same
   
9-203   Bonds amounts
   
9-204   Release
   
9-205   Bonds credited to city
   
9-206   Report to Vehicle Department
§ 9-201 APPEARANCE BONDS.
   (a)   The provisions and amendments to the Non-Resident Violators Compact,
K.S.A. 8-1212 et seq., are hereby incorporated.
   (b)   When a person is stopped whose home state is not a member state of the
non-resident violators compact, the County Sheriff shall either cause an
immediate hearing to be had or require the person so halted to give a bond. The
bond shall be subject to forfeiture if the person does not appear at the Court
at the time specified in a written notice which is contained in the written
traffic citation. Such bond shall be for cash.
§ 9-202 SAME.
   The cash bond may be furnished to the officer who has stopped the person for
traffic violation and, in such case, the officer shall give to the person a
receipt showing the amount of cash bond received by him or her and the offense
charged. If the person so halted by the County Sheriff requests, the County
Sheriff shall furnish a person a stamped envelope addressed to the Municipal
Judge of the city and, in the presence of the officer, the person shall deposit
such envelope and the person need not sign the written notice to appear, but
the officer shall note the amount of the bond mailed on the notice to appear
form and shall give a copy of such form to the person so halted.
§ 9-203 BONDS AMOUNTS.
   Appearance bonds shall be set by the Municipal Court Judge in such amount as
to cover the minimum fine and court costs if any.
§ 9-204 RELEASE.
   Whenever any person shall have posted bond as provided in §
9-203 of this article, the arresting officer shall release the person arrested
from custody.
§ 9-205 BONDS CREDITED TO CITY.
   The Municipal Judge shall keep a record of all appearance bonds received and
the disposition thereof. All appearance bonds declared forfeited shall be paid
to the City Treasurer who shall give a receipt therefor and credit the same to
the General Fund of the city. The Municipal Judge shall file all such receipts
in the appearance bond record in his or her office.
§ 9-206 REPORT TO VEHICLE DEPARTMENT.
   The Municipal Judge shall report to the Division of Vehicles, Department of
Revenue, all forfeitures of bail or bond, or convictions within ten days
thereafter, on forms provided by the Department for violations of ordinances
regulating the operation of vehicles.
CHAPTER X: LAW ENFORCEMENT
   Article
      
1.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
2.   PROPERTY IN LAW ENFORCEMENT CUSTODY
ARTICLE 1: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
10-101   Law enforcement
   
10-102   Rules and regulations
§ 10-101 LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   All police powers and law enforcement duties within the city shall be
controlled by the Sheriff of Phillips County, Kansas, as contracted with
between the Sheriff and the governing body of the city.
§ 10-102 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Sheriff of Phillips County shall have power to make such rules and
regulations as may be necessary for the proper and efficient conduct of the
Department.
ARTICLE 2: PROPERTY IN LAW ENFORCEMENT CUSTODY
Section
   
10-201   Regulations
   
10-202   Disposition
   
10-203   Same; exempt property
   
10-204   Claiming property
   
10-205   Proof of ownership
   
10-206   Auction
§ 10-201 REGULATIONS.
   The Sheriff’s Department is required to establish regulations detailing the
collection, storage and inventory of property that may come under its control
by any manner.
§ 10-202 DISPOSITION.
   Any property which has been acquired or turned over to the Sheriff’s
Department and has been classified in accordance with procedures existing in
the Sheriff’s Department as unclaimed or for which the proper owner cannot be
ascertained shall be kept for a minimum of 90 days. After a period of 90 days,
such property, except as provided in §
10-203 of this chapter, shall be sold at public auction to the highest bidder
and the proceeds after expenses shall be paid to the State Treasurer pursuant
to K.S.A. 20-2801, and amendments thereto.
§ 10-203 SAME; EXEMPT PROPERTY.
   The following classes of property shall be considered exceptions to §
10-202 of this chapter and shall be dealt with in the following manner.
   (a)   Cash money shall be turned over to the City General Fund unless it
shall be determined to have collector’s value, in which case it shall be
auctioned according to the provisions in §
10-202 of this chapter.
   (b)   Except as provided in divisions (c) and (d) below, any weapon or
ammunition, in the discretion of the court having jurisdiction of the property,
shall be:
      (1)   Forfeited to the County Sheriff seizing the weapon for use within
such agency, for sale to a properly licensed federal firearms dealer, for
trading to a properly licensed federal firearms dealer for other new or used
firearms or accessories for use within such agency, or for trading to another
law enforcement agency for that agency’s use;
      (2)   Forfeited to the state’s Bureau of Investigation for law
enforcement, testing or comparison by the state’s Bureau of Investigation
forensic laboratory;
      (3)   Forfeited to a county regional forensic science center, or other
county forensic laboratory for testing, comparison or other forensic science
purposes; or
      (4)   Forfeited to the State Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism
for use pursuant to the conditions set forth in K.S.A. 32-1047, and amendments
thereto.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (d) below, any weapon which cannot be
forfeited pursuant to division (b) above due to the condition of the weapon,
and any weapon which was used in the commission of a felony as described in
K.S.A. 21-5401, 21-5402, 21-5403, 21-5404 or 21-5405, and amendments thereto,
shall be destroyed.
   (d)   If a weapon is seized from an individual and the individual is not
convicted or adjudicated as a juvenile offender of the violation for which the
weapon was seized, then within 30 days after the declination or conclusion of
prosecution of the case against the individual, including any period of appeal,
the law enforcement agency that seized the weapon shall verify that the weapon
is not stolen, and upon such verification shall notify the person from whom it
was seized that the weapon may be retrieved. Such notification shall include
the location where such weapon may be retrieved.
   (e)   If weapons are sold as authorized by division (b) above, the proceeds
of the sale shall be credited to the Asset Seizure and Forfeiture Fund of the
seizing agency.
   (f)   For purposes of divisions (b), (c) and (d) above, the term WEAPON
means any:
      (1)   Bludgeon, sand club, metal knuckle or throwing star;
      (2)   Dagger, dirk, billy, blackjack, slungshot, dangerous knife,
straight-edged razor, stiletto or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instrument of like character;
      (3)   Spring gun; or
      (4)   Firearm.
   (g)   Homemade weapons or weapons of a contraband nature shall be destroyed.
   (h)   Any items determined to be contraband such as explosives, narcotics
and the like shall be destroyed.
   (i)   Controlled substances forfeited for violations of K.S.A. 21-5701
through 21-5717, and amendments thereto, shall be dealt with as provided under
K.S.A. 60-4101 through 60-4126, and amendments thereto.
   (j)   Items of a pharmaceutical nature, which, while not contraband when
properly dispensed, or which are of an over-the-counter-variety, shall be
destroyed.
   (k)   Foodstuffs, if sealed and undamaged may be turned over to any
appropriate social service agency or destroyed, but shall not be auctioned.
   (l)   Alcohol products such as beer, wine, whiskey and the like shall be
destroyed.
   (m)   Items with a value in excess of $500 may be sold after advertising
said item in a general circulation newspaper on at least two occasions. Such
sales shall be by closed bid.
(K.S.A. 22-2512)
§ 10-204 CLAIMING PROPERTY.
   The Sheriff’s Department shall be required to make reasonable attempts to
locate the owner of any property in storage, however, the responsibility for
claiming and identifying any such property shall rest solely with the owner.
§ 10-205 PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   Claimants to any property in police storage shall be required to present
reasonable proof of ownership and no property shall be released unless such
reasonable proof is presented.
§ 10-206 AUCTION.
   At such time as it has been determined that an auction is necessary to
dispose of unclaimed property, an inventory listing all property to be disposed
of shall be prepared and kept on file in the Sheriff’s Department. Notice of an
auction shall be published at least twice in a general circulation newspaper
before the date of the auction. The notice shall specify the date, time and
place of the auction and shall also notify prospective buyers or potential
claimants that a list of items to be auctioned is available at the Sheriff’s
Department and any claims on property must be made before the start of the
auction.
CHAPTER XI: PUBLIC OFFENSES
   Article
      
1.   UNIFORM OFFENSE CODE
      
2.   LOCAL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1: UNIFORM OFFENSE CODE
Section
   
11-101   Incorporating Uniform Offense Code
§ 11-101 INCORPORATING UNIFORM OFFENSE CODE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating
public offenses within the corporate limits of the city that certain code known
as the “Uniform Public Offense Code”, 41st Edition, 2025, prepared and
published in book form by the League of Kansas Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas.
No fewer than three copies of said Uniform Public Offense Code shall be marked
or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ord. 1459”, and to which shall be
attached a copy of this ordinance, and filed with the City Clerk to be open to
inspection and available to the public at all reasonable hours.
(Ord. 1459, passed 10-6-2025)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-201   Additional provisions
   
11-202   When offender is minor
   
11-203   House or street numbers
   
11-204   Fruit, flowers
   
11-205   Curfew
   
11-206   Parent, guardian
   
11-207   Radio, tv interference
   
11-208   Storing vehicles on public property
   
11-209   Possession of fruit, vegetables and the like
   
11-210   Disturbing the peace; violation; penalty
§ 11-201 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The Uniform Public Offense Ordinance incorporated by §
11-101 of this code of ordinances is hereby amended by adding the following
provisions.
§ 11-202 WHEN OFFENDER IS MINOR.
   When any traffic offender under the age of 16 years or any person under the
age of 18 years is arrested with or without a warrant for an offense under this
chapter, such child shall be delivered into the custody of the probation
officer or be taken forthwith before the Juvenile Court of Phillips County;
provided that, if such a person shall have been taken before the Municipal
Court, it shall be the duty of the Municipal Judge to dismiss the charge or
complaint and refer the case to such Juvenile Court.
§ 11-203 HOUSE OR STREET NUMBERS.
   It shall be unlawful to remove, destroy, carry away or in any manner deface
or disfigure any house number, street or avenue name or number.
§ 11-204 FRUIT, FLOWERS.
   It shall be unlawful to maliciously or mischievously enter the enclosure or
lands of any person and pick, destroy or carry away any fruit, flowers, trees,
shrubs, bush or vines.
§ 11-205 CURFEW.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to be
upon any street or other public place or places normally accessible to the
general public for public use, between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on
each day of the week unless accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or other
person exercising legal custody of such person.
   (b)   This prohibition shall not apply to those persons under the age of 16
en route by the most direct and accessible route between their homes and their
places of authorized employment, entertainment or places of attendance or when
performing an errand at the direction of their parent, guardian or the person
exercising legal custody.
   (c)   Authorized as used in this section shall denote prior authorization by
a parent, legal guardian or other person exercising legal custody unless
exempted under division (d) of this section.
   (d)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
County Sheriff about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
§ 11-206 PARENT, GUARDIAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, legal guardian or other person lawfully
entitled to the custody of any person under the age of 16 to allow that person
to be in violation of §
11-205 of this article.
§ 11-207 RADIO, TV INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or wantonly to operate or
cause to be operated, any machine, device, apparatus or instrument of any kind
whatsoever within the city, the operation of which causes reasonable
preventable electrical interference with radio or television reception within
the city. This prohibition shall not apply to electrical machines or equipment
used in providing medical treatment or examinations; provided, such machines or
equipment are properly equipped to avoid all unnecessary or reasonably
preventable interference with radio and television reception and are not
negligently operated.
§ 11-208 STORING VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or place or
store any property of any kind on any portion of a street prepared and platted
as parking. The governing body, however, may authorize the use of unimproved
parking or the improvement of parking for the standing or parking of vehicles
when the curb is removed and such portion of the street is improved for such
purpose.
   (b)   Previously authorizes street parking cutbacks and driveways which do
not conform to this section may continue to be used until such use is revoked
by the governing body.
§ 11-209 POSSESSION OF FRUIT, VEGETABLES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to have in his or her
possession between the hours of 7:00 p.m. on October 25 and 7:00 a.m. on
November 5, while on any street, alley, city right-of-way, city property or
other city public property, any eggs, paint, vegetables or fruit, other than
apples or oranges.
(Ord. 1158, passed 10-21-1985)
§ 11-210 DISTURBING THE PEACE; VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (a)   From 10:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m.:
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, maintain or
cause to be made or continued any excessive, unnecessary, unreasonable or
unusually loud noise or any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others within the
city;
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate or permit the
use or operation of any electronic device, radio receiving set, television,
musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort
of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is
necessary for the convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the
room or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who are
voluntary listeners thereto. NEIGHBORING INHABITANTS shall include persons
living within or occupying residential districts of single- or multi-family
dwellings and shall include areas where multiple-unit dwellings and high-
density residential districts are located;
      (3)   No person shall congregate with other persons because of,
participate in, or be in any part or gathering of people from which sound
emanates of a sufficient volume so as to disturb the peace, quiet or repose of
persons residing in any residential area. No person shall visit or remain
within any residential dwelling unit wherein such party or gathering of people
is taking place, except persons who have gone there for the sole purpose of
abating said disturbance. The County Sheriff may order all persons present in
any group or gathering from which such sound emanates, other than the owners or
tenants of the dwelling unit, to immediately disperse in lieu of being charged
under this section. Owners or tenants of the dwelling unit shall immediately
abate the disturbance and, failing to do so, shall be in violation of this
section; and
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while operating, driving or
parking in a motor vehicle, to use any sound amplification system that disturbs
the peace, quiet and comfort of persons in the vicinity of the motor vehicle.
It shall be a violation of this section if the sound emanating from the sound
amplification system is plainly audible from a distance of 50 feet. PLAINLY
AUDIBLE shall mean any sound produced by a sound amplification system from the
vehicle. SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM shall mean any radio, tape player, compact
disc player, speakers, loud speaker, television or other device for producing
or reproducing sound in or on the motor vehicle used for the strengthening or
increasing of sound. Measurement standards shall be by the auditory senses,
based upon direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible, and
bass reverberations are included.
   (b)   No provision of this section shall be construed to limit or abridge
the rights of any person to peacefully assemble and express opinions. It is the
purpose of this section to protect individuals from unreasonable intrusions
caused by excessive, unnecessary, unreasonable or unusually loud noises.
   (c)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be guilty of
an unclassified misdemeanor violation. Upon a first conviction of a violation
of this section, a person shall pay court costs. Upon a second conviction of a
violation of this section, a person shall pay court costs and a fine not to
exceed $100. Upon a third or subsequent conviction of a violation of this
section, a person shall pay court costs and a fine not to exceed $250.
   (d)   (1)   The County Sheriff finding a person under 18 years of age in
violation of this section shall ascertain the name and address of the minor and
warn the minor that he or she is in violation of this section and shall direct
the minor to proceed at once to his or her home or usual place of abode.
      (2)   If any minor refuses to heed the warning or direction by the County
Sheriff or refuses to give his or her correct name and address, he or she shall
be taken to the Sheriff’s Department and the parent, guardian or other adult
having the care and custody of the minor shall be notified to come and take
charge of the minor.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian or other person lawfully
entitled to the care, custody or control of any person under 18 years of age to
knowingly suffer or permit such person to violate this section.
   (f)   The County Sheriff finding a minor under the age of 18 years violating
the provisions of this section shall warn the child to desist from such
violation and immediately return home. Any parent, guardian or person in charge
of such child who shall permit such child again to violate the provisions of
this section after receiving notice of the first violation shall be fined not
less than $10, nor more than $100, for each such offense, plus court costs.
(Ord. 1296, passed 10-7-2002)
CHAPTER XII: PUBLIC PROPERTY
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   CITY PARKS
      
3.   COMMUNITY BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
      
4.   CEMETERY
      
5.   LIBRARY
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
12-101   Jurisdiction
   
12-102   General ordinances apply
§ 12-101 JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor, with the assistance of the Sheriff of Phillips County, shall have
jurisdiction over all places located within five miles of the city limits,
including city property such as all parks, airports, sewage disposal plants,
waterworks and cemeteries, for the enforcement of any health, quarantine,
cemetery, airport or waterworks ordinances and regulations of the city.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 14-307
§ 12-102 GENERAL ORDINANCES APPLY.
   All general ordinances and general regulations of the city, including public
offenses, of any nature as contained in the code of the city shall apply to all
city property set forth in §
12-101 of this article, and all specific ordinances and specific regulations
which apply to the specific city property mentioned in §
12-101 of this article.
ARTICLE 2: CITY PARKS
Section
   
12-201   City laws extended to park
   
12-202   Law enforcement jurisdiction over parks
   
12-203   Damaging park property
   
12-204   Vehicle regulations
   
12-205   Hunting
   
12-206   Fires
   
12-207   Camping prohibited
   
12-208   Sanitation
   
12-209   Prohibition against alcoholic beverages and cereal malt beverages/
enhanced cereal malt beverages
   
12-210   Preservation of natural state
   
12-211   General regulations
   
12-212   Hours the recreational playground entitled “For the Kids” will be
closed to the public; violation; penalty
§ 12-201 CITY LAWS EXTENDED TO PARK.
   The laws of the city shall extend to and cover all city parks.
§ 12-202 LAW ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION OVER PARKS.
   The city shall have law enforcement regulations governing any public parks
belonging to the city, and the Sheriff’s Department shall have full power to
enforce city laws governing city parks and shall maintain order therein.
§ 12-203 DAMAGING PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized city employees,
to willfully or wantonly remove, injure, tarnish, deface or destroy any
building, walk, bench, tree or improvement or property of any kind belonging to
any park owned by the city.
§ 12-204 VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Motor vehicles, including any vehicle licensed to operate on public
streets, roads and highways and motorbikes, go-carts, snowmobiles and other
motorized off-the-road vehicles shall be operated in a safe and prudent manner
at all times in park areas.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (d) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to park any motor vehicle in any area not designated for such purpose.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (d) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to operate any motor vehicle within any city park, except upon roads,
drives and parking areas established by the city.
   (d)   Divisions (b) and (c) above shall not apply to authorized city
employees while engaged in the maintenance and care of the park.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle in any park area at a
speed in excess of 20 mph.
§ 12-205 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue, catch, trap, maim, kill,
shoot or take any wildlife, either bird or animal, in any manner at any time
while in any city park.
§ 12-206 FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or kindle any fire in any city
park, except in the ovens, stoves or grills provided for that purpose by the
city, and such fire must be extinguished by the person, persons or parties
starting such fire, immediately after use thereof.
§ 12-207 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   Overnight camping is hereby prohibited in city parks, except where posted.
§ 12-208 SANITATION.
   (a)   All waste material, paper, trash, rubbish, tin cans, bottles,
containers, garbage and refuse of any kind whatsoever shall be deposited in
disposal containers provided for such purposes.
   (b)   No such waste or contaminating material shall be discarded otherwise.
   (c)   No sticks, stones, trash or other objects shall be thrown or discarded
in or on any park lands, fountains, pools, drinking fountains, sanitary
facilities or other improvements.
§ 12-209 PROHIBITION AGAINST ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES/
ENHANCED CEREAL MALT BEVERAGES.
   Cereal malt beverage containing less than 6% alcohol, may be possessed and
consumed at city owned parks. No person shall possess, drink or consume any
alcoholic liquor, containing more than 6% alcohol on city owned parks.
(Ord. 1421, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 12-210 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL STATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized city employees,
to take, injure or disturb any live or dead tree, plant, shrub or flower, or
otherwise interfere with the natural state of city parks.
§ 12-211 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The city may post such rules and regulations, as are approved by the
governing body, pertaining to the use of the city parks in a conspicuous place
in each city park. Violations of these posted rules shall constitute a
violation of this code.
§ 12-212 HOURS THE RECREATIONAL PLAYGROUND ENTITLED “FOR THE KIDS” WILL BE
CLOSED TO THE PUBLIC; VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (a)   No person shall enter or remain upon or be in the recreational
playground entitled “For the Kids” located within the Phillipsburg City Park,
from 12:00 a.m. until 6:00 a.m., Central Standard Time, Monday through Sunday.
   (b)   The County Sheriff shall be allowed to enter or remain upon or be in
the aforesaid recreational playground at all times to enforce this provision.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions
of this section.
   (d)   Any person convicted of violating this provision shall be adjudged
guilty of an ordinance infraction, for which the fine shall be not less than
$25, nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 12-211) (Ord. 1338, passed 6-18-2007)
ARTICLE 3: COMMUNITY BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
Section
   
12-301   Community Building regulations and rates
   
12-302   Aquatic Center rates
   
12-303   City Park campground rates
   
12-304   Armory Hall
§ 12-301 COMMUNITY BUILDING REGULATIONS AND RATES.
   (a)   All user charges, deposit fees, rules and regulations affecting the
Community Building shall be set by policy of the governing body.
   (b)   (1)   The Community Building Club Room, the kitchen in the basement
and the second story of the Community Building will not be rented to the
public.
      (2)   The following will be the rental rates:
 
                       $250 for full day events
                       $100 per day for the event to be paid in advance to the
                       city
Community Building Gym $25 per day for set up and clean up to is paid in
                       advance to the city
                       $10 per hour (4-hour max) to be paid in advance to the
                       city
 
      (3)   School sanctioned events will receive a 50% reduction in rental
rates and deposits shall be waived.
      (4)   Waiver of fees for specific fundraisers and non-school youth
activities (under 18 years of age) that are open to all participants will be at
the discretion of the facilities committee.
      (5)   Renter will be held responsible for damage to tables, chairs and
other equipment.
      (6)   Key replacement if lost is $100.
(Res. 235, passed 9-6-2016; Res. 272, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 12-302 AQUATIC CENTER RATES.
   The following will be the rates for the Phillipsburg Aquatic Center:
   (a)   Outdoor pool facility:
 
Daily admission fee $3
Family season pass  $100
                    $80/hour for up to 50 attendees is the minimum rate. The
                    hourly rate will increase an additional $80/hour for every
                    50 attendees over those included in the minimum rate.
                    Example: a party with 29 attendees will cost $80/hour, a
Party rental rate   party with 51 attendees will cost $160/hour and a party
                    with 101 attendees will cost $240/hour. The number of
                    attendees must be provided at the time of reserving the
                    facility so lifeguards can be scheduled. Once the number of
                    attendees that was scheduled is reached, no additional
                    attendees will be allowed
Single season pass  $60
Swim lessons        $30
 
   (b)   Therapy pool facility:
 
20 use card for therapy pool and summer workouts $30/card
Daily admission                                  $2
 
(Res. 325, passed 4-3-2023)
§ 12-303 CITY PARK CAMPGROUND RATES.
   (a)   The campground at the Phillipsburg City Park is open April to mid
November at a rate of $15 a night.
   (b)   Ten spaces are available with 30-amp electrical and water hookups.
Shower house is available. Sewage dump station is available.
   (c)   No reservations accepted.
(Res. 275, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 12-304 ARMORY HALL.
   (a)   The following will be the rental rates:
 
            $250 deposit for full day events
            $200 per day to be paid in advance to the city
Armory Hall $50 per day for set up and clean up to is paid in advance to the
            city
            $10 per hour (4-hour max) to be paid in advance to the city
 
   (b)   School sanctioned events will receive a 50% reduction in rental rates
and deposits shall be waived.
   (c)   Waiver of fees for specific fundraisers and non-school youth
activities (under 18 years of age) that are open to all participants will be at
the discretion of the facilities committee.
   (d)   Renter will be held responsible for damage to tables, chairs and other
equipment.
   (e)   Key replacement if lost is $100.
(Res. 272, passed 10-21-2019)
ARTICLE 4: CEMETERY
Section
   
12-401   Name
   
12-402   Cemetery supervisor; duties
   
12-403   Burial permit required
   
12-404   Cemetery lots; how conveyed
   
12-405   Same; prices
   
12-406   Additional cost
   
12-407   Transfer of lots
   
12-408   Enclosing lot prohibited
   
12-409   Prohibited burials
   
12-410   Entrance prohibited; hours
   
12-411   Grave opening and closing charge
   
12-412   Burial containers
   
12-413   Endowment fund for decorations
   
12-414   Monuments and stones
   
12-415   Plantings
   
12-416   Decoration/adornment regulations
§ 12-401 NAME.
   The Phillipsburg City Cemetery shall be known as “Fairview Cemetery”.
§ 12-402 CEMETERY SUPERVISOR; DUTIES.
   (a)   The Public Works Supervisor shall have charge of the care, upkeep and
maintenance of the city cemetery and all work in connection therewith.
   (b)   The Public Works Supervisor or designated employee shall open and
close all graves and see that all regulations in connection with the enclosure
of lots and grave spaces and adornment of the cemetery are observed.
(Ord. 1361, passed 7-19-2010)
§ 12-403 BURIAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No interment or burial shall be made in the Fairview Cemetery without a
burial permit therefor issued by the City Clerk, after statement of pertinent
information is furnished the Clerk, which information shall be kept on record
by the Clerk. The person in charge of the cemetery shall not inter or permit
the interment of any dead body unless it be accompanied by a permit as required
by law. He or she shall make a return of such permit to the City Clerk and keep
a cemetery record of all interments as required by law.
(Ord. 1361, passed 7-19-2010)
§ 12-404 CEMETERY LOTS; HOW CONVEYED.
   Cemetery lots shall be conveyed by certificate signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the City Clerk, under the seal of the city, specifying that
the purchaser, his or her heirs, has a right in fee simple to such lot or lots
for the sole purpose of interment under such regulations as the Mayor and
Council may from time to time proscribe; provided that the same person shall
not own more than one lot at the same time.
§ 12-405 SAME; PRICES.
   The following will be the fees for the cemetery burial spaces in Fairview
Cemetery:
 
Each burial space for city residents $100 per burial space or $800 per lot
Each burial space for non-city       $200 per burial space or $1,600 per lot
residents
 
(Res. 260, passed 5-21-2018)
§ 12-406 ADDITIONAL COST.
   If, in the event a burial space or spaces is purchased by a resident and,
thereafter, a non-resident other than the original purchaser is in fact buried
in said space, then in that event an additional $25 cost will be charged to the
estate of the non-resident and/or his or her proper legal representative.
(Ord. 1084, passed 12-18-1978)
§ 12-407 TRANSFER OF LOTS.
   If any person or persons desire to transfer ownership of any lot or part of
a lot, the certificate shall be surrendered to the City Clerk and a new
certificate shall be issued. The fee for such transfer shall be $10 per
ownership certificate. The Clerk shall keep a record of such transfers.
(Res. 260, passed 5-21-2018)
§ 12-408 ENCLOSING LOT PROHIBITED.
   No fence, hedge, coping, curbs or other means of enclosure shall be placed
around any lot in the Fairview Cemetery or any addition thereto.
§ 12-409 PROHIBITED BURIALS.
   It shall be unlawful to bury any deceased human body within the corporate
limits of the city, except it be in a cemetery.
§ 12-410 ENTRANCE PROHIBITED; HOURS.
   No person or persons shall enter inside the enclosing fence or be on the
premises of the Fairview Cemetery between the hours of sunset and sunrise,
without the permission of the Public Works Supervisor, City Clerk and County
Sheriff or Mayor.
(Ord. 1361, passed 7-19-2010)
§ 12-411 GRAVE OPENING AND CLOSING CHARGE.
   (a)   The following will be the fees for the opening and closing of any
grave in Fairview Cemetery:
 
Grave opening and closing adult (full size) grave                     $350
Grave opening and closing infant grave                                $300
Grave opening and closing for cremation                               $150
All services held on Saturday, Sunday or holiday additional fee       $50
Fee for notification after 10:00 a.m. the previous Friday of a Monday $50
morning funeral
 
(Ord. 1287, passed 2-18-2002; Res. 289, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 12-412 BURIAL CONTAINERS.
   It is hereby unlawful to bury any deceased human body within the corporate
limits of the city, except that it be in a cemetery and that a rigid outside
container be used for all burials.
(Ord. 1143, passed 5-21-1984)
§ 12-413 ENDOWMENT FUND FOR DECORATIONS.
   An endowment fund may be established at the offices of the city to be used
for future decorations upon a grave site or grave sites within Fairview
Cemetery. The minimum contribution will be $1,500 per grave site. The city will
decorate, as the city work schedule permits, grave sites annually for the
Memorial Day Holiday. The selection of flowers including artificial flowers
will be at the discretion of the city. A bouquet of not less than eight flowers
or wreath may be placed at the grave site by the city. Any funds earned from
the investment of the endowment less decoration expenses will be used for any
cemetery related function or purpose at the discretion of the city. Monument
repair cost will not be included as a service nor paid for by the earnings of
the endowment.
(Ord. 1234, passed - -)
§ 12-414 MONUMENTS AND STONES.
   All monuments and stones shall be set upon a concrete base that is flush
with the ground and extends five inches outside the monument or stone base
dimensions. Monuments and stones shall be constructed of lasting durable
material, such as stone, brick or bronze, which require minimal maintenance and
are compatible with current existing monuments. No monument or stone may be set
by family, individual, monument company or other entity without contacting the
city for an appointment to review the proposed monument and ultimate approval
of same by the city. Any questions regarding monuments and stones shall be
directed to the City Council whose decision shall be final.
(Ord. 1234, passed - -)
§ 12-415 PLANTINGS.
   All planting, care and maintenance for trees, shrubs, and bushes will be
furnished by the city with city council approval. Trees, shrubs and bushes will
not be allowed upon individual grave sites. Plantings such as flowers are
limited to the North or South side of each monument stone. Any tree, shrub,
bush or other planting within the cemetery that is not maintained and becomes
diseased or dies may be removed by the city with the approval of the City
Council.
(Ord. 1234, passed - -)
§ 12-416 DECORATION/ADORNMENT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No statues, benches, chairs or other such items are allowed to be
placed on burial lots, rights-of-way or where mowing is required.
   (b)   No fences are allowed on grave sites unless a detailed diagram is
submitted showing how far the fence will be from the memorial stone, the fence
will be within the space boundaries, what will be inside the fenced area along
with a plan of how the fence and area inside the fence will be maintained by
the owner. At no time will fences be allowed to cover the entire grave or lot.
At a regular meeting, the City Council will determine if the fence will be
allowed after consulting with the Public Works Supervisor concerning
maintenance issues.
   (c)   Decorations are allowed to be placed at the cemetery three days prior
to Memorial Day and must be removed by June 10. If not removed by June 10, the
city will cause the decorations to be disposed of. Approval for all other
decorations, other than Memorial Day and temporary decorations must be obtained
at a regular meeting of the City Council who will consult with the Public Works
Supervisor concerning maintenance issues.
   (d)   The City Council may authorize the public works supervisor to cause
the removal and disposal of fences and decorations previously approved if not
maintained by the owner and the decorations become unsightly or broken. The
Public Works Supervisor or his or her appointees shall be authorized to cause
the removal and disposal of items not previously approved by the City Council,
including, but not limited to, wilted flowers, faded and broken artificial
flowers, solar lights, other decorations which are not on the monument.
(Ord. 1361, passed 7-19-2010)
ARTICLE 5: LIBRARY
Section
   
12-501   Library Board
   
12-502   Same; meetings
   
12-503   Same; powers, duties
   
12-504   Same; Treasurer
   
12-505   Destroying library property
   
12-506   Retaining library property
§ 12-501 LIBRARY BOARD.
   There is hereby created a Library Board, consisting of seven members to be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the governing body. The Mayor shall
be an ex officio member of the Board with the same powers as appointed members.
Of the members first appointed: one shall hold office for a term of one year,
two for a term of two years; two for terms of three years; and two for terms of
four years. Thereafter, all persons shall be appointed to four-year terms. All
terms shall expire on April 30.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1222
§ 12-502 SAME; MEETINGS.
   The Board shall annually elect a Chairperson, Secretary and a Treasurer and
such other officers, as they may deem necessary. The Board shall fix the date
and place of its regular meetings. Special meetings may be called by the
Chairperson upon written request of a majority of the members.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1224
§ 12-503 SAME; POWERS, DUTIES.
   The Library Board shall be responsible for the general operation and
maintenance of the city library and shall make and adopt rules and regulations
for the administration thereof.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1225
§ 12-504 SAME; TREASURER.
   The treasurer shall give bond in an amount fixed by the Library Board and
approved by the governing body of the city for the safekeeping and disbursement
of all funds that may come into his or her hands as Treasurer. Said bond shall
be filed with the City Clerk.
§ 12-505 DESTROYING LIBRARY PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injury or destroy any book,
map, chart, magazine or any property of like nature, or any equipment fixtures
or building belonging to the city library.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1228
§ 12-506 RETAINING LIBRARY PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take from the library any book, map,
chart, magazine or other personal property, except in conformity with the rules
of the library, or for any person willfully to retain any such personal
property, having lawfully or unlawfully obtained possession of same, after
having been notified by the librarian to return the same.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-1228
CHAPTER XIII: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
2.   STREET STANDARDS
      
3.   SIDEWALK STANDARDS
      
4.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
5.   SNOW AND ICE
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
13-101   Obstructing sidewalks
   
13-102   Street obstruction by builders
   
13-103   Barriers and guards
   
13-104   Removal of barriers and guards
   
13-105   Unfinished pavement or sidewalks
   
13-106   Barbed wire fences
   
13-107   Sidewalk obstruction on surface
   
13-108   Petroleum products in street unlawful
   
13-109   Dangerous obstructions
   
13-110   Obstructing visibility; prohibited
   
13-111   Same; exceptions
   
13-112   Notice; removal
   
13-113   Excavations
   
13-114   Duty to lay pipes
   
13-115   Cutting pavements unlawful
   
13-116   Application for permit; parking cutback
   
13-117   Mandatory paving in Commercial or Industrial Zone
   
13-118   Right-of-way; definitions
   
13-119   Same; authorization from city required
   
13-120   Health, safety and welfare regulations
   
13-121   Specific portions of right-of-way restricted
   
13-122   Compliance with manual of uniform traffic-control devices
   
13-123   Additional requirements
   
13-124   Emergencies
   
13-125   Repair
   
13-126   Relocation
   
13-127   Indemnity
   
13-128   Claim notification
   
13-129   Penalty provision
§ 13-101 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or construct any step or other
obstruction, whether temporary or permanent, or to store, leave or allow to be
left any implement, tools, boxes, merchandise, goods, cans, crates, corn
poppers, peanut roaster, ice cream containers, benches, chairs, display, show
cases, scales or self-service merchandisers on any sidewalks or other public
way in the city or to obstruct the same longer than is necessary for loading or
unloading any such article or object. The Mayor may authorize the granting of
temporary permits for limited times only to the owner of property abutting on
any sidewalk or public way of the city during the construction or improvement
thereon. No such permit shall be issued for such purpose until plans for
warning and safeguarding the public during such use of sidewalks or public way
shall have been submitted by the owner or his or her contractor and approved by
the Mayor.
§ 13-102 STREET OBSTRUCTION BY BUILDERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit any building
materials in the streets or alleys or to use such streets and alleys in any
manner for building material without first securing permission from the Mayor.
§ 13-103 BARRIERS AND GUARDS.
   It shall be the duty of every person or persons having charge of any
construction or excavation adjacent to or under any sidewalk or street, during
the progress of such work, to guard the work securely by a wooden fence or wall
attached to posts firmly set in the ground or otherwise securely fixed in place
during such time. It shall further be the duty of all such persons for one hour
after sunset to one hour before sunrise to illuminate such excavation or work
with red lights or flares sufficient in number and so placed as to show the
full extent thereof.
§ 13-104 REMOVAL OF BARRIERS AND GUARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, except those having
authority from the city or any officer thereof, to throw down, interfere with
or remove any barriers, barricades or lights placed in any street to guard and
warn the traveling public of any construction work thereon or adjacent thereto.
§ 13-105 UNFINISHED PAVEMENT OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to walk upon, drive or ride
over or across any pavement, sidewalk or incomplete grading which has not been
opened for travel.
§ 13-106 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain a barbed wire fence
along or next to any sidewalk, street or public place within the city.
§ 13-107 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION ON SURFACE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any property having a sidewalk
adjacent thereto to permit any plank, brick, stone or segment of said sidewalk
to be raised above the established level of said sidewalk more than one-half
inch, in any manner which might catch the foot of a pedestrian, or to permit
any holes or depressions to occur in the sidewalks in which a pedestrian might
step or catch his or her foot in a manner liable to cause injury.
§ 13-108 PETROLEUM PRODUCTS IN STREET UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or throw any waste oil, fuel
oil, kerosene, gasoline or other products of petroleum or any acids into or
upon any street or public grounds of the city, or willfully to permit the same
to be spilled, dripped or otherwise to come into contact with the surface of
any street, alley or sidewalk within the city.
§ 13-109 DANGEROUS OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw or cause to be placed or
thrown in or on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public grounds of the
city, any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, wire or other dangerous objects that
might wound any person or animal, or cut or puncture any pneumatic tire while
passing over the same.
§ 13-110 OBSTRUCTING VISIBILITY; PROHIBITED.
   In all areas on public or private property at any corner formed by
intersecting streets, it shall be unlawful to install, set out or maintain or
to allow the installation, setting our or maintenance of any sign, fence,
hedge, shrubbery, natural growth or other obstruction to view, within that
triangle formed by the curb lines (or the shoulder of the road when no gutter
exists) of the intersecting streets drawn from the apex of the intersecting
curb lines back a distance of 60 feet with a line drawn between said points to
form a base, such area to be herein referred to as a “clear site zone”.
§ 13-111 SAME; EXCEPTIONS.
   Section
13-110 of this article shall not apply to permanent buildings, public utilities
poles, hedges trimmed to a height of less than three feet; trees, the limbs of
which are at all times kept trimmed of limbs and sucker growth on the trunk to
a height of at least eight feet or the limbs of which overhang the public
street and are at all times kept trimmed of sucker growth to a height of at
least 13 feet; plants not planted in the form of hedge which are so planted and
trimmed as to leave at all times a clear and unobstructed cross view; fences
not exceeding four feet in height; provided that, the ratio of the solid
portion of the fence to the open shall not exceed 25%; official warning signs
or signals; and, non-commercial signs constructed parallel with the base line
which, in the opinion of the County Sheriff, do not obstruct the clear site
zone. All heights herein mentioned shall be measured from the gutter grade at
the apex of the clear zone triangle.
§ 13-112 NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   When in the opinion of the County Sheriff, an obstruction to visibility
exists as prohibited herein, it shall be the duty of the Sheriff’s Department
to give notice in writing to the property owner or owners of such obstruction.
Said property owner or owners shall have ten days to comply, except temporary
nature obstruction, shall be removed at once.
§ 13-113 EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall make any excavation in any street, alley or other public
ground in the city for any purpose whatsoever, except excavations required for
work under contract with the city for which usual performance and maintenance
bonds are required, until he or she shall first secure from the city a permit,
countersigned by the Public Works Supervisor or designated officer, to make
such excavation.
§ 13-114 DUTY TO LAY PIPES.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or owners of any lot or lots within the
corporate limits of the city to construct and lay water service pipes, gas
service pipes and sewers to the back of the curb abutting such lot or lots
whenever ordered so to do by order, resolution or ordinance of the governing
body made in conformity to law; provided that, such water service pipes, gas
service pipes and sewers shall not be ordered constructed or laid under the
provisions of this article, except in regard to property abutting upon streets
upon which paving has been ordered.
§ 13-115 CUTTING PAVEMENTS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, break or remove or in any manner
displace or damage any curbing, gutter, street crossing, pavement or sidewalk
or any part thereof without first securing a permit from the Public Works
Supervisor or designated officer.
§ 13-116 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; PARKING CUTBACK.
   An application for a permit under the foregoing section shall be made in
writing to the Public Works Supervisor or designated officer. The application
shall state the location of the premises by block and lot number and street
number, or other sufficient description, the purpose for which the cutting or
removal is to be done, the extent of the curb, gutter, sidewalk or pavement to
be removed, together with a diagram or sketch of the same. A permit granted by
the governing body shall be subject to revocation upon proof that the
conditions of the permit have been changed or violated or otherwise misused by
the permittee.
§ 13-117 MANDATORY PAVING IN COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL ZONE.
   The governing body may order the owner of any lot in a commercial or
industrial zone to install new paving, replace or repair present paving on that
part of the lot between the building line and the curb line.
§ 13-118 RIGHT-OF-WAY; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
13-118 through
13-129 of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, firm, corporation, association, utility or entity,
which enters upon the right-of-way of the city, or in any manner establishes a
physical presence on, upon, in or over the right-of-way of the city, for the
purpose of installing, constructing, maintaining or operating lines, conduits,
wires, fiber optic wires, cables, pipes, pipelines, poles, towers, vaults or
appliances or related facilities or appurtenances thereto.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Only the area of real property in which the city has a
dedicated or acquired right-of-way interest in the real property. It shall
include the area on, below or above the present and future streets, alleys,
avenues, roads, highways, parkways or boulevards dedicated or acquired as
right-of-way. The term does not include the airwaves above a right-of-way with
regard to wireless telecommunications or other non-wire telecommunications or
broadcast service, easements obtained by utilities or private easements in
platted subdivisions or tracts.
(Ord. 1303, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 13-119 SAME; AUTHORIZATION FROM CITY REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person, firm, corporation, association, utility or entity shall
enter upon the right-of-way of the city, or in any manner establish a physical
presence on, upon, in or over the right-of-way of the city, for the purpose of
installing, constructing, maintaining or operating lines, conduits, wires,
fiber optic wires, cables, pipes, pipelines, poles, towers, vaults or
appliances, or related facilities or appurtenances thereto, without the express
written permission of the city. The permission of the city may be granted by a
franchise agreement pursuant to the provisions of K.S.A. 12-2001 et seq. or by
such other agreement as the governing body determines best protects the public
interest in the right-of-way.
   (b)   Nothing in §§
13-118 through
13-129 of this article shall be interpreted as granting an occupant the
authority to construct, maintain or operate any facility or related
appurtenance on property owned by a city outside of the public right-of-way.
   (c)   The city shall process each valid and administratively complete
application for use of the right- of-way within 30 days.
(Ord. 1303, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 13-120 HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE REGULATIONS.
   The authority of a provider to use and occupy the public right-of-way shall
always be subject and subordinate to the reasonable public health, safety and
welfare requirements and regulations of the city.
(Ord. 1303, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 13-121 SPECIFIC PORTIONS OF RIGHT-OF-WAY RESTRICTED.
   (a)   The city hereby prohibits the use or occupation of the following
specific portions of public right-of-way: none.
   (b)   If the city denies a request to use or occupy a specific portion of
the public right-of-way, the requester shall be served a notice of such denial
by first class mail. The notice shall indicate that the requester shall have
ten days from the date of receipt of the notice to request a public hearing by
the city governing body concerning the denial. Failure to make a timely request
for a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the person’s right to contest the
denial before the governing body. The hearing shall be held by the governing
body within 30 days after the filing of the request therefor, and the potential
occupant shall be advised by the city of the time and place of the hearing.
Following the public hearing, if the city governing body denies a potential
occupant’s request to use or occupy a specific portion of the public right-of-
way, such determination may be appealed to the District Court.
(Ord. 1303, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 13-122 COMPLIANCE WITH MANUAL OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   Any occupant of the public right-of-way shall comply with the provisions of
“Standards and Guides for Traffic Controls for Street and Highway Construction,
Maintenance, Utility and Incident Management Operations”, Part VI of the
“Manual of Uniform Traffic-Control Devices (MUTCD)”, published by the U.S.
Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, 1988 Edition,
Revision 3, dated 9-3-1993, which is incorporated herein by reference as if
fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 1303, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 13-123 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   None.
(Ord. 1303, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 13-124 EMERGENCIES.
   If there is an emergency necessitating response work or repair, any person,
firm, corporation, association, utility or entity which has been granted
permission to occupy the public right-of-way may begin that repair or emergency
response work or take any action required under the circumstances; provided
that, the person, firm, corporation, association, utility or entity notifies
the city promptly after beginning the work and timely thereafter meets any
permit or other requirement had there not been such an emergency.
(Ord. 1303, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 13-125 REPAIR.
   Any occupant of the public right-of-way is hereby required to repair all
damage to a public right-of- way caused by the activities of that occupant, or
of any agent affiliate, employee or subcontractor of that occupant, while
occupying, installing, repairing or maintaining facilities in a public right-
of-way and to return the right-of-way, to its functional equivalence before the
damage pursuant to the reasonable requirements and specifications of the city.
If the occupant fails to make the repairs required by the city, the city may
effect those repairs and charge the occupant the cost of those repairs.
(Ord. 1303, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 13-126 RELOCATION.
   Whenever requested by the city, in order to accomplish construction and
maintenance activities directly related to improvements for the health, safety
and welfare of the public, an occupant promptly shall remove its facilities
from the public right-of-way or shall relocate or adjust its facilities within
the public right-of-way at no cost to the political subdivision. Such
relocation or adjustment shall be completed as soon as reasonably possible
within the time set forth in any request by the city for such relocation or
adjustment. Any damages suffered by the city or its contractors as a result of
such occupant’s failure to timely relocate or adjust its facilities shall be
borne by such occupant.
(Ord. 1303, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 13-127 INDEMNITY.
   (a)   Occupants shall indemnify and hold the city and its officers and
employees harmless against any and all claims, lawsuits, judgments, costs,
liens, losses, expenses, fees (including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
defense), proceedings, actions, demands, causes of action, liability and suits
of any kind and nature, including personal or bodily injury (including death),
property damage or other harm for which recovery of damages is sought, to the
extent that it is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be caused by
the negligence of the occupant, any agent, officer, director, representative,
employee, affiliate or subcontractor of the provider, or their respective
officers, agents, employees, directors or representatives, while installing,
repairing or maintaining facilities in a public right-of-way.
   (b)   The indemnity provided by this section does not apply to any liability
resulting from the negligence of the city, its officers, employees, contractors
or subcontractors. If an occupant and the city are found jointly liable by a
court of competent jurisdiction, liability shall be apportioned comparatively
in accordance with the laws of this state without, however, waiving any
governmental immunity available to the city under state law and without waiving
any defenses of the parties under state or federal law.
   (c)   This section is solely for the benefit of the city and occupant and
does not create or grant any rights, contractual or otherwise, to any other
person or entity.
(Ord. 1303, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 13-128 CLAIM NOTIFICATION.
   An occupant shall promptly advise the other in writing of any known claim or
demand against the provider or the city related to or arising out of the
occupant’s activities in a public right-of-way.
(Ord. 1303, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 13-129 PENALTY PROVISION.
   Any person, firm, corporation, association, utility, entity or agent,
contractor or subcontractor thereof violating any provision of §§
13-118 through
13-129 of this article, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor offense and shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a maximum fine of $500 and 30 days in jail. Each
day of violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 1303, passed 12-1-2003)
ARTICLE 2: STREET STANDARDS
Section
   
13-201   Curb lines
   
13-202   Same; construction
   
13-203   Gutters, construction
   
13-204   Removal of imperfect work
§ 13-201 CURB LINES.
   (a)   Curb lines are hereby established upon all streets as follows: on all
streets within one block of Block Seven, Range Four, 14 feet from the property
line; on all of Second, Third and State Streets not hereinbefore provided for
20 feet from the property line; on all other streets 100 feet wide, 30 feet
from the property line; on all 80-foot streets, 20 feet from the property line;
and on all streets less than 80 feet, 15 feet from the property line.
   (b)   On all new additions taken into the city, the curb line shall be the
property line or as may be otherwise shown on the platted addition.
§ 13-202 SAME; CONSTRUCTION.
   When any curb is constructed without an order or contract of the governing
body, it shall be constructed on the established curb line, the top to coincide
with the sidewalk top if a curb sidewalk is adjacent thereto and shall not be
less than 20 inches deep and ten inches wide at the bottom and seven inches
wide at the top, made of a mixture of not less than one part cement to five
parts sand, except the exposed surface which shall be faced two coats of trowel
work made or a mixture of not less than one part of cement to two parts of
sand.
§ 13-203 GUTTERS, CONSTRUCTION.
   When gutters are constructed without an order or contract of the governing
body, they shall be constructed even with the bottom of the curb, shall be 24
inches wide, six inches thick, and of the same material and mixture of work as
required for curbs.
§ 13-204 REMOVAL OF IMPERFECT WORK.
   Any curb or gutter work voluntarily constructed and not conforming to this
article may be ordered removed by the governing body and if not removed within
the time provided by the order, may be removed by the city, and the costs
charged to the owner of the adjacent land and collected as for special
assessment of taxes against said land.
ARTICLE 3: SIDEWALK STANDARDS
Section
   
13-301   Permit required
   
13-302   Sidewalk grade
   
13-303   Same; specifications
   
13-304   Same; petition
   
13-305   Same; condemnation, reconstruction
   
13-306   Notice; publication
   
13-307   Right of abutting owner
   
13-308   Repairs by owner or city
   
13-309   Performance, statutory bond
   
13-310   Obstructing sidewalks
   
13-311   Same; exception
§ 13-301 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk within
the city until the plans first have been approved by the governing body and a
permit issued for such work by the City Clerk.
§ 13-302 SIDEWALK GRADE.
   Hereafter, all sidewalks constructed or reconstructed in the city shall be
constructed on the established grade. When the governing body shall order a
sidewalk constructed as hereafter provided, the city shall pay the cost of
bringing the street to grade for the sidewalk. Where no grade has been
established, the owner of abutting property may construct a sidewalk on the
natural grade. If the grade has been established, the City Clerk shall furnish
the property owner with the official grade by reference to a stated distance
above or below the street grade.
(K.S.A. 12-1801, 12-1807)
§ 13-303 SAME; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (a)   Hereafter, all sidewalks shall be of single-course construction and
shall be constructed and laid in accordance with standard plans and
specifications hereby adopted by reference and filed in the office of the City
Clerk as provided by K.S.A. 12-1802.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct,
reconstruct or repair any sidewalk except as provided by this article.
§ 13-304 SAME; PETITION.
   When a petition signed by no fewer than ten citizens owning real estate in
the city requesting construction of a sidewalk is filed with the City Clerk,
the governing body may, in its discretion, by a resolution, order such sidewalk
constructed as herein provided.
(K.S.A. 12-1803)
§ 13-305 SAME; CONDEMNATION, RECONSTRUCTION.
   When any sidewalk, in the opinion of the governing body, becomes inadequate
or unsafe for travel thereon, the governing body may adopt a resolution
condemning such sidewalk and providing for the construction of a new sidewalk
in the place of the sidewalk condemned.
(K.S.A. 12-1804)
§ 13-306 NOTICE; PUBLICATION.
   (a)   The resolution providing for the construction or reconstruction of a
sidewalk, as the case may be, shall give the owner of the abutting property not
less than 30 days, nor more than 60 days, after its publication one time in the
official city paper in which to construct or cause to be constructed or
reconstructed the sidewalk at his or her own expense.
   (b)   If the sidewalk is not constructed by the property owner within the
time specified, the governing body shall cause the work to be done by contract.
(K.S.A. 12-1805)
§ 13-307 RIGHT OF ABUTTING OWNER.
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the owner of
property abutting on a street, who desires to construct or reconstruct a
sidewalk at his or her own expense and in accordance with official plans and
specifications for the purpose and which meet such other requirements as would
have to be met if the sidewalk were constructed or reconstructed by the city,
to construct or reconstruct a sidewalk without any petition or a condemning
resolution by the governing body. If such property owner desires the sidewalk
to be constructed and reconstructed by the city and an assessment levied as
provided by law in other cases, he or she shall file a request with the
governing body.
   (b)   The governing body, in its discretion, may provide for the
construction or reconstruction of the sidewalk requested in the same manner as
in other cases where citizens or taxpayers petition the governing body.
(K.S.A. 12-1806)
§ 13-308 REPAIRS BY OWNER OR CITY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of the abutting property to keep the
sidewalk in repair, but the city may, after giving five days’ notice to the
owner or his or her agent, if known, of the necessity for making repairs or
without notice if the lot or piece of land is unoccupied, make all necessary
repairs at any time. The same shall be done and the cost thereof assessed
against the lot or piece of land abutting on the sidewalk so repaired as may be
provided by law.
(K.S.A. 12-1808)
§ 13-309 PERFORMANCE, STATUTORY BOND.
   In any case where the reconstruction or construction of a sidewalk is
required to be done by contract as provided in §
13-306 of this article, the governing body may require the contractor to give a
bond for the faithful performance of the contract and for the construction of
the sidewalk in accordance with the plans and specifications, ordinances of the
city or laws of the state, and for all contracts exceeding $1,000 entered into
by the city for any such purpose, a statutory lien bond required by K.S.A. 60-
1111 shall be furnished.
§ 13-310 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or construct any step or other
obstruction, whether temporary or permanent, or to store, leave or allow to be
left any implements, tools, merchandise, goods, containers, benches, display or
show cases, on any sidewalks or other public ways in the city or to obstruct
the same longer than is necessary for loading or unloading any such article or
object.
§ 13-311 SAME; EXCEPTION.
   The governing body may authorize the granting of temporary permits in
connection with a building or moving permit for limited times only to the owner
of property abutting on any sidewalk to use or encumber such sidewalk or public
way of the city during the construction of any building or improvement thereon.
No permit shall be issued for such purpose until plans for warning and
safeguarding the public during such use of sidewalks shall have been submitted
by the owner or his or her contractor and approved by the governing body.
ARTICLE 4: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
13-401   Shade Tree Commission
   
13-402   Organization, membership, vacancies
   
13-403   Donations, gifts and bequests
   
13-404   Duties
   
13-405   Control of planting on streets
   
13-406   Designate species
   
13-407   Removal of trees
   
13-408   Paving of parking area; opening required
   
13-409   Parking strips; definition
   
13-410   Same; removal of pavement
   
13-411   Same; uses prohibited
   
13-412   Same; uses permitted
   
13-413   Tree guards
   
13-414   Spraying, defacing, trees, shrubs
   
13-415   Removal of stumps from streets
   
13-416   Tree remover’s license and bond
   
13-417   Review by City Council
§ 13-401 SHADE TREE COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created a Shade Tree Commission for the city to meet
monthly.
§ 13-402 ORGANIZATION, MEMBERSHIP, VACANCIES.
   (a)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint a shade
tree commission to be known as the “Phillipsburg Shade Tree Commission”,
consisting of three members who shall be appointed for a term of three years;
original appointments to be on the basis of one-year, two-year and three-year
terms. Any vacancy may be filled for the unexpired term only. Such vacancy
shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor with consent of the Council.
   (b)   The members shall select a Chairperson.
§ 13-403 DONATIONS, GIFTS AND BEQUESTS.
   The Shade Tree Commission shall, on behalf of and with the consent of the
City Council, have authority to receive gifts or bequests from any person for
tree planting or maintenance of plantings on any street, avenue or public
property. Said gifts or bequests shall be received by the City Treasurer and
turned over to a special fund for the purposes above set out.
§ 13-404 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Shade Tree Commission to make all plans and
direct all of the operations of the said Commission and to further the
interests of shade tree culture within the limits of the city and any other
property of the city wheresoever located.
§ 13-405 CONTROL OF PLANTING ON STREETS.
   The Shade Tree Commission shall have all authority vested in the city in
order to exercise full control over the regulation, planning, care and control
of shade and ornamental trees and shrubbery now situated or which may hereafter
be planted in any public street, avenue or way of the city. The Commission may:
   (a)   Direct the work of planting, pruning, spraying, removing and
irrigating said trees and shrubs and the protection thereof for the public
good;
   (b)   Regulate and control the use of the ground surrounding the same, so
far as may be necessary for their proper growth, care and protection;
   (c)   Plant trees in any public parking;
   (d)   Remove any tree or part thereof, dangerous to public safety or which
has become a nuisance or necessary for advancement to good culture;
   (e)   Prohibit the planting, pruning or removal of any tree upon any public
street or parking by any person, except under permit from the Shade Tree
Commission;
   (f)   Make rules governing the care and treatment of street trees;
   (g)   Specify the manner in which planting and any pruning of said trees
shall be done and when deemed necessary; and
   (h)   Preserve, make and maintain historic or notable trees.
§ 13-406 DESIGNATE SPECIES.
   The Shade Tree Commission shall designate which species of trees shall be
planted on each street, avenue and way and thereafter no other than the kind
designated shall be planted on the said streets, avenues and ways without the
consent of the Shade Tree Commission; provided that, where streets, avenues and
ways not continuous, each section may be regarded by the Shade Tree Commission
as a unit for purpose of tree designation. Said trees shall be planted at a
distance apart as set forth by the Commission. The Shade Tree Commission shall
set stakes or marks to indicate planting locations and it shall be unlawful to
move or change the location of such stakes or marks or to plant in any other
location on the said street, avenue and way without the consent of said
Commission.
§ 13-407 REMOVAL OF TREES.
   The city, through the Shade Tree Commission, shall have authority to condemn
and remove or order the removal of any tree, tree stump, shrub or vine upon any
of the streets, avenues or ways where the said tree, tree stump, shrub or vine
is dead, diseased or for any other reason undesirable. In the event notice is
given by the Shade Tree Commission to the owner of the abutting property to
remove said tree, tree stump, shrub or vine, such removal shall be done by the
said owner of the abutting property at his or her own expense within 30 days
after the date of service of notice upon him or her by the Shade Tree
Commission. The Shade Tree Commission shall have authority to trim or prune any
street tree or remove any tree which has been planted in violation of any city
ordinance without serving notice upon the owner of the abutting property.
§ 13-408 PAVING OF PARKING AREA; OPENING REQUIRED.
   Whenever public parkings are paved, an opening of at least five by five feet
shall be left unpaved for tree planting, at intervals designated by the Shade
Tree Commission as tree location areas.
§ 13-409 PARKING STRIPS; DEFINITION.
   Parking strips are hereby defined as the area back of the curb or lane of
travel to the property line.
§ 13-410 SAME; REMOVAL OF PAVEMENT.
   Any pavement that may now be laid over any tree location area shall be
ordered opened and removed or may be opened by the Shade Tree Commission and
any rock or rock work occupying any tree location area shall be ordered removed
or may be removed by said Commission.
§ 13-411 SAME; USES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation without the written
consent of the City Council to pave or install cement, macadam, blacktop, oil,
mulch or other material in any parking strip within the city limits. It shall
also be unlawful to deposit stones, rocks or rock work within such areas or to
landscape the same with bushes, flowers or to make a garden plat therein or
plant any seeds of flowers, flower bulbs or any other garden material unless
approved by the Council upon recommendation of the Shade Tree Commission. Such
seeds and garden material shall not include lawn or grass seed approved by the
Shade Tree Commission.
§ 13-412 SAME; USES PERMITTED.
   Parking strips are hereby expressly reserved for use by utilities, seeding
with approved lawn seed and growing of grass and shade and ornamental trees
approved by the Shade Tree Commission.
§ 13-413 TREE GUARDS.
   A tree guard of a character approved by the Shade Tree Commission shall be
placed around each tree planted in any public street, avenue or way when deemed
necessary by the Shade Tree Commission.
§ 13-414 SPRAYING, DEFACING, TREES, SHRUBS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without permission from the Shade Tree
Commission to plant, spray, remove, destroy, girdle, paint, whitewash or deface
any tree or shrub in any part of the streets, avenues or ways, or to injure any
of the said trees or shrubs by root cutting or exposure or by placing oil or
any injurious chemical or substance on the ground around such tree or shrubs or
by typing animals to, or piling building material about or by attaching signs,
supports, wires or other devices to any of said trees or shrubs. However, a
landowner or his or her authorized representative may trim or prune trees
directly in front of his or her own property.
§ 13-415 REMOVAL OF STUMPS FROM STREETS.
   Any tree, tree stump, shrub or vine that shall be removed from any of the
streets, avenues, alleys or public ways shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump removed shall not project above the
surface of the ground.
§ 13-416 TREE REMOVER’S LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or occupation
of topping, treating or removing trees that are located within the public
streets, parkings or alleyways in Phillipsburg without first applying for and
procuring a license as in this section provided. However, a landowner or his or
her authorized representative may trim or prune trees directly in front of his
or her own property. The license fee which shall be payable to the city shall
be $25 annually in advance; provided, however, that, no license shall be
required of any public service company engaging in topping, or removing trees
in public streets, parkings or alleyways in the pursuit of their public service
endeavors. Before any license shall be issued, each applicant therefor shall
first file evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts
of not less than $25,000 for bodily injury and $5,000 property damage
indemnifying the city or any person injured or damaged against any loss or
damage of any kind or description resulting from the pursuit of such business
or occupation as hereinafter described.
(Ord. 1073, passed 8-7-1978)
§ 13-417 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions
of the Shade Tree Commission. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of
the Shade Tree Commission to the City Council, who may hear the matter and make
final decisions.
ARTICLE 5: SNOW AND ICE
Section
   
13-501   Snow and ice to be removed
   
13-502   Same: exception; alternate remedy
   
13-503   Same; penalty
   
13-504   Removal may be made by city
   
13-505   Costs on tax rolls
§ 13-501 SNOW AND ICE TO BE REMOVED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or the occupant of any lots
abutting upon any sidewalks to fail to cause to be removed from such sidewalks
all snow and ice within 12 hours from the time that the snow fall or ice storm
ceases. If the snow falls or ice accumulates upon the sidewalks in the
nighttime, removal of same must be made within 12 hours after sunrise on the
following day.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place snow removed from private
property upon any public street, alley or sidewalk.
§ 13-502 SAME: EXCEPTION; ALTERNATE REMEDY.
   Where there shall be ice or compacted snow on any such sidewalk of such a
character as to make it practically impossible to remove the same, the
sprinkling of ashes, sand or other non-corrosive chemicals on the accumulation
of ice or snow in such a manner as to make such sidewalk reasonably safe for
pedestrian travel shall be deemed a sufficient compliance with the provisions
of this article until the ice or snow can be removed.
§ 13-503 SAME; PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
13-501 of this article shall, upon conviction, be fined $25.
§ 13-504 REMOVAL MAY BE MADE BY CITY.
   If any owner or occupant of any lot or lots shall refuse or neglect to clean
or remove from the sidewalk abutting the lot or lots all snow and ice within
the time specified, the city may cause such snow and ice to be removed from
sidewalks and the cost thereof shall be assessed against such abutting lot or
lots, and the City Clerk shall certify the same to the County Clerk for
collection as provided by law.
§ 13-505 COSTS ON TAX ROLLS.
   The City Clerk shall, at the time of certifying other city taxes to the
County Clerk, certify the unpaid costs for removal of snow or ice performed
under the authority of §
13-504 of this article and the County Clerk shall extend the same on the tax
roll of the county against the lot or parcel of ground. The cost of such work
shall be paid from the General Fund or other proper fund of the city, and such
fund shall be reimbursed when payments therefor are received or when such
assessments are collected and received by the city.
CHAPTER XIV: TRAFFIC
   Article
      
1.   STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
      
2.   LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
3.   RESERVED
      
4.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
ARTICLE 1: STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
Section
   
14-101   Incorporating Standard Traffic Ordinance
   
14-102   Same; speed limits; posted
   
14-103   Same; traffic infractions and traffic offenses
   
14-104   Penalty for scheduled fines
   
14-105   Same; § 33(a) amended
§ 14-101 INCORPORATING STANDARD TRAFFIC ORDINANCE.
   There is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of regulating
traffic within the corporate limits of the city that certain standard traffic
ordinance known as the “Standard Traffic Ordinance for Kansas Cities”, 52nd
Edition, 2025, prepared and published in book form by the League of Kansas
Municipalities, Topeka, Kansas. No fewer than three copies of said Standard
Traffic Ordinance shall be marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ord.
1460”, and to which shall be attached a copy of this ordinance, and filed with
the City Clerk to be open to inspection and available to the public at all
reasonable hours. The County Sheriff, Municipal Judge and all administrative
departments of the city charged with enforcement of the ordinance shall be
supplied, at the cost of the city, such number of official copies of such
Standard Traffic Ordinance similarly marked, as may be deemed expedient.
(Ord. 1460, passed 10-6-2025)
§ 14-102 SAME; SPEED LIMITS; POSTED.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this article and/or
any other ordinance(s), the speed limit on U.S. Highway 183 and U.S. Highway 36
within the city limits shall be as posted and given.
(Ord. 1204, passed 10-21-1991)
§ 14-103 SAME; TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS AND TRAFFIC OFFENSES.
   (a)   Ordinance traffic infraction is a violation of any section of this
chapter that prescribes or requires the same behavior as that prescribed or
required by a statutory provision that is classified as traffic infraction in
K.S.A. 8-2118.
   (b)   All traffic violations that are included within this section, and are
not ordinance traffic infractions, as defined in division (a) of this section,
shall be considered traffic offenses.
(Ord. 1460, passed 10-6-2025)
§ 14-104 PENALTY FOR SCHEDULED FINES.
   The fine for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or any other
traffic offense in which the Municipal Judge establishes a fine in a fine
schedule shall not be less than $10, nor more than $500, except for speeding,
which shall not be less than $10, nor more than $500. A person tried and
convicted for violation of an ordinance traffic infraction or other traffic
offense in which a fine has not been established in a schedule of fines shall
pay a fine fixed by the Court not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 1460, passed 10-6-2025)
§ 14-105 SAME; § 33(a) AMENDED.
   Paragraph (a) of said § 33 of said Standard Traffic Ordinance is hereby
amended to read as follows:
   Speed limits in Residence Districts and Public Parks.
   (a)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with Section 32, the limits specified in this section or established
as hereinafter authorized shall be maximum lawful speeds, and no person shall
drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of such maximum limits;
      (1)   Twenty (20) miles per hour in any business district.
      (2)   Thirty (30) miles per hour in any residence district.
      (3)   Twenty (20) miles per hour in any park, and
      (4)   Fifty-five (55) miles per hour in all other locations. The maximum
speed limit established by or pursuant to this paragraph shall be of force and
effect regardless of whether signs are posted giving notice thereof and not
withstanding any signs giving notice of maximum speed limits in excess thereof,
and any sign giving notice of a maximum speed limit in excess of the limits
established by or pursuant to this paragraph shall not be of any force of
effect.
(Ord. 1053, passed 5-2-1977)
ARTICLE 2: LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
14-201   Traffic-control devices and markings
   
14-202   Angle parking
   
14-203   Center parking
   
14-204   Truck parking
   
14-205   Parking after sundown
   
14-206   Through streets
   
14-207   Stop or yield intersections
   
14-208   Signal light intersection
   
14-209   Certain vehicles, large trucks, semi-trucks, semi-trailers, tractor
trailers, trailers, tractors and buses prohibited
   
14-210   Time limit vehicle parking
   
14-211   Vehicle parking in certain areas
   
14-212   Reserved parking spaces for persons with a disability
   
14-213   Careless driving
   
14-214   Main trafficways
   
14-215   Declaration of traffic emergency
   
14-216   Notice of parking emergency; termination
   
14-217   Removal of parked vehicles
   
14-218   Emergency snow routes; establishment; signs
   
14-219   Penalty
   
14-220   All hazard emergency route
   
14-221   Prohibition of mechanical exhaust devices
   
14-222   Utility all-terrain vehicles, golf carts, micro utility trucks and
work-site utility vehicles; definitions
   
14-223   Same; operation
   
14-224   Same; license required
   
14-225   Insurance required
   
14-226   Same; penalty
   
14-227   Parking on Seventh Street
   
14-228   Same; penalty
§ 14-201 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS.
   The Standard Traffic Ordinance as adopted is hereby modified by adding
thereto the following:
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and fix the location of
such traffic control devices as may be deemed necessary to guide and warn
traffic under the provisions of this chapter, other traffic ordinances and the
state laws. The city shall place and maintain such traffic control signs,
signals and devices when and as may be required by the authority of the
governing body to make effective the provisions of this chapter and other
ordinances for the regulation of traffic. Any official traffic control device
placed pursuant to this section shall be marked and labeled on a map of the
City of Phillipsburg for the purpose of displaying all such traffic control
devices and shall be filed with the city clerk to be open to inspection and
available to the public at all reasonable hours of business.
§ 14-202 ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle parking is permitted in areas designated on the following streets:
   (a)   “F” Street from Second Street to Fourth Street;
   (b)   North side of “F” Street in front of the Community Building;
   (c)   Third Street and Fourth Street from “E” Street to “G” Street;
   (d)   “G” Street from Third Street one-half block west;
   (e)   “E” Street for one-half block on each side of Third Street;
   (f)   “G” Street for one-half block on the south side west of Fifth Street;
   (g)   Within the Courthouse Square; and
   (h)   Near any church or school where an authorized angle parking space is
provided by widened curb lines.
§ 14-203 CENTER PARKING.
   Center parking is permitted within the lines so designated therefore on the
following streets:
   (a)   Third Street from “E” Street to “G” Street;
   (b)    Fourth Street from “E” Street to State Street; and
   (c)   “F” Street from Second Street to Fourth Street.
§ 14-204 TRUCK PARKING.
   All trucks and/or trailers, except one-ton pickups or smaller, shall be
center parked parallel to the curb, in the following truck zones, and on no
other streets in the city, to wit: in the streets adjacent to the courthouse
square to the north and east sides thereof, vehicle may be double parallel
parked along the south side of “F” Street from Fourth Street to the alley east
and at such other places within the city as may from time to time be permitted
by the County Sheriff when those streets are not available, on condition that a
permit in writing shall be required for each such parking other than on the
north and east side of the courthouse square, and along the south side of “F”
Street from Fourth Street to the alley east. The County Sheriff shall not issue
a permit for parking of a loaded truck on any street other than one paved with
bricks. All such overnight parked trucks shall be permitted to so park only
between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and, provided further that, trucks with motors
of any kind left running overnight shall be required to park as far as possible
from any dwelling, houses or apartments; provided that, trucks, except those
loaded with explosive or flammable cargo may be parked overnight or in case of
emergency in the above designated area.
§ 14-205 PARKING AFTER SUNDOWN.
   No person shall park a vehicle on any street after sundown where signs are
erected giving notice that no parking is allowed after sundown.
§ 14-206 THROUGH STREETS.
   The following streets are designated through streets and stop or yield signs
continued as now erected or new ones erected as may be necessary before
entering thereon: U.S. Highways 36 and 183; Second, Third, Fourth and Seventh
Streets south of State Street.
§ 14-207 STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The following are declared to be stop or yield intersections and stop or
yield signs erected as follows:
   (a)   Fourth Street entering “F” Street from the north;
   (b)   Walnut Street entering First Street from the west;
   (c)   Both sides of “F” Street entering First Street;
   (d)   Sunset Drive entering Fischer Drive from the south;
   (e)   Eighth Street entering Kansas Avenue from the north;
   (f)   “G” Street entering City Park;
   (g)   Both exits of City Park onto old U.S. 36;
   (h)   Both sides of Fifth Street entering Nebraska;
   (i)   Both sides of “G” Street entering Fifth Street;
   (j)   Both sides of Middles Drive entering Park Street;
   (k)   Both sides of Sixth Street entering Nebraska Avenue;
   (l)   Both sides of “I”, “G” and “H” Streets entering Sixth Street;
   (m)   Both sides of Seventh Street entering “F” Street;
   (n)   Both sides of Maple Street entering First Street;
   (o)   Maple Street entering Cable Road from the east;
   (p)   Both sides of “G” Street entering First Street;
   (q)   “F” Street entering Fourth Street from the east;
   (r)   Both sides of Sixth Street entering “F” Street;
   (s)   Both sides of Eighth Street entering “F” Street;
   (t)   Southwest Second entering from the south intersection with Fischer
Drive;
   (u)   Third Street entering Nebraska Avenue from the north; and
   (v)   Fischer Drive entering Seventh Street from the west.
§ 14-208 SIGNAL LIGHT INTERSECTION.
   There shall be a stop light signal at the corner of State and Third Streets.
§ 14-209 CERTAIN VEHICLES, LARGE TRUCKS, SEMI-TRUCKS, SEMI-TRAILERS, TRACTOR
TRAILERS, TRAILERS, TRACTORS AND BUSES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No vehicle, or any large truck, semi-truck, semitrailer, tractor
trailer, trailer, tractor or bus with a gross vehicle weight in excess of
45,000 pounds shall be operated or parked on any of the hard- surfaced streets
within the city, except on U.S. Highways 36 and 183. Any gross vehicle weight
exceeding 45,000 pounds must receive written permission from the governing body
prior to operating or parking on any of the hard surface streets with in the
city.
   (b)   In order to provide safe city streets, as well as less maintenance to
city streets the following exceptions to division (a) above are allowed:
      (1)   During the process of loading or unloading such vehicle, large
truck, semi-truck, semi-trailer, tractor trailer, trailer, tractor or bus;
      (2)   During the time such vehicle, large truck, semi-truck, semi-
trailer, tractor trailer, trailer, tractor or bus is used to perform
construction on public or private property, routine or emergency maintenance to
utilities, transportation facilities, on private or public property; or
      (3)   During the time such vehicle, large truck, semi-truck, semi-
trailer, tractor trailer, trailer, tractor or bus is used to train or license
motor vehicle operators.
   (c)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      BUS. A large motor-driven passenger vehicle capable of carrying greater
than 35 passengers at one time or having a gross vehicle weight in excess of
45,000 pounds without written consent from the governing body, used for the
transportation of people for school, church or other public use.
      LARGE TRUCK. A large motor-driven vehicle which is over nine feet in
height, having more than a single rear axle or having a gross vehicle weight in
excess of 45,000 pounds without written consent from the governing body.
(Ord. 1453, passed 4-3-2023)
§ 14-210 TIME LIMIT VEHICLE PARKING.
   No vehicle of any kind shall be parked upon any streets of the city for a
period of more than 48 hours.
(Ord. 846, passed 4-5-1971)
§ 14-211 VEHICLE PARKING IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (a)   On Second Street. It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park
whether occupied or not except momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger
or passengers on either side of Second Street, from the north city limits of
the city to the north side of Park Street in the city.
   (b)   In former municipal pool parking lot. It shall be unlawful to park any
motor vehicle in the upper park parking lot between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1306, passed 4-19-2004)
§ 14-212 RESERVED PARKING SPACES FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY.
   Reserved parking spaces for use only by vehicles identified as used by for
persons with a disability will be established in front of each public building,
as required by law, and placed, at the discretion of the governing body of the
city, in those areas zoned as C-2, Central Business District.
(Ord. 1074, passed 8-7-1978)
§ 14-213 CARELESS DRIVING.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a vehicle upon
a highway or street in a careless or heedless or an inattentive manner, or
without due caution and circumspection, or in any manner not constituting
reckless driving, but so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property.
   (b)   Every person convicted of careless driving shall be punished, upon a
first conviction, by imprisonment for a period of not less than five days, or
by a fine of not less than $30, and not more than $100, or by both such fine
and imprisonment, and on a second or subsequent conviction shall be punished by
imprisonment for not less than ten days, nor more than 30 days, or by a fine of
not less than $50, nor more than $500, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1106, passed 2-16-1981)
§ 14-214 MAIN TRAFFICWAYS.
   (a)   It is hereby authorized, ordered and directed that State Street (U.S.
Highway 36) in the city shall be and hereby is designated and established as a
main trafficway within the city, the primary function of which is the movement
of through traffic within the city, under the authority of K.S.A. 12-685.
   (b)   It is hereby authorized, ordered and directed, under the authority of
the Act (being K.S.A. 12-685 et seq.), that Second Street (U.S. Highway 183)
and State Street (U.S. Highway 36) located within the limits of the city are
hereby designated and established as main trafficways.
(Ord. 1133, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 1357, passed 1-18-2010)
§ 14-215 DECLARATION OF TRAFFIC EMERGENCY.
   Whenever snow has accumulated or there is a possibility that snow will
accumulate to such a depth that snow removal operations will be required, the
Mayor, the Emergency Management Coordinator or the Public Works Supervisor or,
in the absence of the above mentioned, the succession shall follow the lines of
continuity of government as outlined in the Phillips County Emergency
Operations Plan, may declare a traffic emergency and until such traffic
emergency is terminated it shall be unlawful:
   (a)   To park a vehicle on any street designated an emergency snow route in
§ 17-217 of this article; or
   (b)   To operate a vehicle, unless it is capable of safely traveling through
the designated emergency snow route and will not impede snow removal or cause a
traffic hazard.
(Ord. 1257, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 14-216 NOTICE OF PARKING EMERGENCY; TERMINATION.
   Upon declaring a traffic emergency, the Mayor (Emergency Management
Coordinator or Public Works Supervisor and the like) shall forthwith cause
appropriate notice thereof to be given through the local press, radio, TV
override and other media. The parking emergency shall be terminated by notice
given substantially in the same manner as the parking emergency was declared.
(Ord. 1257, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 14-217 REMOVAL OF PARKED VEHICLES.
   All vehicles parked on emergency snow routes must be removed within two
hours after declaration of a traffic emergency has been given. All stranded or
abandoned vehicles impeding snow removal or causing traffic congestion on any
city street shall be removed immediately. After declaration of a traffic
emergency, any vehicle parked on an emergency snow route after two hours notice
and any vehicle impeding snow removal operations or causing traffic congestion
may be removed or caused to be removed by the County Sheriff to the nearest
garage or other place of safety and the vehicle may not be recovered until the
towing and storage charges are paid by the owner of the vehicle.
(Ord. 1257, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 14-218 EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES; ESTABLISHMENT; SIGNS.
   (a)   Upon announcement that the emergency snow ordinance is “in effect”,
the streets listed in this section shall be designated and marked with
“Emergency Snow Route” signs. These signs shall be posted on the right-hand
side of the driving lane at intervals not to exceed four blocks. The emergency
snow routes are as follows:
      (1)   Second Street from Walnut to Park Street;
      (2)   Fischer Drive from SW Second Street to Seventh Street;
      (3)   Seventh Street from “C” Street to the Airport;
      (4)   Park Street from Seventh Street to Highway 183;
      (5)   Fourth Street from State Street to “D” Street;
      (6)   “E” Street from Fourth Street to Fifth Street;
      (7)   “C” Street From Second Street to Seventh Street;
      (8)   Nebraska from Second Street to Seventh Street; and
      (9)   State Street from the east city limits to the west city limits.
   (b)   Appropriate signs shall be installed along each of the streets
designated emergency snow routes.
(Ord. 1257, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 14-219 PENALTY.
   Any operator of a vehicle who shall violate the provisions of §§
14-215 through
14-220 of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a traffic
infraction and fined an amount not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 1257, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 14-220 ALL HAZARD EMERGENCY ROUTE.
   Sections
14-215 through
14-220 of this article is designated primarily as a snow removal ordinance;
however, it can also be used as an “All Hazard Emergency Route” in the event of
any other emergency conditions.
(Ord. 1257, passed 12-15-1997)
§ 14-221 PROHIBITION OF MECHANICAL EXHAUST DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or
cause to be used or operated within the city any mechanical exhaust device
designed to aid in the stopping or braking of a vehicle in a manner so as to
create excessive, loud or unusual explosive noise from a vehicle.
(Ord. 1259, passed 7-14-1998)
§ 14-222 UTILITY ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, GOLF CARTS, MICRO UTILITY TRUCKS AND
WORK-SITE UTILITY VEHICLES; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
14-223 through
14-226 of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A motor vehicle that has not less than three wheels in contact
with the ground, an unladen weight of not more than 1,800 pounds, is designed
to be operated at not more than 25 mph and is designed to carry not more than
four persons, including the driver.
   MICRO UTILITY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle which is not less than 48 inches in
width, has an overall length, including the bumper, of not more than 144
inches, has an unladen weight, including fuel and fluids, of more than 1,500
pounds, can exceed 40 mph as originally manufactured, is equipped with four or
more tires, a steering wheel and bench or bucket type seating allowing at least
two people to sit side by side, has a fully enclosed manufactured metal or
metal reinforced cab, has front and rear bumpers, and may be equipped with a
bed or cargo box for hauling materials. MICRO UTILITY TRUCK does not include a
work-site utility vehicle.
   NON-HIGHWAY TIRE. As applicable to utility all-terrain vehicle only, means
any pneumatic tire six inches or more in width, designed for use on wheels with
rim diameter of 14 inches or less.
   SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE. A utility all-terrain vehicle, golf cart, micro-
utility truck, work-site utility vehicle, individually or collectively. SPECIAL
PURPOSE VEHICLE does not include sport all-terrain vehicle.
   SPORT ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized non-highway vehicle 50 inches or
less in width, having a dry weight of 1,000 pounds or less, traveling on four
non-highway tires, a designed seat straddled by the operator, manufactured with
some or all of the following: high fenders; no driving lights; no turn signals;
no brake lights; no rack; loud exhaust; and two-wheel drive. SPORT ALL-TERRAIN
VEHICLE does not include utility all-terrain vehicle.
   UTILITY ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized non-highway vehicle 50 inches or
less in width, having a dry weight of 1,500 pounds or less, traveling on three
or more non-highway tires, a designed seat straddled by the operator,
manufactured with some or all of the following: low fenders, rack on the back;
quiet mufflers; and four-wheel drive. UTILITY ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE does not
include sport all-terrain vehicle.
   WORK-SITE UTILITY VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is not less than 48
inches in width, has an overall length, including the bumper, of not more than
135 inches, has an unladen weight, including fuel and fluids, of more than 200
pounds and is equipped with four or more low pressure tires, a steering wheel
and bench or bucket type seating allowing at least two people to sit side-by-
side, and may be equipped with a bed or cargo box for hauling materials. WORK-
SITE UTILITY VEHICLE does not include a micro-utility truck.
(Ord. 1355, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 14-223 SAME; OPERATION.
   (a)   Utility all-terrain vehicles may be operated upon the public highways,
streets, roads, and alleys within the corporate limits of the city; provided,
the following restrictions are complied with, to wit:
      (1)   No utility all-terrain vehicle shall be operated on any public
highway, street, road or alley between sunset and sunrise unless equipped with
head light, turn signal and brake light;
      (2)   A person operating a utility all-terrain vehicle shall ride only
upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall
not carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on a utility all-
terrain vehicle, unless such utility all-terrain vehicle is designed to carry
more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride upon the permanent
and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon another seat firmly
attached to the utility all-terrain vehicle at the rear of the operator;
      (3)   A person shall ride upon a utility all-terrain vehicle only while
sitting astride the seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the
utility all-terrain vehicle;
      (4)   No person shall operate a utility all-terrain vehicle while
carrying any package, bundle or other article which prevents such person from
keeping both hands of the handlebars;
      (5)   No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride, in a
position that will interfere with the operation or control of the utility all-
terrain vehicle or the view of the operator;
      (6)   Utility all-terrain vehicles are entitled to full use of a lane,
and no motor vehicle shall be driven in such a manner as to deprive any utility
all-terrain vehicle of the full use of a lane. This division (a)(6) shall not
apply to utility all-terrain vehicles operated two abreast in a single lane;
      (7)   The operator of a utility all-terrain vehicle shall not overtake
and pass in the same lane occupied by the vehicle being overtaken;
      (8)   No person shall operate a utility all-terrain vehicle between lanes
of traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles;
      (9)   Utility all-terrain vehicles shall not be operated more than two
abreast in a single lane;
      (10)   Divisions (a)(6) and (a)(7) above shall not apply to the County
Sheriff in the performance of their official duties;
      (11)   No person riding upon a utility all-terrain vehicle shall attach
himself or herself or the utility all-terrain vehicle to any other vehicle on a
roadway;
      (12)   No operator of a utility all-terrain vehicle shall allow any
person to attach himself or herself to the utility all-terrain vehicle for
towing purposes;
      (13)   No person under the age of 18 years old shall ride upon a utility
all-terrain vehicle unless wearing a helmet which complies with minimum
guidelines established by the National Highway traffic Safety Administration
pursuant to the National Traffic Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, being 15
U.S.C. §§ 1381 et seq., for helmets designed for use by motorcyclists and other
motor vehicle users; and
      (14)   No person shall operate or ride as a passenger on a utility all-
terrain vehicle, unless wearing an eye-protective device which shall consist of
protective glasses, goggles or transparent face shield which are shatter-proof
and impact-resistant, except when the utility all-terrain vehicle is equipped
with a widescreen which has a minimum height of ten inches measured from the
center of the handlebars.
   (b)   Golf carts may be operated upon the public streets, roads and alleys
within the corporate limits of the city.
      (1)   No golf cart may be operated upon any public street, road and alley
in the city with a posted speed limit in excess of 30 mph.
      (2)   No golf cart may be operated upon any interstate highway, federal
highway state highway; provided, however, the provisions of this division (b)
(2) shall not prohibit a golf cart from crossing a federal or state highway
within the city limits.
      (3)   All operators of a golf cart upon a highway, street, road and alley
in the city must display thereon affixed to the rear of the golf cart an orange
flag on a six-foot pole.
      (4)   No golf cart shall be operated on any public highway, street, road
or alley within the city limits between sunset and sunrise unless equipped with
headlights, turn signals and brake lights.
      (5)   No person riding upon a golf cart shall attach himself or herself
or the golf cart to another vehicle on a roadway.
      (6)   No operators of a golf cart shall allow any person to attach
himself or herself thereof to the golf cart for towing purposes.
   (c)   Micro utility trucks may be operated upon the public highways,
streets, roads, alleys within the corporate limits of the city.
      (1)   No micro utility truck shall be operated on any public highway,
street, road or alley, unless such truck complies with the equipment
requirements under K.S.A. Chapter 8, Article 17, and amendments thereto.
      (2)   No micro utility truck shall be operated on any interstate highway,
federal highway to state highway; provided, however, that, the provisions of
this subsection shall not prohibit a micro utility truck from crossing a
federal or state highway.
      (3)   No operator of a micro utility truck shall allow any person to
attach himself or herself to the micro utility truck for towing purposes.
   (d)   Work-site utility vehicles may be operated upon the public highway,
streets, roads and alleys within the corporate limits of the city.
      (1)   No work-site utility vehicle shall be operated on any public
highway, street, road or alley between sunset and sunrise unless such vehicle
is equipped with lights as required by law for motorcycles.
      (2)   No work-site utility vehicle shall be operated on any interstate
highway, federal highway or state highway; provided, however, that, the
provisions of this subsection shall not prohibit a work-site utility vehicle
from crossing a federal or state highway.
      (3)   No operator of a work-site utility truck shall allow any person to
attach himself or herself to the work-site utility vehicle for towing purposes.
   (e)   Sport all-terrain vehicles are prohibited and shall not be operated on
any highway, street, road or alley within the city. Violation of this division
(e) is punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not
more than 30 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1411, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 14-224 SAME; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a special purpose vehicle (utility all-terrain
vehicle, golf cart, micro utility truck and work-site utility vehicle) on any
public highway, street, road or alley within the corporate limits of the city
unless such person has a valid driver’s license and must comply with all
restrictions set forth by the state’s Department of Motor Vehicles. Violation
of this section is punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by
imprisonment for not more than six months or by the such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1454, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 14-225 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Every owner of a special purpose vehicle within the city shall provide
liability coverage in accordance with the most recent version of the Standard
Traffic Ordinance, and amendments thereto, and the state’s Automobile Injury
Reparations Act, K.S.A. 40-3101 et seq., and amendments thereto.
   (b)   All provisions of the most recent version of the Standard Traffic
Ordinance and amendments thereto, including penalty provisions, shall be
applicable to all owners and operators of special purpose vehicles.
(Ord. 1355, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 14-226 SAME; PENALTY.
   Unless specifically provided herein, a violation of §
14-225 of this article shall be deemed an ordinance traffic infraction. Upon an
entry of a plea of guilty or no contest or upon being convicted of such
violation, the penalty imposed shall be in accordance with the most recent
version of the Standard Traffic Ordinance, and amendments thereto, or such
other similar provision as the city may then have in effect.
(Ord. 1355, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 14-227 PARKING ON SEVENTH STREET.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on either side of South
Seventh Street, from the south city limits of the city to the south side of
Middle Drive.
(Ord. 1347, passed 8-18-2008)
§ 14-228 SAME; PENALTY.
   Any operator who shall violate the provisions of §
14-227 of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a traffic
infraction and fined an amount not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 1347, passed 8-18-2008)
ARTICLE 3: RESERVED
ARTICLE 4: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
14-401   Hazardous material defined
   
14-402   Same; exceptions
   
14-403   Transportation of hazardous materials
   
14-404   Hazardous materials routes
   
14-405   Parking of vehicles or trailers carrying hazardous materials
   
14-406   Removal of illegally parked trailers
§ 14-401 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DEFINED.
   As used in this article, the term HAZARDOUS MATERIAL shall mean any material
or combination of materials that, because of its quantity, concentration or
physical, chemical, biological or infectious characteristics, poses a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or safety or the
environment if released into the workplace or environment or when improperly
treated, stored, transported or disposed of or otherwise managed.
§ 14-402 SAME; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any container that shall
have a capacity of 150 gallons or less that shall be used for the purpose of
supplying fuel for the vehicle on which it is mounted. These provisions shall
also not apply to vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks containing anhydrous
ammonia or other material primarily used by farmers for fertilizer purposes
when such vehicles, trailers, containers or tanks are parked or housed upon
property designated for the placement of such vehicle, trailer, container or
tank by any farmers cooperative, elevator company or farm supply store located
within the city limits.
§ 14-403 TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Except as provided in §
14-404 of this article, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation
or other entity to transport any hazardous material upon any street, avenue,
highway, road, alley or any other public right-of-way in the city.
§ 14-404 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ROUTES.
   The provisions of §
14-403 of this article shall apply to all streets, avenues, highways, roadways,
alleys or other public right-of-ways within the city, except those specified
within this section where transportation of hazardous materials shall be
allowed. Transportation of hazardous materials shall be allowed upon the
following streets, avenues, highways or roadways:
   (a)   U.S. Highway 183; and
   (b)   U.S. Highway 36.
§ 14-405 PARKING OF VEHICLES OR TRAILERS CARRYING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (b) and (c) below, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to park any vehicle,
trailer or semi-trailer carrying any hazardous material within any city zoning
districts as defined in Chapter XVI of this code.
   (b)   Division (a) above shall not apply to vehicles, trailers or semi-
trailers parked for continuous periods of time not to exceed one hour where
such vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers are parked along those routes
specified in §
14-404 of this article.
   (c)   Division (a) above shall not apply to any vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer carrying any hazardous material where such vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer is not parked within 500 feet of any structure used for human
habitation.
§ 14-406 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED TRAILERS.
   If any vehicle, trailer or a semi-trailer is found parked in violation of
the provisions of this article, the Fire Chief or Assistant Chief or the County
Sheriff may require the owner, operator or lessee of the trailer to move it
within two hours. If such removal is not accomplished on the order of any such
officer, it may be accomplished by any such officer, by any reasonable means,
if the continued presence of the trailer or semi-trailer at its parked location
constitutes, adds to or prevents correction of a situation threatening imminent
injury or damage to persons or property.
CHAPTER XV: UTILITIES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   WATER SERVICE
      
3.   WATER RATES
      
4.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
5.   SEWER USE CHARGES
      
6.   SOLID WASTE
      
7.   WATER DROUGHT/EMERGENCY
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
15-101   Combined system
   
15-102   Funds created; transfer authorized
   
15-103   Use of revenues
   
15-104   Future expansion
   
15-105   Petty Cash Fund
   
15-106   Replenishing fund
   
15-107   Utility Superintendent
   
15-108   Same; duties
   
15-109   City Clerk; cashier
   
15-110   Bad debt charges
   
15-111   Landlord liability
§ 15-101 COMBINED SYSTEM.
   The water and sewerage systems of the city are hereby combined into a single
system to be known as the “municipal utility system”.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-102 FUNDS CREATED; TRANSFER AUTHORIZED.
   All funds of the waterworks and sewerage systems are authorized to be
transferred to the following municipal utility service funds which are hereby
created.
   (a)   All current operating funds of both systems shall be transferred to
the Municipal Utility Operating Fund.
   (b)   All current funds budgeted or being held in trust to pay principal and
interest on bonds and/or notes of the utility system shall be transferred to
the Municipal Utility Bond Fund.
   (c)   All current funds budgeted or being held in trust as a reserve to
finance debt service and/or future utility expansion shall be transferred to
the Municipal Utility Reserve Fund.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-103 USE OF REVENUES.
   All revenues derived from the furnishing of water and sewer service and all
other revenue from whatsoever source shall be set aside and used in the
following priority:
   (a)   Pay current operating and maintenance expenses of the municipal
utility system;
   (b)   Pay principal and interest on bonds and/or notes currently
outstanding;
   (c)   Assigned to the Municipal Utility Reserve or Bond Sinking Fund;
   (d)   Set aside for any other purpose as may be required in a bond agreement
or authorized by the city governing body; and
   (e)   All or part of any surplus over and above these requirements may, at
the discretion of the governing body, be budgeted to be transferred to the
city’s General Fund or any other fund as provided in K.S.A. 12-825d.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-104 FUTURE EXPANSION.
   The governing body of the city covenants that it will levy and collect
sufficient rates, fees and charges for services furnished by the municipal
utility system to meet all requirements of any bond hereinafter issued pursuant
to K.S.A. 12-862 et seq.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-105 PETTY CASH FUND.
   (a)   (1)   There is hereby established a Petty Cash Fund for the municipal
utility system in the amount of $1,000.
      (2)   The fund is established for the purpose of paying postage, freight
and other emergency expenses, including refund of deposits made to secure the
payment of delinquent accounts and interest due thereon.
   (b)   The City Clerk shall be custodian of the petty cash fund which shall
be deposited in a designated depository bank in the city.
   (c)   Payments from the Petty Cash Fund shall be by checks issued on the
basis of an itemized claim certified by the claimant to be true and correct.
Each check shall state clearly the purpose for which it is drawn. The payee of
any such check shall certify thereon over his or her signature that the named
services were rendered, supplies furnished or funds received, as the case may
be.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-825a
§ 15-106 REPLENISHING FUND.
   Whenever the Petty Cash Fund becomes low, the City Clerk shall prepare
vouchers covering such expenses as have been made from the fund and shall
submit the same together with the paid checks to the City Council for audit and
allowance. Warrants shall be issued in the regular manner to the Petty Cash
Fund to restore such fund to its established amount.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-107 UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT.
   There is hereby created the position of Superintendent, who shall have the
direct management of the municipal system under the general supervision of the
City Council.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-108 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Utility Superintendent shall have the following duties; including such
other duties and responsibilities as may be assigned from time to time by the
city governing body. He or she shall:
   (a)   Cause records to be kept as will account for the fiscal and property
affairs of the municipal utility system;
   (b)   Report monthly to the City Council the fiscal, physical and
operational condition and status of the system;
   (c)   Make recommendations for improvement and operation of the system;
   (d)   Employ such permanent and temporary personnel as may be required for
the efficient operation of the system; and
   (e)   Purchase materials and make repairs to insure the continued operation
of the system.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-109 CITY CLERK; CASHIER.
   The City Clerk shall be the cashier of the municipal utility system. Duties
shall include:
   (a)   Maintain all accounts and fiscal records of the utility system;
   (b)   Audit and approve all claims against the utility system;
   (c)   Furnish a monthly financial statement showing receipts and
expenditures, including delinquent accounts, to the governing body;
   (d)   Prepare and collect all utility bills; and
   (e)   Deposit and account for all utility funds.
§ 5-110 BAD DEBT CHARGES.
   All bills for utility services and other charges which are determined to be
bad debt and turned over for outside collection, including the state’s set-off
program, the debtor shall be subject to pay all charges related to the
reasonable costs of collection of any fine/fee/costs of services. This
specifically applies to, but is not limited to, charges for water, sewer,
trash, property code violation fines, parking tickets, Municipal Court fines,
fees, court costs, interest accrued thereon and any other debt due and owing to
the municipality. The costs of collection include, but are not limited to,
court costs, surcharges, attorney fees and collection agency fees; except that,
such costs of collection may not include both attorney fees and collection
agency fees.
(Ord. 1431, passed 12-21-2020)
§ 15-111 LANDLORD LIABILITY.
   (a)   Owners of premises served by utility service under this article shall
be liable for payment of the costs of any utility service account delinquency
arising from service provides to such premises, regardless of whether the
utility service was furnished upon the application and request of the owner or
lessee of the premises. This provision shall also apply when the premises are
leased by or through an agent or other representative of the owner.
   (b)   In the event that a delinquency arises involving leased premises, in
addition to the tenant, the owner or owner’s agent shall be notified in writing
of the delinquency of the lessee by first class regular mail within ten days
after the billing to the lessee becomes delinquent. Notice shall be sufficient
if mailed to the last known address of the owner or owner’s agent known to city
personnel responsible for said mailing, after reasonable inquiry.
   (c)   If utility service is furnished to a leased premises on the
application or request of the lessor of the premises, then all billings for
utilities furnished to such leased premises shall be made directly to the
lessor and the lessor shall be fully liable for the cost of service finished.
   (d)   The city may collect the amount of the unpaid bill for utility
services by any lawful means; provided, however, that, in no event may the city
place a lien on real estate of the lessor.
ARTICLE 2: WATER SERVICE
Section
   
15-201   Definitions
   
15-202   Access to property
   
15-203   Service not guaranteed
   
15-204   Reserved
   
15-205   Responsibility in turning on water
   
15-206   Shutting off mains
   
15-207   Fire pressure
   
15-208   Reserved
   
15-209   Reserved
   
15-210   Reserved
   
15-211   Reserved
   
15-212   Reserved
   
15-213   Application for service
   
15-214   Service connection fee
   
15-215   Items included in connection fee
   
15-216   Service connections
   
15-217   Service pipe to be installed
   
15-218   Character of pipe
   
15-219   Curb, stop and waste cocks
   
15-220   Check valve required
   
15-221   Trenching and backfilling
   
15-222   Separate connections
   
15-223   All water to be metered
   
15-224   Cost of installation borne by the consumer
   
15-225   Extension of water mains
   
15-226   Individual installation outside the city limits
   
15-227   Meters
   
15-228   Meter and curb box free from rubbish
   
15-229   Reading meters
   
15-230   Water account in name of owner
   
15-231   Washing street
   
15-232   Use of water during fire
   
15-233   Taking water without authority
   
15-234   No claim for damages against the city
   
15-235   Watering lawns and the like
   
15-236   Consumer not to furnish water
   
15-237   Water use outside of city
   
15-238   Same; application
   
15-239   Same; must abide by codes
   
15-240   Same; termination
   
15-241   Same; governing body to make determination
   
15-242   Cross-connections prohibited
   
15-243   Protective backflow devices required
   
15-244   Inspection
   
15-245   Protection from contaminants
§ 15-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. The party in whose name the account for municipal utilities system
services is carried by the city.
   CONSUMER. The party using the service.
   OWNER. The legal or equitable holder of the title of record of the real
property connected or to be connected to, the municipal utilities system.
   PARTY. All persons, associations, firms, co-partners, societies or
corporations.
   WATER PIPES OR PIPING. Such water lines as shall be furnished by the owner
to connect to the service installation of the city and to supply water to his
or her premises.
   WATER SERVICE or SERVICE. The supplying and sale of water to customers.
   WATER SERVICE INSTALLATIONS OR SERVICE CONNECTIONS. The necessary pipes,
docks, apparatus and equipment, in place, and necessary to connect water main
and bring water therefrom to the owner’s water pipes.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-202 ACCESS TO PROPERTY.
   The Superintendent and his or her duly authorized assistants shall have free
access at all reasonable hours to any premises where it may be necessary to
ascertain the readings of the meter, location or condition of water pipe or
other fixtures attached to the city waterworks or to shut off or to turn on
water from or to any premises, or from or to any hydrant, pipe or other
attachment, or for the purpose of seeing that the rules and regulations of this
article are observed, or for any purpose that the water superintendent may deem
essential for the operation of the works, prevention of waste or protection of
revenue from the water works. Upon the refusal, neglect or failure of any
customer, consumer or owner to abide by this provision of this article, the
water may be discontinued upon 24 hours’ notice to the customer.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-203 SERVICE NOT GUARANTEED.
   (a)   The city does not guarantee the delivery of water through any of its
mains and connecting services at any time, except only when its mains, pumping
machinery, power and service connections are in good working order and the
supply of water is sufficient for the usual demands of the customers.
   (b)   The city shall not be liable for any damage done or accident
incidental to the lack of pressure or insufficient water supply, or break in
main, or the shutting off of the water supply, or failure of energy used for
pumping, or excessive pressure.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-204 RESERVED.
§ 15-205 RESPONSIBILITY IN TURNING ON WATER.
   In turning on water, the city or the municipal utility system, or the
officers or employees thereof shall not be responsible for any damage that may
occur by reason of improper fixtures, open or improper connections or any other
causes.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-206 SHUTTING OFF MAINS.
   The city hereby reserves the right at without notice, to shut off the water
in mains for the purpose of making extensions or for other purposes. All
consumers having boilers, or hot water tanks within their premises not supplied
by tanks, but depending upon the pressure in the mains to keep them supplied
with water are hereby cautioned against the danger of collapse.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-207 FIRE PRESSURE.
   All customers and consumers of city water are hereby notified that, in case
of fire, the municipal utility system furnishes water in putting out fires and
all mains and lines may be subjected to pressure greater than normal, and that
no claim will be allowed against the city for any leaks or rupture or other
damage or injury caused by such fire pressure.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-208 RESERVED.
§ 15-209 RESERVED.
§ 15-210 RESERVED.
§ 15-211 RESERVED.
§ 15-212 RESERVED.
§ 15-213 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a connection with the city water
system shall apply in writing to the City Clerk giving the exact description of
the property to be served, the connection desired and paying the connection fee
thereof. This request to the municipal utility system for water service shall
constitute an application for sewer service, if available. One service cannot
constitute a service without including all services available. Thereupon, the
City Clerk will issue the permit for such service.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-214 SERVICE CONNECTION FEE.
   (a)   For connecting property of the consumer with the city water system,
the costs will include pipe, all fittings, the meter, meter box, curb stop and
all other necessary parts plus labor at the current rates.
   (b)   On all water lines outside of the city limits on which there is more
than one consumer, there shall be a master meter set at the city limits and one
person shall be responsible for all water running through the master meter.
There shall be an additional charge for the cost of the meter and installation
of such master meter.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-215 ITEMS INCLUDED IN CONNECTION FEE.
   The service connection fee established in §
15-214 of this article shall include the necessary service connection labor,
curb cock and box, meter box and cover, with pipe and fittings to reach the
distance from the main to the curb cock of the consumer. The meter will be
furnished but title to it remains in the city.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-216 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   All taps on water mains shall be driven, street excavations made,
corporation cocks inserted, pipes installed from main to curb and curb cock
installed in an iron box to which the consumer’s service pipe is to be
connected, by city employees only, under the supervision of the Public Works
Supervisor or designated officer.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-217 SERVICE PIPE TO BE INSTALLED.
   City service pipe shall be that part of the water system to the landowners
property line. No one, except regular municipal utility system employees, shall
do any plumbing work on any of the city service pipe or installations.
(Ord. 1087, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 15-218 CHARACTER OF PIPE.
   All city service pipe and fittings shall be PVC plastic minimum schedule 40,
galvanized wrought iron, brass copper or cast iron and shall be laid not less
than four feet below the established grade or as low as street mains.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-219 CURB, STOP AND WASTE COCKS.
   There shall be a curb stop in every service line attached to the mains. Curb
stops shall be furnished with strong and suitable “T” handles and shall be
enclosed in a substantial iron case covered with a tight- fitting iron lid.
There shall be one or more stop and waste cocks attached to every supply pipe
at some point between the curb cock and meter so that the water can be shut off
and the meter and house plumbing drained.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-220 CHECK VALVE REQUIRED.
   Check valves are required on all connections to steam boilers and on any
other connections deemed by the Water Superintendent to require one. Safety and
relief valves shall be placed on all boilers or other steam apparatus connected
with the water systems where the steam pressure may be raised in excess of 40
pounds per square inch.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-221 TRENCHING AND BACKFILLING.
   All excavations made by plumbers in public ground shall not be kept open
longer than absolutely necessary to make the connections required and while
open shall be protected by suitable barriers, guards and lights as provided in
the ordinances of the city. Backfilling shall be thoroughly compacted and left
in a condition satisfactory to the Public Works Supervisor or designated
officer. Where unsatisfactory, the Water Superintendent shall place the same in
satisfactory condition and the cost thereof shall be charged to the plumber and
his or her license suspended unless said sum is paid.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-222 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   Unless special permission is granted in such cases as multiple dwelling
homes and apartments or mobile home parks or other such places, by the
governing body of the city, in which cases the governing body shall determine,
by resolution, the number of connections, or meters required, each premises
shall have a separate and distinct connection. Where permission is granted for
branch service pipes, each branch pipe must have its own curb cock and separate
meter.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-223 ALL WATER TO BE METERED.
   All water furnished by the municipal water plant shall be measured by meters
approved by the city for that purpose.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-224 COST OF INSTALLATION BORNE BY THE CONSUMER.
   The cost of original installation and replacements of all plumbing between
the city service and any service devices maintained by the consumer and all
extensions thereafter made shall be borne entirely by the consumer. Such
service pipes and services shall at all reasonable times be subject to
inspection by the duly authorized officials of the municipal utility system and
repairs found necessary by such official shall be made promptly or the city
will discontinue service until such repairs are made.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-225 EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS.
   The city may extend its water main within or without the city by
construction or purchase, when applications have been made and agreements
entered into by persons along the proposed extension that, in the judgment of
the governing body, will produce a revenue sufficient to pay interest on the
cost of the extension and the operating cost of the service furnished.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-226 INDIVIDUAL INSTALLATION OUTSIDE THE CITY LIMITS.
   Any person, firm or corporation whose premises are outside the city limits
may, after contracting with the city, connect with the municipal water pipes
inside the city limits; provided, a curb cock and meter installed are inside
the city limits. If the meter be installed outside the city limits, then the
meter shall be installed at the city water line and all pipe and service
connections shall be subject to the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-227 METERS.
   Every consumer shall provide a suitable place where a meter can be installed
and the city shall install and maintain the meter, but maintenance shall be at
the expense of the consumer in case of damage by his or her neglect. If, at any
time, the consumer desires to have the meter tested for accuracy, the same
shall be done by the city.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-228 METER AND CURB BOX FREE FROM RUBBISH.
   Each consumer shall keep the meter box and curb cock free from rubbish,
except the meter box may be packed in winter to keep the meter from freezing.
Each consumer shall have his or her meter accessible and unobstructed so it may
be read to determine water used.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-229 READING METERS.
   For the purpose of reading meters, duly authorized employees of the
municipal utility system may legally enter upon any premises at a reasonable
hour.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-230 WATER ACCOUNT IN NAME OF OWNER.
   All water accounts carried on the books of the municipal utility system
shall be when the owner in fee simple of the property served or his or her
authorized agent and the owner shall at all times be liable for the water upon
the premises, whether he or she is occupying the same or not.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-231 WASHING STREET.
   When the water supply is sufficient and upon the petition of persons, firms
or corporations occupying buildings abutting upon any street or part of street
in the city in which such persons, firms or corporations agree to pay for the
water used, the city will supply the water to wash such street or part of
street, and the cost of the water charged to such persons so occupying the
buildings in such portion to be determined by the governing body of the city.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-232 USE OF WATER DURING FIRE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or allow to be used during a
fire, any water from the city water system, except for the purpose of
extinguishing the fire and upon the sounding of the fire alarm, it shall be the
duty of every person to see that all water services are tightly closed and that
no water is used, except in extraordinary cases of emergency during said fire.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-233 TAKING WATER WITHOUT AUTHORITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to take any water
from the city water system except for municipal use, unless the same be drawn
through a meter installed by the city or from any premises not owned by him,
her or them without the permission of the owner thereof.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-234 NO CLAIM FOR DAMAGES AGAINST THE CITY.
   It is stipulated that no claim for damages or loss shall be made against the
city by reason of breaking or leaking or failure of any pipe, pipe fittings,
fire plugs or Fire Department services, or act of omission of Council in
connection with any such items. The acceptance of service shall constitute
acknowledgment of this provision.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-235 WATERING LAWNS AND THE LIKE.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to designate the time and districts in which
the water of the city may be used for watering of lawns, gardens, trees,
shrubs, flowers or other vegetation. Reasonable notice of any such designation
shall be given through radio, television, newspaper or handbills, or any one of
such methods, distributed in the district. Any person violating any such order
shall upon conviction be fined in any sum not more than $25 for each offense.
Each day or part thereof the water is used after notice has been given as
aforesaid in violation of any such order shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-236 CONSUMER NOT TO FURNISH WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any consumer to furnish water to another consumer.
There shall be separate meters for each consumer.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-237 WATER USE OUTSIDE OF CITY.
   The city does hereby reserve the right at all times to refuse to allow any
person the use of city water outside of the city limits.
(Ord. 1167, passed 11-16-1987)
§ 15-238 SAME; APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to use city water outside of the city limits who is not
already using city water shall apply to the governing body of the city for
permission to connect to city water.
(Ord. 1167, passed 11-16-1987)
§ 15-239 SAME; MUST ABIDE BY CODES.
   Any person permitted to use city water outside of the city limits for
primarily residential reasons and purposes shall first agree to abide by and
shall abide by and be governed by and conform to all city ordinances containing
building codes and restrictions, building codes and those zoning restrictions
that may be applicable as determined by the city governing body.
(Ord. 1167, passed 11-16-1987)
§ 15-240 SAME; TERMINATION.
   The city does hereby expressly reserve the right to terminate any person
from using city water outside of the city limits. The city will give 30 days’
prior written notice to the landowner at their last known address where the
water is primarily being used, that the water service is going to be
discontinued and no longer furnished to the property.
(Ord. 1167, passed 11-16-1987)
§ 15-241 SAME; GOVERNING BODY TO MAKE DETERMINATION.
   The governing body of the city shall determine whether or not water being
used outside of the city limits will be used primarily for residential reasons
and purposes.
(Ord. 1167, passed 11-16-1987)
§ 15-242 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintained or
permit to be maintained, any cross-connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the city
may enter the supply and distributing system of the city unless specifically
approved by the state’s Department of Health and Environment and the governing
body.
(Ord. 1191, passed 3-5-1990)
§ 15-243 PROTECTIVE BACKFLOW DEVICES REQUIRED.
   Approved devices to protect against backflow or backsiphonage shall be
installed at all fixtures and equipment where backflow and/or backsiphonage may
occur and where there is a hazard to the potable water supply in that polluted
water or other contaminating materials may enter into the public water supply.
Any situation in which a heavy withdrawal of water, such as a sudden break in
the main or water being used from a fire hydrant, may cause a negative pressure
to develop which could lead to backsiphonage of polluted water into the system
shall be improper and must be protected by approved backflow preventive valves
and systems as determined by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1191, passed 3-5-1990)
§ 15-244 INSPECTION.
   The city’s Public Works Supervisor or designated officer or other designee
of the governing body shall have the right of entry into any building or
premises in the city as frequently as necessary in his or her judgment in order
to ensure that plumbing has been installed in accordance with the laws of the
city so as to prevent the possibility of pollution of the water supply of the
city.
(Ord. 1191, passed 3-5-1990)
§ 15-245 PROTECTION FROM CONTAMINANTS.
   Pursuant to the city’s constitutional home rule authority and K.S.A. 65-
163a, the city, by its Water Superintendent, may refuse to deliver water
through pipes and mains to any premiss where a condition exists which might
lead to the contamination of the public water supply system and it may continue
to refuse the delivery of water to the premises until that condition is
remedied. In addition, the city Public Works Supervisor or designated officer
may terminate water service to any property where the cross connections or
backsiphonage condition creates, in the judgment of the Superintendent, an
emergency danger of contamination to the public water supply.
(Ord. 1191, passed 3-5-1990)
ARTICLE 3: WATER RATES
Section
   
15-301   Water rates
   
15-302   Additional service through one meter
   
15-303   Reserved
   
15-304   Service connection fee; transfer fee; delinquent bill
   
15-305   Payment of bills; penalty
   
15-306   Delinquent accounts
   
15-307   Notice; hearing
   
15-308   Same; finding
   
15-309   Deposit
   
15-310   Forfeiture of deposit
   
15-311   Interruption of service
   
15-312   Property owner responsible
   
15-313   Water connections; delinquencies
§ 15-301 WATER RATES.
   (a)   The following will be the water rates for the city water system:
      (1)   Residential inside city limits.
 
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $26 minimum charge
1,001 - 8,000 gallons per month       $6.05 per thousand gallons
8,001 - 15,000 gallons per month      $6.20 per thousand gallons
15,001 gallons and over per month     $6.30 per thousand gallons
 
      (2)   Business inside city limits.
 
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $28 minimum charge
1,001 - 8,000 gallons per month       $6.55 per thousand gallons
8,001 - 15,000 gallons per month      $6.70 per thousand gallons
15,001 gallons and over per month     $6.80 per thousand gallons
 
      (3)   Treated water for industrial use.
 
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $28 minimum charge
1,001 - 2,000,000 gallons per month   $5.90 per thousand gallons
2,000,001 gallons and over per month  $6.70 per thousand gallons
 
      (4)   Untreated (raw) water use.
 
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $28 minimum charge
1,001 gallons and over per month      $3.40 per thousand gallons
 
      (5)   Residential outside city limits.
 
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $54 minimum charge
1,001 - 8,000 gallons per month       $9.10 per thousand gallons
8,001 - 15,000 gallons per month      $9.30 per thousand gallons
15,001 gallons and over per month     $9.45 per thousand gallons
 
      (6)   Business outside city limits.
 
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $56 minimum charge
1,001 - 8,000 gallons per month       $9.45 per thousand gallons
8,001 - 15,000 gallons per month      $9.70 per thousand gallons
15,001 gallons and over per month     $9.85 per thousand gallons
 
   (b)   In addition to the above charges, there will be added all of those
state taxes and state special assessment taxes mandated to be charged by the
city for the state.
(Res. 352, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 15-302 ADDITIONAL SERVICE THROUGH ONE METER.
   Owners, lessees or occupants of premises, including private homes, apartment
houses and mobile home parks, business buildings, office buildings and all
other premises that furnish extra or additional water service through any one
meter, shall pay $5 per month for each extra water service in addition to all
other charges for water service provided herein. Such owners, lessee or
occupant shall do his or her own collection for any additional water service
from his or her tenants.
(Ord. 1071, passed 6-5-1978; Ord. 1112, passed 7-6-1981)
§ 15-303 RESERVED.
§ 15-304 SERVICE CONNECTION FEE; TRANSFER FEE; DELINQUENT BILL.
   (a)   Service connection fee. A service connection fee for new water and/or
sewer service must be paid prior to service being established. If the customer
has been a previous customer of the city and has not had service disconnected
due to being delinquent on payment for any prior city utility bill, the service
connection fee may be paid on the first billing statement following said
service connection. The service connection fee cannot be transferred from one
customer to another:
      (1)   Water and/or sewer (residential): $25 non-refundable fee; and
      (2)   Water and/or sewer (commercial): $25 non-refundable fee.
   (b)   Transfer and transfer fee. Water users shall be charged a transfer fee
of $25 for each service:
      (1)   Desiring to have their water physically connected/disconnected for
a period of time (i.e., vacation, sprinkler, cleaning); and
      (2)   Moving from one address to another address. A transfer fee will not
be charged when only changing names on the account, such as from a deceased
person’s name to their estate name or between roommates, if there is no water
meter reading required.
   (c)   Service discontinued due to delinquent bill. A $50 non-refundable
service fee along with the full delinquent bill will be paid prior to water
service being reestablished.
(Ord. 1461, passed 5-18-2026)
§ 15-305 PAYMENT OF BILLS; PENALTY.
   All utility bills and accounts payable to the municipal utility system for
water and services in connection therewith, shall be due and payable to the
City Clerk at his or her office on the first day of each month. All such
accounts shall be paid on or before the tenth day of the month they are due and
payable and a penalty of 10% of the amount due shall be added to each bill not
paid as provided, which shall be collected at the time the bill is finally
paid.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-306 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Water, electric or other utility service shall be terminated for non-payment
of service fees or charges as provided in this section and §
15-307 of this article.
§ 15-307 NOTICE; HEARING.
   (a)   A delinquency and termination notice shall be issued by the City Clerk
within five days after the delinquency occurs and mailed to the customer at his
or her last known address, with a copy mailed to the occupant of the premises
if the occupant and the customer are not the same person. The notice shall
state:
      (1)   The amount due, plus penalty;
      (2)   Notice that service will be terminated if the amount due is not
paid within ten days from the date of the notice;
      (3)   Notice that the customer has the right to a hearing before the
designated Hearing Officer; and
      (4)   Notice that the request for a hearing must be in writing and filed
with the City Clerk no later than three days prior to the date for termination
of service.
   (b)   Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the City Clerk shall advise the
customer of the date, time and place of the hearing which shall be held within
three working days following receipt of the request.
§ 15-308 SAME; FINDING.
   Following the hearing, if the Hearing Officer shall find that service should
not be terminated, then notice of such find shall be presented to the Water
Superintendent. If the officer finds that service should be terminated, an
order shall be issued terminating service five days after the date of the
order. The customer shall be notified either in person or by mailing a letter
to his or her last known address by certified mail, return receipt requested.
However, if the order is made at the hearing in the presence of the customer,
then no further notice need be given. The Hearing Officer has a right, for good
cause, to grant an extension, not to exceed ten days, for the termination of
such service.
§ 15-309 DEPOSIT.
   All persons who are not owners of real estate in the city are required to
make a deposit of $70 before water service will be turned on. The deposit shall
bear interest at the minimum rate per annum as mandated by applicable law and
shall be credited on January 1 of each year on the water service bill. When the
deposit is withdrawn, all unpaid charges for water or service shall be first
deducted from the deposit and the balance repaid the user.
(Ord. 1185, passed 6-19-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-822
§ 15-310 FORFEITURE OF DEPOSIT.
   All unclaimed deposits shall be forfeited if unclaimed after three years
from the date service was discontinued.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-822
§ 15-311 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The city hereby reserves the right to discontinue water service to any or
all consumers without notice when the same is necessary in the repair of the
system.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-312 PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   The property owner shall be responsible for all water usage on the property,
whether he or she is occupying the same or not. All unpaid utility charges
shall become a lien against the property if allowed to go uncollected.
(Ord. 1088, passed 6-4-1979)
§ 15-313 WATER CONNECTIONS; DELINQUENCIES.
   There shall be no new water connections for any tenant who leaves a
delinquent water bill at a previous rental property located within the city
limits.
(Ord. 1154, passed 4-1-1985)
ARTICLE 4: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
15-401   Definitions
   
15-402   User charges
   
15-403   Same; designated uses
   
15-404   Same; balance
   
15-405   Injury to sewer system
   
15-406   Permit for connection required
   
15-407   Clogging prohibited
   
15-408   Prohibited discharges
   
15-409   Waste subject to review
   
15-410   Preliminary treatment
   
15-411   Manhole for inspection of industrial wastes
   
15-412   Grease, oil, sand interceptors
   
15-413   Storm water
   
15-414   Tests, measurements
   
15-415   Special contracts, industrial wastes
   
15-416   Private sewage disposal
   
15-417   Right of entry
   
15-418   Connection to public sewer
   
15-419   Discontinuance of private sewer disposal
   
15-420   Failure to connect
   
15-421   Removal, septic tanks, privies
   
15-422   Temporary sanitary facilities; special building permits
   
15-423   Permit required for private sanitary disposal
   
15-424   Compliance with plumbing regulations
   
15-425   Connections outside city limits
   
15-426   Same; application
   
15-427   Same; license to be issued upon Council approval
   
15-428   Same; application
   
15-429   Same; form of license
§ 15-401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 180 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 180
mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   PASS THROUGH DISCHARGE. A discharge which exits the public owned treatment
works (POTW) into waters of the United States in quantities or concentrations
which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other
sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the city’s National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, including an increase in
the magnitude or duration of the violation.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term operation and maintenance includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the city’s treatment works whose
lot, parcel or real estate or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SS (SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or
liquid industrial wastes, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary
sewer systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by the city or furnished and/or installed by a user and approved by
the city.
(Ord. 1095, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 15-402 USER CHARGES.
   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay costs
of annual operation and maintenance including replacement and costs associated
with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the treatment
works which the city may by ordinance designate to be paid by the user charge
system. That portion of the total user charge which is designated for operation
and maintenance including replacement of the treatment works shall be
established by this article.
§ 15-403 SAME; DESIGNATED USES.
   The portion of the total user charge collected which is designated for
operation and maintenance including replacement purposes as established in §
15-404 of this article, shall be credited to two primary accounts as follows:
   (a)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying operation
and maintenance costs of the treatment works (Operation and Equipment Account);
and
   (b)   An account designated for the specific purpose of ensuring replacement
needs over the useful life of the treatment works (Equipment Reserve Account).
Credits to the Equipment Reserve Account shall be made as the City Council in
its discretion deems necessary.
(Ord. 1440, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 15-404 SAME; BALANCE.
   (a)   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation and maintenance account and
the replacement account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts.
   (b)   Monies which have been transferred from other sources to meet
temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund shall be
returned to their respective accounts upon appropriate adjustment of the user
charge rates for operation, maintenance and replacement.
   (c)   The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such that the transferred
monies will be returned to their respective accounts within the fiscal year
following the fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
(Ord. 1095, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 15-405 INJURY TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person maliciously, willfully or
negligently to break, damage, destroy, deface, tamper with or carry away any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the city sewer lines or
sewage treatment works of the city.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-406 PERMIT FOR CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to uncover, open or to connect to or to
use any public sanitary sewer lateral or main in the city without obtaining a
permit for such connection or use, from the municipal utility system.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-407 CLOGGING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw or deposit in, or to
permit the discharge into any public sewer, manhole, drain, catch basins or
water closet or sink, any dead animal, offal, un-ground garbage or discharge
any fish, fruit or vegetable waste or other solid matters or materials or
obstruction of any kind, whatever such nature, or in such quantities as shall
clog, obstruct or fill such public sewer, drain or catch basins, or which shall
interfere with or prevent the effective use or operation thereof.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-408 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Except as may hereinafter be provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged, any of the following wastes, water, liquids or ingredients into
the public sewer system of the city:
   (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65.55°C);
   (b)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million,
by weight, of fat, oil or grease;
   (c)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil and other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (d)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (e)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
   (f)   Any waters or waste having a pH (the logarithm of the reciprocal of
weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution) lower than 5.5 or
higher than 9.0 or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
   (g)   Any waste waters containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (h)   Any waters or waste containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage treatment plan;
   (i)   Any noxious or malodorous substance capable or creating a public
nuisance; and
   (j)   Any pass through discharge which exits the public owned treatment
works (POTW) into waters of the United States in quantities or concentrations
which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other
sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the city’s National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, including an increase in
the magnitude or duration of the violation.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-409 WASTE SUBJECT TO REVIEW.
   The Public Works Supervisor or designated officer shall review and approve
the admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes which:
   (a)   Have a five-day biochemical oxygen demand (the quality of oxygen
utilized in biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
proceed in five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight, greater
than 300 parts per million weight;
   (b)   Contain more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids;
   (c)   Contain any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in §
15-408 of this article; or
   (d)   Have an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily sewage
flow of the city.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-410 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   (a)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Public Works Supervisor or
designated officer, the owner shall provide, at his or her expense, such
preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million and
the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (2)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided for in §
15-408 of this article; or
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharges of such waters or
wastes.
   (b)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for approval by
the City Superintendent, and the Division of Sanitation, the State Board of
Health and Environment. No construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until the approvals are obtained in writing. Where preliminary treatment
facilities are provided for any wastes or waters, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her
expense.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-411 MANHOLE FOR INSPECTION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   When required by the Public Works Supervisor or designated officer, the
owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes
shall install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
required shall be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed in
accordance with the plans approved by the Utility Superintendent. The manhole
shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be maintained
by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-412 GREASE, OIL, SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   All garages, filling stations, stables, barns and other places having a wash
rack, connected with and draining into the sewer system of the city, shall be
provided with a proper and sufficient sand and mud interceptor or catch basin
with at least 48 cubic feet of space for sediment below the inlet and outlet
pipes. All such interceptors for garages, filling stations, stables, barns and
other places must be properly baffled or otherwise arranged or equipped to
prevent oils, gasoline, greases, hair, mud, sand or silt from entering or
draining into the building sewer or sewer system and under no circumstances or
conditions shall any of the liquids or substances be permitted to drain or
enter into the sewer. All of the aforesaid interceptors shall be constructed
and built in accordance with plans and requirements as may be set out by the
Utility Superintendent. Each such interceptor shall be so located as to be
easily accessible for inspection and cleaning and shall be connected to the
building sewer drain through a trap installed and located in accordance with
the city plumbing regulations for traps in soil pipes. Each such interceptor
shall be cleaned and maintained by the occupant of the premises, at his or her
own expense, and operated and cleaned as often as necessary to be continuously
effective and in no event less often than 30 days.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-413 STORM WATER.
   Storm water from roofs, paved areas, yards, courts, air-conditioning units
and foundation drains and all other unpolluted drainage or industrial process
waters, shall not be permitted to drain or run into the sanitary sewers, but
shall drain or be discharged into storm sewers or to available natural
watercourses or outlets.
(Ord. 1072, passed 6-5-1978)
§ 15-414 TESTS, MEASUREMENTS.
   All tests, measurements and analysis of the characteristics of sewage and
other waste liquids referred to in this article shall be made in accordance
with standard methods for the examination of water and sewage. Such tests shall
be taken at the manhole provided by § 18-411 of this article or by suitable
samples taken at such manhole. If no control manhole is otherwise available,
tests may be taken at the nearest downstream manhole in the city sewer below
the point of connection to the building sewer.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-415 SPECIAL CONTRACTS, INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to deny or limit the authority of the city
to enter into special agreements with any class or category of industrial
concerns to dispose of or treat wastes or sewage of unusual strength or
characteristics upon the basis of special charges for treatment and disposal of
such wastes. The city further reserves the right granted by the laws of the
state to charge and collect service fees for the treatment and disposal of all
sewage and wastes lawfully discharged into the city sewage disposal system by
any user thereof.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 14-567
§ 15-416 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, dispose or deposit
any sewage, polluted liquid wastes or solids or any human excrement or night
soil, into or upon any street, alley or public grounds in the city or to
dispose of or deposit the same upon any private premises in the city.
   (b)   It shall be further unlawful to discharge any sewage, or human or
animal excrement into any abandoned well, pit or other excavation in the city.
No privy vault, cesspool, sink or reservoir, except the same be water-tight,
shall be lawfully permitted or located within 50 feet of any well, spring or
source of water used for drinking or culinary purposes, nor shall the same
empty into, or discharge or flow, into any ditch, drain or stream in the city.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-417 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of all health and building officers of the city and the
County Sheriff to enforce the provisions of this article and report violations
thereof to the city governing body. Any such officer or the County Sheriff is
authorized to enter upon any premises in the city at any reasonable hour, to
perform any duty imposed upon such officer by this article or other ordinances
of the city.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-418 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   All persons and property owners owning dwelling houses or buildings within
the city, which buildings or building are or shall be located near a public
sewer or in a block within any such sewer district in the city through which a
sewer extends, shall make such connections with the sewer system of the city
for the purpose of disposing of all substances from any such building affecting
the public health which may be lawfully and properly disposed of by means of
such sewer.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-419 DISCONTINUANCE OF PRIVATE SEWER DISPOSAL.
   (a)   Within four months after any sewer shall be available to any premises
under the conditions of §
15-418 of this article, it shall be the duty of all persons and property owners
to connect, or cause to be connected to such sewer all dwelling houses or
buildings in which a system of sanitary plumbing shall have been installed.
   (b)   It shall be thereafter be unlawful for any such persons or person to
dispose of sewage by means of a private sewage disposal system not connected to
the public sewer.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-420 FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   If any person or persons shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the
conditions of any notice directed to him, her or them under the foregoing
provisions hereof, within ten days, the City Council may direct the Public
Works Supervisor or designated officer to advertise for bids for construction
and making of the sewer connections and plumbing required herein and to
contract with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders to make such connection.
Thereafter, the City Council shall, by ordinance, assess the costs of such work
and the expenses thereof, including any fees or charges required for plumbing
permits, inspections or connections to the sewer, against the property and
premises so connected and certify same to the County Clerk for collection and
payment as other assessments are certified. Such assessment may be paid in
equal installments with interest at 6% over a period of three years.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-421 REMOVAL, SEPTIC TANKS, PRIVIES.
   (a)   Upon the connection of any house or other building to the city
sanitary sewer system, it shall be the duty of the owner or occupants of such
premises to remove all sources of filth from such premises or to cover, bury or
fill all pet privies, cesspools or septic tanks and to discontinue use of the
same.
   (b)   The building contractor shall remove all temporary sanitary facilities
and return the ground on which located to a sanitary clean condition upon
completion of the building works.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-422 TEMPORARY SANITARY FACILITIES; SPECIAL BUILDING PERMITS.
   (a)   When permits are issued by the city for the construction or location
of any dwelling house or building in the city for human occupancy and a
sanitary sewer lateral is not immediately available for connection of the
building sewer drain, the Utility Superintendent may authorize the construction
of temporary facilities, either a septic tank system or sanitary privy, under
the conditions of §
15-419 of this article, for such occupancy which shall be valid until sanitary
facilities are available.
   (b)   In all cases, the building permit shall authorize the construction of
temporary privies for use of workers at such place until facilities connected
to the sanitary sewer are available. All privy buildings shall be kept in a
clean condition at all times.
§ 15-423 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PRIVATE SANITARY DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to construct or locate any
structure or works on his or her premises for the disposal of human excrete or
body wastes without a permit from the Utility Superintendent. No permit may be
issued for any such structure or works within a block where connections to the
public sewer are available to such persons. The city may adopt and promulgate
standard plans and specifications for the construction of septic tanks and
privies which shall be required for the construction of such works or
structures as a condition of the permit authorizing the same. Such plans and
specifications shall be based upon the recommendations and health standards of
the state’s Department of Health and Environment or some standard plumbing code
authority. The Public Works Supervisor or designated officer shall supervise
and inspect the construction of such structures and works and approve the same
upon completion. Nothing herein shall be construed to deny the authority of the
state’s Department of Health and Environment to abate any septic tank, cesspool
or privy in the city as a nuisance.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-424 COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING REGULATIONS.
   The notice to any person or persons given by the city shall require that the
connection to the sewer system shall comply with the plumbing regulations of
the city for construction of plumbing and installation of plumbing fixtures
within buildings and the laying of building sewer drains to the public sewer.
For purposes of this article, the notice may require that not less than the
following plumbing fixtures be connected to the building soil pipe; one kitchen
sink or slop sink, one wash basin or lavatory, one bathtub or shower stall and
one water closet; provided that, all such installations shall be made upon an
application, the issuance of a permit and the payment of inspection and permit
fees as in other cases.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-425 CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   This article shall apply equally to all persons and premises, including
those, if any, now connected to the city’s sewer system, which premises are
beyond the city limits. The premises shall be subject to the same inspection as
provided for premises within the city.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-426 SAME; APPLICATION.
   The owners or owner of any premises situated outside of, but adjacent to,
the city, upon proving themselves to be the owners of premises and upon
compliance with provisions, restrictions and limitations of the code and all
other ordinances of the city pertaining to building construction, plumbing and
electrical installation and to public health, safety and sanitation may make
application as a concession but not as a matter of right for a license to
connect the premises to the city’s sewer system and to discharge usual and
ordinary sewage from the premises to the sewer system.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-427 SAME; LICENSE TO BE ISSUED UPON COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   The City Clerk upon receiving such application shall present it to the
governing body at the next regular meeting. The governing body, if it finds
that all requirements hereof have been complied with and that the sewer to
which the applicant desires to connect is not and will not become overloaded
and that the sewage from such premises can be disposed of without expense to
the city in excess of the uniform connection fees herein established and annual
license fees herein fixed may direct the City Clerk to issue the license
applied for. The licensee shall pay all costs of lines, pipes, connections,
fixtures and other charges for making the sewer connection.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-428 SAME; APPLICATION.
   (a)   Any such owner or owners desiring to make such sewer connection shall
apply in writing to the City Clerk. Such application shall state:
      (1)   The legal description of the premises;
      (2)   The name and addresses of the legal, equitable and beneficial
owners of the premises;
      (3)   The number and kind of sewer intake openings to be connected;
      (4)   The exact point of proposed connection; and
      (5)   That the applicants will comply with this and all other present and
future ordinances of the city, the same as though such premises were within the
city.
   (b)   The application shall be signed by all owners of the premises.
(Ord. 1037, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-429 SAME; FORM OF LICENSE.
   The license certificate to be issued hereunder shall be in substantially the
following form:
 
Upon the application of (reciting applicant’s name or names) the City of
Phillipsburg, Kansas, suffers applicant to connect the following described
premises ( Legal Description ) to the city’s sewer.
 
 
ARTICLE 5: SEWER USE CHARGES
Section
   
15-501   Connection charge
   
15-502   Same; outside city
   
15-503   User charges
   
15-504   Additional charges
   
15-505   Annual review
   
15-506   Same; notice to user
   
15-507   Bills; when due
   
15-508   Delinquent accounts
   
15-509   Same; lien against property
§ 15-501 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (a)   No property within the city limits shall be connected to a sanitary
sewer constructed until a sewer connection charge of $25 has been paid.
   (b)   In addition to division (a) above, no property within the city limits
shall be connected to the East Sewer Extension Project on or after 12-1-1996,
until the special assessment fee for:
      (1)   Residential use property in the amount of $5,000 and bond interests
has been paid; or
      (2)   Commercial use property in the amount of $10,000 and bond interest
has been paid.
(Ord. 1439, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 15-502 SAME; OUTSIDE CITY.
   No property located outside the city shall be permitted to connect to any
city sewer until a sewer connection fee equal to one and one-half times the
connection fee inside the city has been paid.
§ 15-503 USER CHARGES.
   Appropriate service charges, based on residency in volume you use, shall be
set by resolution or policy of the governing body.
§ 15-504 ADDITIONAL CHARGES.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or sludge from the sewage treatment works; or
any user discharging any substance which singly or by interaction with other
substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of operation, maintenance
or replacement of the treatment works, shall be billed for such increased
costs. The charge to be made shall be determined by the city governing body
upon recommendation of the Utility Superintendent.
(Ord. 1095, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 15-505 ANNUAL REVIEW.
   The city will review user charges at least annually and will revise user
rates as necessary to ensure the system generates adequate revenues to pay the
costs of operation and maintenance, including replacement. Such review shall
insure that the distribution of costs is fairly proportioned among the user
classes.
(Ord. 1095, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 15-506 SAME; NOTICE TO USER.
   Each user will be notified at least annually, in conjunction with a regular
bill of the rate being charged for operations, maintenance, including
replacement of the treatment works.
(Ord. 1095, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 15-507 BILLS; WHEN DUE.
   Sewer service charges shall be billed monthly along with regular water
bills. All bills are due and payable by the first day of each month. Failure to
pay the bill by the tenth day of the month will result in a penalty being added
as provided in §
15-305  of this article.
§ 15-508 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   In the event a sewer service charge is not paid by the tenth day of the
month in which it becomes due, the city may terminate water service after
notice and hearing as provided in §§
15-306  and
15-307  of this code of ordinances.
§ 15-509 SAME; LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY.
   In lieu of terminating sewer service as provided in §
15-508  of this article, the amount of any unpaid sewer service charges may be
certified to the County Clerk, placed upon the tax roll and collected in like
manner as other taxes.
ARTICLE 6: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
15-601   Definitions
   
15-602   Refuse receptacles
   
15-603   Same; regulations
   
15-604   Unauthorized disposal
   
15-605   Interference with receptacles prohibited
   
15-606   Transportation of solid waste
   
15-607   Collection of solid waste
   
15-608   Enter private premises
   
15-609   Frequency of collection
   
15-610   Disposition of waste
   
15-611   Rocks, dirt, and construction rubble and large volumes
   
15-612   Reserved
   
15-613   Solid waste charges
   
15-614   Billing
   
15-615   Delinquent accounts
   
15-616   Prohibited practices
   
15-617   Accumulation of trash unlawful
§ 15-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BULKY WASTE. Large hems of refuse including, but not limited to, appliances,
furniture, tires, large auto parts, tree branches exceeding four inches in
diameter and stumps.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. All solid waste emanating from establishments engaged in
business including, but not limited to, stores, markets, office buildings,
restaurants, shopping centers, theaters, hospitals, governments and nursing
homes.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTES. Building materials and rubble resulting
from construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations on houses,
commercial buildings or other structures and pavements.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any enclosure, building or portion thereof occupied by one or
more persons for and as living quarters.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
processing, storage, packaging, preparation, sale, cooking and serving of meat,
produce and other foods and shall include unclean containers.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Solid or liquid wastes which require special handling and
disposal, means pesticides, acids, caustics, pathological wastes, radioactive
materials, flammable or explosive materials, oils and solvents and similar
chemicals and materials and shall include containers and materials that have
been contaminated with hazardous waste.
   MULTI-FAMILY UNIT. Any structure containing more than four individual
dwelling units.
   REFUSE. Unwanted and discarded materials resulting from commercial,
industrial and agriculture operations and from normal community activities.
REFUSE includes in part the following: garbage, rubbish, ashes and other
residue; street refuse, dead animals, animal waste, abandoned vehicles,
agriculture, commercial and industrial waste, commercial and demolition waste,
sewage treatment residue; provided, however, that, the term REFUSE does not
include any uncontaminated earth, stone or materials.
   RESIDENTIAL. Any structure containing four or less dwelling units, rooming
house having no more than four persons in addition to the family of the owner
of operator and mobile homes.
   SANITARY LANDFILL OPERATION. A method of disposing of solid wastes on land
without creating nuisances or hazards to the public health or safety by
confining refuse to the smallest practical area, compacting it to the smallest
practical volume by employing power equipment and covering with a layer of six
inches of compacted earth at the conclusion of each day’s operation.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse and other discarded materials including, but
not limited to, solid waste materials resulting from industrial, commercial and
domestic activities; all non-liquid garbage, rubbish and trash.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL AREA. Also referred herein as DISPOSAL AREA or DISPOSAL
SITE. Any area used for the disposal of refuse from more than one residential
premises or one or more commercial, industrial, manufacturing or municipal
operation.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The entire process of storage, collection,
transportation, processing and disposal of solid wastes by any person engaging
in such process as a business or any city authority, county or any combination
thereof.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-602 REFUSE RECEPTACLES.
   (a)   Poly-kart refuse receptacles will be provided by the city.
   (b)   Business firms shall, if required, have an approved shielded trash
receptacle other than the city- provided receptacle. Larger receptacles for
business will be purchased by the user.
§ 15-603 SAME; REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No refuse or waste resulting from the repair, remodeling or demolition
of buildings, sidewalks or other structures shall be deposited for collection
in the refuse containers.
   (b)   Garbage must be drained and wrapped in paper prior to being deposited
in the refuse container.
   (c)   Toxic and hazardous wastes shall be stored in a manner approved by the
Utility Superintendent or his or her designated representative.
   (d)   Refuse and receptacles are hereby prohibited in front yards or city
right-of-way of any resident within the city, except on the day of the pick-up
or shielded by an approved storage container. A front yard shall be defined as
that space extending across the front of a lot between the side yard lines and
being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and the main
building or any projection thereof other than steps, unenclosed balconies and
unenclosed porches.
   (e)   Refuse and receptacles are hereby prohibited in any residential side
yard or backyard or city right-of-way which abuts upon any street of the city,
except on the day of pick-up or shielded by an approved storage container.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-7-1976; Ord. 1220, passed 5-16-1994)
§ 15-604 UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL.
   (a)   No person shall throw or permit anyone in his or her employ to throw
into any street, alley or other public place any solid waste, except as in this
article provided.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons or business to allow any
waste to accumulate so as to constitute a nuisance or fire hazard.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-605 INTERFERENCE WITH RECEPTACLES PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall interfere with solid waste receptacles or their
contents in any manner, nor remove the same, nor remove any of its contents
thereof, nor place anything therein.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-606 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE.
   All solid waste hauled by any person shall be contained, tied or enclosed so
that leaking, spilling or blowing are prevented. In the event of any spillage,
the person shall immediately clean up the litter. Nothing herein provided shall
prevent any resident of the city from hauling his or her residential refuse,
rubbish and or garbage to the county sanitary landfill; provided, the same
shall be hauled as herein provided and within the operating hours of the
sanitary landfill. Such right, however, shall not relieve the resident of
complying with all sections of this article including the payment of the
municipal utility system charge for such service.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-607 COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE.
   The city shall provide for the collection of all solid wastes in the city
which can be handled by the city’s solid waste compactor truck.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-608 ENTER PRIVATE PREMISES.
   Solid waste personnel employed by the city are hereby authorized to enter in
and upon private property for the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom
as required by this article.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-609 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   Solid waste in residential areas shall be collected once each week. All
commercial waste shall be collected at intervals as may be fixed by the owner
and the city’s authorized representative, but in no case less than once per
week.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-610 DISPOSITION OF WASTE.
   All solid waste shall be disposed of in the county sanitary landfill.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-611 ROCKS, DIRT AND CONSTRUCTION RUBBLE AND LARGE VOLUMES.
   Rocks, dirt, concrete and construction rubble shall be disposed of at the
county sanitary landfill. Large volumes of any item, over and above normal
residential waste, shall be disposed of in the county sanitary landfill. All
the above items and categories shall bear a sanitary landfill charge and will
not be received under normal residential sanitary utility charges, this solid
waste being over and above, and of a different nature than residential waste,
additional charges shall be set by the county sanitary landfill.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-7-1976)
§ 15-612 RESERVED.
§ 15-613 SOLID WASTE CHARGES.
   (a)   The solid waste charges shall be levied against each householder,
single dwelling unit, multi-family unit, business, institution, user and
industry in the city each month for the collection and disposition of solid
waste. The failure to pay shall be cause for discontinuing all collections and
solid waste services and the city reserves the right to discontinue any solid
waste service to any customer upon the failure to pay the full charges for the
solid waste services.
   (b)   The following will be the solid waste disposal rates when collected by
the city:
 
                                    $21.50 per month for 1 kart 1 pickup per
                                    week. Each additional kart will be
                                    $10.75 per month for 1 pickup per week.
Combination residential unit with   Additional pickups per week will be at
commercial unit - kart              the same rates multiplied by the number
                                    of pickups. There will be no per unit
                                    charge. A minimum of 1 kart is required
                                    for each water meter when occupied.
                                    $53.50 per dumpster each month for 1
                                    pickup per week. Additional pickups per
Combination residential unit with   week will be at the same rate multiplied
commercial unit - 2.5 yard dumpster by the number of pickups. A minimum of 1
                                    dumpster is required for each water
                                    meter when occupied.
                                    $53.50 per dumpster per month for 1
                                    pickup per week. Additional pickups per
Commercial buildings - 2.5 yard     week will be at the same rate multiplied
dumpster                            by the number of pickups. A minimum of 1
                                    dumpster is required for each water
                                    meter when occupied.
                                    $21.50 per month for 1 kart 1 pickup per
                                    week. Each additional kart will be
                                    $10.75 per month for 1 pickup per week.
Commercial buildings - kart         Additional pickups per week will be at
                                    the same rates multiplied by the number
                                    of pickups. There will be no per unit
                                    charge. A minimum of 1 kart is required
                                    for each water meter when occupied.
                                    $53.50 per month per dumpster for 1
Residential buildings - 2.5 yard    pickup per week. There will be no per
dumpster                            unit charge. A minimum of 1 dumpster is
                                    required for each water meter when
                                    occupied.
                                    $21.50 per month for 1 kart with 1
                                    pickup per week. Each additional kart
Residential buildings - kart        will be $10.75 per month for 1 pickup
                                    per week. There will be no per unit
                                    charge. A minimum of 1 kart is required
                                    for each water meter when occupied.
                                    All solid waste collection outside the
Solid waste outside city limits     corporate limits of the city will be
                                    charged at 1.5 times the rate charged
                                    inside the city limits.
 
(Res. 353, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 15-614 BILLING.
   (a)   Bills for solid waste collection shall be rendered monthly and shall
be a part of the utility bills.
   (b)   The landlord of any premises shall be responsible for payment for
service provided to that premises if the tenant does not pay for the service.
   (c)   Delinquent refuse bills shall carry the same due dates, grace periods
and penalties as water bills.
§ 15-615 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Any solid waste bill which remains unpaid for a period of 60 days after the
date upon which it became due shall be certified to the County Clerk as a lien
upon the real property placed upon the tax roll and collected in the same
manner as other taxes.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-7-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 65-3410
§ 15-616 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to:
   (a)   Deposit solid waste in any container other than that owned, leased or
provided for him or her or under his or her control without written consent of
such owner and, or with the intent of avoiding payment of the solid waste
charge;
   (b)   Interfere in any manner with employees of the city in the collection
of solid waste;
   (c)   Burn solid waste unless a variance has been granted according to §
7-204  of this code of ordinances;
   (d)   Dispose of solid waste in an unapproved site; and
   (e)   Any person to transport solid waste in any manner that will allow
leaking, spilling or blowing.
§ 15-617 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH UNLAWFUL.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow to accumulate on any lot
or in any part of any building, or outside and adjacent to any building, or in
any alley, sidewalk, street or premises any material of any kind which is
unsightly, unhealthy or unsafe. Such material shall include, without
limitation, rubbish, trash, garbage, wastepaper, boxes, packing material,
equipment, supplies, machinery or vehicles and parts thereof, household
furniture, appliances, building materials, weeds, dead and dying trees or
shrubs, and similar material of any kind.
   (b)   The restriction in this section shall not apply to material stored
temporarily in approved solid waste receptacles upon private or public property
for authorized collection as provided in this article.
ARTICLE 7: WATER DROUGHT/EMERGENCY
Section
   
15-701   Purpose
   
15-702   Definitions
   
15-703   Water conservation program
   
15-704   Voluntary conservation measures
   
15-705   Mandatory conservation measures
   
15-706   Emergency water rates
   
15-707   Regulations
   
15-708   Violations, disconnections and penalties
   
15-709   Emergency termination
   
15-710   Severability
§ 15-701 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to provide for a progressive water supply
conservation program, including the declaration of a water supply watch,
warning or emergency and the implementation of voluntary and mandatory water
conservation measures throughout the city in the event such a watch, warning or
emergency is declared by the governing body of the city.
(Ord. 1364, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 15-702 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CLASSES OF WATER USAGE. The following classes of uses of water are
established for the purposes of this article.
      (1)   CLASS 1. Water used for outdoor watering; either public or private,
for gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields,
swimming pools or other recreational areas; or the washing of motor vehicles,
boats, trailers or the exterior of any building or structure.
      (2)   CLASS 2. Water used for any commercial, agricultural or industrial
purposes, except water actually necessary to maintain the health and personal
hygiene of bona fide employees of such businesses or interests while such
employees are engaged in the performance of their duties at their place of
employment.
      (3)   CLASS 3. Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in
either Class 1 or 2.
      (4)   CLASS 4. Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives
of domestic livestock pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the city’s
water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in
the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a street, roadway or other surface
intended for vehicle driving purposes and/or any gutter, ditch or other surface
drain; or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   WATER. Water available to the city for treatment by virtue of the city’s
water rights, water supply, water supply contracts or any treated water
introduced by the city into its water distribution system, including water
offered for sale at any coin-operated site.
(Ord. 1364, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 15-703 WATER CONSERVATION PROGRAM.
   In the event that the governing body of the city or the city’s designated
official determines that the city’s water supply may be in subject to a
shortage in supply or the governing body of the city determines there is need
for conservation of city’s water resources for any reason, the city may begin
the progressive three-stage water conservation program by declaring a water
watch as described in division (a) below or, in times of need and/or duress,
the governing body of the city may choose to declare any section of the program
described in this section in effect at any time.
   (a)   Declaration of water watch. Whenever the governing body of the city
finds that conditions indicate that the probability of a drought or some other
condition causing a major water supply shortage is rising, it shall be
empowered to declare, by resolution, that a water watch exists and that it
shall take steps to inform the public and ask for voluntary reductions in water
use. Such a watch shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by
resolution of the governing body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the
existence and end of a water watch shall be effective upon their publication in
the official city newspaper.
   (b)   Declaration of water warning. Whenever the governing body of the city
finds that drought conditions or some other condition causing a major water
supply shortage are present and supplies are starting to decline, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water warning exists and that it will
recommend restrictions on non-essential uses during the period of warning. Such
a warning shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the
governing body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the beginning and
ending of the water warning shall be effective upon their publication in the
official city newspaper. Pursuant to the approval of the Chief Engineer,
Division of Water Resources, State Department of Agriculture, the recommended
restrictions on non-essential uses may be extended to private wells within the
city limits.
   (c)   Declaration of water emergency. Whenever the governing body of the
city finds that an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water supply
needed for essential uses, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that
a water supply emergency exists and that it will impose mandatory restrictions
on water use during the period of the emergency. Such an emergency shall be
deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the governing body to
have ended. The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water supply
emergency shall be effective upon their publication in the official city
newspaper. Pursuant to the approval of the Chief Engineer, Division of Water
Resources, State Department of Agriculture, the mandatory restrictions on water
use may be extended to private wells within the city limits.
(Ord. 1364, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 15-704 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water watch or water warning as provided in §
15-703 (a) or (b) of this article, the Mayor, City Clerk or Public Works
Supervisor is authorized to call on all water consumers to employ voluntary
water conservation measures to limit or eliminate non-essential water uses
including, but not limited to, limitations on the following uses:
   (a)   Class 1 uses of water; and
   (b)   Waste of water.
(Ord. 1364, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 15-705 MANDATORY CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-703 (c) of this article, the Mayor, the City Clerk, Public Works Supervisor
or authorized city official is also authorized to implement certain mandatory
water conservation measures, including, but not limited to, the following
conservation measures:
   (a)   Suspension of new connections to the city’s water distribution system,
except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to agreements
entered into by the city prior to the effective date of the declaration of the
emergency;
   (b)   Restrictions on the uses of water in one or more classes of water use
as described in §
15-702 (d) of this article, wholly or in part;
   (c)   Restrictions on the sales of water at coin-operated facilities or
sites;
   (d)   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions;
   (e)   Complete or partial bans on the waste of water; and
   (f)   Any combination of the measures in divisions (a) through (e) above as
the governing body of the city or authorized city official may deem appropriate
and/or necessary.
(Ord. 1364, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 15-706 EMERGENCY WATER RATES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in §
15-703 (c) of this article, the governing body of the city shall have the power
to adopt emergency water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water
supplies. Such emergency rates may provide for, but are not limited to:
   (a)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of use (increasing block
rates);
   (b)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit rate);
or
   (c)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess
demand surcharge).
(Ord. 1364, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 15-707 REGULATIONS.
   (a)   During the effective period of any water supply emergency as provided
for in §
15-703 (c) of this article, the Mayor, City Clerk, Public Works Supervisor or
other authorized city official is empowered to promulgate such regulations as
may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this article, any water supply
emergency resolution or emergency water rate ordinance.
   (b)   Such regulations shall be subject to the approval of the governing
body at its next regular or special meeting.
(Ord. 1364, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 15-708 VIOLATIONS, DISCONNECTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   (1)   If the Mayor, City Clerk, Public Works Supervisor or other
authorized city official or officials charged with implementation and
enforcement of this article or a water supply emergency resolution learn of any
violation of any water use restrictions imposed pursuant to §§
15-705  or
15-707  of this article, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed to
the property where the violation occurred and the customer of record and/or any
other person known to the city to be responsible for the violation and/or the
correction of said violation shall be provided with either actual or mailed
notice. Said notice shall describe the violation(s) and order that the noted
violation(s) be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within such specified
time as the city determines is reasonable for such correction, cure or
abatement under the circumstances. In the event the order is not cured within
the time period given in the notice, the city may terminate water service to
the customer subject to the following procedures.
         (A)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation(s) and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the city governing body or
a city official designated as a Hearing Officer by the city governing body.
         (B)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, the customer shall be given a full opportunity to be heard by the
city governing body or the city official designated as a Hearing Officer by the
city governing body before termination is ordered.
      (2)   The city governing body or the city official designated as a
Hearing Officer by the city governing body shall make findings of fact and
order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (b)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to division (a). In the event of subsequent violations, the
reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second reconnection and $300 for any
subsequent additional reconnections within a one-year period.
   (c)   (1)   Violations of this article shall be a municipal offense and may
be prosecuted in Municipal Court. Any person so charged and found guilty in
Municipal Court of violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of
a municipal offense. Each calendar day in which a violation is observed shall
constitute a separate offense. The penalty for an initial violation shall be a
mandatory fine of $100. In addition, such customer may be required by the Court
to serve a definite term of confinement in the city or county jail which shall
be fixed by the Court and which shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a
second or subsequent conviction shall be a mandatory fine of $200.
      (2)   In addition, such customer shall serve a definite term of
confinement in the city or county jail which shall be fixed by the Court and
which shall not exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 1364, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 15-709 EMERGENCY TERMINATION.
   Nothing in this article shall limit the ability of any properly authorized
city official from terminating the supply of water to any or all customers upon
the determination of such city official that emergency termination of water
service is required to protect the health and safety of the public or for any
other emergency as required or authorized by ordinance or as deemed necessary
of the city by such city official or the governing body of the city.
(Ord. 1364, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 15-710 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this article is declared unconstitutional, or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
constitutionality of the remainder of the article and it applicability to other
persons and circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 1364, passed 9-20-2010)
CHAPTER XVI: ZONING AND PLANNING
   Article
      
1.   CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
      
2.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
3.   MULTI-HAZARD, MULTI-JURISDICTIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
ARTICLE 1: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
16-101   Commission created
   
16-102   Same; appointment; terms
   
16-103   Same; meetings
   
16-104   Same; powers
   
16-105   Effect on prior action
   
16-106   Actions; referral
   
16-107   Budget
   
16-108   Personnel
§ 16-101 COMMISSION CREATED.
   There is hereby created the Phillipsburg City Planning Commission
(hereinafter referred to as the “Planning Commission”), as authorized by the
City Planning and Zoning Laws, K.S.A. 12-701 to 12-715d, as amended, for the
purpose of carrying out those duties prescribed by the statutes for the city.
(Ord. 1059, passed 8-1-1977)
§ 16-102 SAME; APPOINTMENT; TERMS.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members, five of whom shall
reside within the corporate limits of the city and two of which shall reside
within a three-mile radius of those corporate limits, all of whom shall be
appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent of the governing body. All
terms of office of the Planning Commission shall commence on January 1 and
expire on December 31, and shall be for three years, except for the initial
appointments. The initial appointments shall be: two Commissioners for one
year; two Commissioners for two years; and three Commissioners for three years.
Thereafter, members shall be appointed for terms of three years. In case of the
death, incapacity, resignation or disqualification of any member of the
Planning Commission, the Mayor in making the appointment of a new member shall
do so for the unexpired term of the previous member. A Planning Commission
member shall not be disqualified by reason of changing his or her residence;
provided, such person continues to reside within three miles of the corporate
limits of the city. All members, including the Chairperson, shall have the
right to take part in all discussions and to vote on any matter of business
which comes before the Planning Commission; except that, any member who
possesses a conflict of interest in a certain piece of business or proposal
should disqualify himself or herself from both the discussion and voting
thereon. Members of the Planning Commission shall serve without compensation,
but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties as members of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1059, passed 8-1-1977)
§ 16-103 SAME; MEETINGS.
   The Planning Commission shall convene for meetings at least once per month
as specified within the bylaws of the Planning Commission. The operation of the
meetings, the elections of officers, the definitions of a quorum, the keeping
of records and all other operating procedures of the Planning Commission shall
be set forth in those bylaws.
(Ord. 1059, passed 8-1-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-703
§ 16-104 SAME; POWERS.
   The Planning Commission shall have all powers and duties set out within the
city planning and zoning statutes of the state, as may be prescribed by law
from time to time.
(Ord. 1059, passed 8-1-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see K.S.A. 12-701 et seq.
§ 16-105 EFFECT ON PRIOR ACTION.
   All planning and zoning actions of every kind heretofore recommended by the
previous joint Planning Commission and taken by the City Council of
Phillipsburg as a participant in the Phillipsburg- Phillips County Area
Planning Commission shall be continued in full force and shall in no way be
affected by this article.
(Ord. 1059, passed 8-1-1977)
§ 16-106 ACTIONS; REFERRAL.
   (a)   All planning and zoning actions taken by the governing body of the
city shall be first referred to the Planning Commission for its recommendations
in writing.
   (b)   No amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal of the zoning
regulations or restrictions of the city shall be made, except in conformity
with K.S.A. 12-701 to 12-715d.
(Ord. 1059, passed 8-1-1977)
§ 16-107 BUDGET.
   The Planning Commission each year shall submit to the governing body of the
city a proposed budget for the ensuing year necessary to carry out the
operation of the Planning Commission’s duties.
(Ord. 1059, passed 8-1-1977)
§ 16-108 PERSONNEL.
   The Planning Commission may hire and provide such professional and clerical
personnel as it shall deem necessary and all such personnel shall serve through
appointment of the Planning Commission upon the approval of the governing body.
(Ord. 1059, passed 8-1-1977)
ARTICLE 2: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
16-201   Zoning regulations incorporated
§ 16-201 ZONING REGULATIONS INCORPORATED.
   (a)   The Revised Zoning Ordinance for the City of Phillipsburg, Kansas, as
recommended by the Planning Commission, meeting the conditions for adoption
prescribed in K.S.A. 12-757, is hereby adopted and declared to be the official
zoning regulations for the zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (b)   The Zoning Ordinance shall constitute the basis for determination of
zoning district regulations within the zoning jurisdiction for the city.
(Ord. 1442, passed 5-2-2022)
ARTICLE 3: MULTI-HAZARD, MULTI-JURISDICTIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
Section
   
16-301   Hazard mitigation plan adopted
§ 16-301 HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The city adopts the North-Northwest Kansas (Region B) Multi-Hazard, Multi-
Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan as an official plan.
(Res. 294, passed 7-6-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CHARTER ORDINANCES
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: CHARTER ORDINANCES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1             - -         Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79-1952, relating to
                          tax levies; (repealed by Charter Ord. 3)
2             12-2-1968   Exempting the city from K.S.A. 14-201, relating to
                          the election, appointment and term of city officers
                          Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79-5011, relating to
3             - -         tax levies and a special utility fund; (protest
                          petition filed; no election held; ordinance never
                          took effect)
3             8-4-1975    Repealing Charter Ord. 1, relating to the limiting of
                          tax levies
                          Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79-5011, relating to
4             - -         tax levies and a special utility fund; (protest
                          petition filed; no election held; ordinance never
                          took effect)
                          Exempting the city from K.S.A. 75-117, 75-1120, 75-
5             12-15-1980  1121 and 75-1122, relating to fixed asset records and
                          accountings
6             5-3-1982    Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79-5011, relating to
                          tax levies and a special utility fund
3             5-6-1985    Relating to the imposition and collection of
                          Municipal Court costs and fees
7             10-16-1989  Exempting the city from K.S.A. 14-440, relating to
                          improvement contracts
8             6-4-1990    Exempting the city from K.S.A. 79-1952, relating to
                          the limitations of tax levies
                         
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1144          6-4-1984    Granting a closed circuit electronic service
                          franchise to Phillipsburg TV Cable Company
1161          11-3-1986   Granting a gas transmission and distribution system
                          franchise to KN Energy, Inc.
1176          12-19-1988  Granting an electric distribution franchise to Centel
                          Corporation
1331          10-16-2006  Granting a natural gas distribution franchise to
                          Midwest Energy, Inc.
1332          12-18-2006  Granting a telecommunications local exchange service
                          franchise to Southwestern Bell Telephone, L.P.
1400          10-3-2016   Granting a natural gas distribution franchise to
                          Midwest Energy, Inc.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kansas Statutes Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KANSAS STATUTES ANNOTATED
K.S.A. Section Code Section
K.S.A. Section                Code Section
Chapter 2, Article 13         8-307
2-1314                        8-307
Chapter 8                     5-502
Chapter 8, Article 17         14-223
8-1102                        8-511
8-1212 et seq.                9-201
8-126 to 8-149                8-205;
                              8-503
8-1599                        3-107
8-2118                        14-103
8-2404                        5-506
9-1401 et seq.                1-1007
9-1402                        1-704
9-2107                        1-704
10-803                        1-310
10-804                        1-310
10-1101 et seq.               1-704;
                              1-1007
Chapter 12, Article 41        9-108
12-103                        1-202
12-120 to 12-121              1-113
                              4-511;
                              8-110;
12-1,115                      8-214;
                              8-304;
                              8-513
12-685                        14-214
12-685 et seq.                12-214
12-701 to 12-715d             16-101;
                              16-106
12-701 et seq.                16-104
12-703                        16-103
12-757                        16-201
12-822                        15-309;
                              15-310
12-825a                       15-105
12-825d                       15-103
12-862 et seq.                15-104
12-1222                       12-501
12-1224                       12-502
12-1225                       12-503
12-1228                       12-505;
                              12-506
12-1608                       1-310
12-1617                       5-105;
                              5-207
                              8-105;
                              8-106;
12-1617e                      8-110;
                              8-209;
                              8-507
12-1617f                      8-303;
                              8-304
12-1675                       1-704;
                              1-1007
12-1675a                      1-703
12-1675a(g)                   1-704
12-1677a                      1-704
12-1677b                      1-704
12-1740 et seq.               3-105
12-1750                       4-502
12-1750 et seq.               8-607;
                              8-608
12-1750 through 12-1756       4-514
12-1751                       4-501
12-1752                       4-505;
                              4-506
12-1755                       4-511
12-1756                       4-512;
                              8-609
12-1757 et seq.               1-801
12-1801                       13-302
12-1802                       13-303
12-1803                       13-304
12-1804                       13-305
12-1805                       13-306
12-1806                       13-307
12-1807                       13-302
12-1808                       13-308
12-2001 et seq.               13-119
12-3002                       1-108
12-3007                       1-110
12-3008                       1-111
                              4-202;
12-3009 through 12-3012       4-302;
                              4-402
12-3014                       1-106
12-3015                       1-106
12-4101 et seq.               9-102;
                              9-106
12-4107                       9-105
12-4108                       9-108
12-4116                       9-112
12-4411                       9-112
12-5901 et seq.               1-1001
14-103                        6-202
14-307                        12-101
14-308                        1-208
14-567                        15-415
15-106                        1-203;
                              1-204
15-310                        1-206
17-12a401                     1-704
17-1914                       4-602
17-1915                       4-603
17-1916                       4-608
17-1917                       4-609
17-1918                       4-610
20-2801                       10-202
Chapter 21, Article 37        5-507
21-3701                       5-503
21-3703                       5-503
21-3704                       5-503
21-3705                       5-503
21-3805                       5-507
21-3807                       5-507
21-3808                       5-507
21-3818                       5-507
21-4106                       3-209
21-4107                       3-209
21-5401                       10-203
21-5402                       10-203
21-5403                       10-203
21-5404                       10-203
21-5405                       10-203
21-5701 through 21-5717       10-203
21-5801                       5-503
21-5801 through 21-5839       5-507
21-5802                       5-503
21-5803                       5-503
21-5903                       5-507
21-5904                       5-507
21-5905                       5-507
21-6204                       3-209;
                              8-101
21-6412(a)(6)                 5-507
22-2512                       10-203
25-2111                       6-106
25-2302                       6-103
25-2303                       6-102
26-206                        6-106
Chapter 27                    3-105
32-1047                       10-203
40-2404                       8-611
40-3101 et seq.               14-225
40-3901 et seq.               4-511;
                              8-601
41-307                        3-212
41-308d                       3-305
41-310                        3-302
41-710                        3-306
41-712                        3-304
41-713                        3-305
41-715                        3-305
                              3-104;
41-719                        3-105;
                              3-107
41-2601 et seq.               3-213
                              3-213;
41-2614                       3-403;
                              3-503;
                              3-603
41-2637                       3-101
41-2659                       3-106
41-2701                       3-207
41-2701 et seq.               3-209
                              3-201;
41-2702                       3-207;
                              3-802
                              3-205;
41-2703                       3-801;
                              3-804
41-2704                       3-206
41-2708                       3-209;
                              3-210
41-2729                       3-101
45-216 et seq.                1-1007
50-6,109 et seq.              5-507;
                              5-508
50-6,110                      5-502
50-6,111                      5-502
50-6,121 et seq.              4-211;
                              4-221
50-6,122                      4-211;
                              4-221
50-6,129(a)(1) through (a)(8) 4-211
54-104                        1-501
54-106                        1-501
58-1014 et seq.               5-401
60-1111                       13-309
60-2101                       8-213
60-4101 through 60-4126       10-203
65-163a                       15-245
65-3410                       15-615
73-207                        5-101
75-4301a et seq.              1-315;
                              1-1004
75-4308                       1-501
75- 4317 et seq.              1-1004
75-6101 et seq.               1-1004
78-111                        1-504
79-2803                       1-1005
79-2804                       1-1005
82a-1201 et seq.              4-1001
82a-1203(g)                   4-1001
                              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
235      9-6-2016    12-301
257      5-21-2018   4-213
260      5-21-2018   12-405;
                     12-407
272      10-21-2019  12-301;
                     12-304
275      11-4-2019   12-303
280      2-3-2020    6-101
281      3-2-2020    1-901—
                     1-903
289      11-16-2020  12-411
290      12-7-2020   2-117
294      7-6-2021    16-301
309      4-4-2022    5-207
310      7-5-2022    1-612;
                     1-613
325      4-3-2023    12-302
352      9-3-2024    15-301
353      9-3-2024    15-612
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
Charter 1 - -         TSO Table I
Charter 3 - -         TSO Table I
Charter 4 - -         TSO Table I
122       - -         1-310
1234      - -         12-413—
                      12-415
Charter 2 12-2-1968   TSO Table I
846       4-5-1971    14-210
Charter 3 8-4-1975    TSO Table I
                      15-101—
                      15-108;
                      15-201—
                      15-204;
                      15-206;
                      15-207;
1037      6-7-1976    15-212;
                      15-214—
                      15-236;
                      15-305;
                      15-310;
                      15-311;
                      15-405—
                      15-428
                      15-601—
1038      6-7-1976    15-611;
                      15-615
1059      8-1-1977    16-101—
                      16-108
1071      6-5-1978    15-302
1073      8-7-1978    13-416
1074      8-7-1978    14-212
1084      12-18-1978  12-406
1088      6-4-1979    15-312
                      15-401;
1095      1-7-1980    15-404;
                      15-504—
                      15-506
Charter 5 12-15-1980  TSO Table I
1106      2-16-1981   14-213
1112      7-6-1981    15-302
1116      12-21-1981  5-101
Charter 6 5-3-1982    TSO Table I
1133      4-4-1983    14-214
1136      8-1-1983    4-801;
                      4-802
1143      5-21-1984   12-412
1144      6-4-1984    TSO Table II
1154      4-1-1985    15-313
Charter 3 5-6-1985    TSO Table I
1155      5-6-1985    4-901;
                      4-902
1158      10-21-1985  11-209
1161      11-3-1986   TSO Table II
1167      11-16-1987  15-237—
                      15-241
1170      5-16-1988   2-401
1176      12-19-1988  TSO Table II
1185      6-19-1989   15-309
Charter 7 10-16-1989  TSO Table I
1190      2-19-1990   4-501—
                      4-514
1191      3-5-1990    15-242—
                      15-245
1192      3-5-1990    4-1001
Charter 8 6-4-1990    TSO Table I
1197      8-20-1990   8-501—
                      8-512
1204      10-21-1991  14-102
1207      11-4-1991   7-302
                      2-106;
                      2-119;
1213      12-7-1992   2-201—
                      2-215;
                      2-219
1220      5-16-1994   15-603
1224      6-6-1994    7-303
1236      7-3-1995    4-903;
                      4-904
1244      5-24-1996   3-103
1245      6-3-1996    4-210
1257      12-15-1997  14-215—
                      14-221
1267      1-3-2000    4-701
1287      2-18-2002   12-411
1296      10-7-2002   11-210
1299      8-18-2003   8-105;
                      8-303
1303      12-1-2003   13-118—
                      13-129
1306      4-19-2004   14-211
1314      8-2-2005    3-705
1317      9-19-2005   3-213;
                      3-304
1321      3-6-2006    8-107
1331      10-16-2006  TSO Table II
1332      12-18-2006  TSO Table II
1338      6-18-2007   12-212
1345      6-2-2008    4-1101;
                      4-1102
1347      8-18-2008   14-227;
                      14-228
                      4-202;
1351      2-2-2009    4-302;
                      4-402;
                      7-201
                      14-222;
1355      9-8-2009    14-225;
                      14-226
1357      1-18-2010   14-214
                      12-402;
1361      7-19-2010   12-403;
                      12-410;
                      12-416
1364      9-20-2010   15-701—
                      15-710
1365      11-1-2010   3-102
1366      11-15-2010  1-801—
                      1-806
1375      3-5-2012    7-403
1400      10-3-2016   TSO Table II
                      1-208;
1401      10-3-2016   1-301;
                      6-104
1402      3-6-2017    6-105
1409      11-6-2017   2-402
1411      6-19-2018   14-223
1417      10-1-2018   1-1001—
                      1-1007
1420      4-15-2019   3-207
1421      5-6-2019    3-104;
                      12-209
1426      7-20-2020   7-408
1431      12-21-2020  5-110
1439      3-7-2022    15-501
1440      3-7-2022    15-403
1442      5-2-2022    16-201
1444      7-5-2022    9-112
1448      12-30-2022  6-201
1453      4-3-2023    14-209
1454      8-7-2023    14-224
1459      10-6-2025   11-101
                      14-101;
1460      10-6-2025   14-103;
                      14-104
1461      5-18-2026   15-304
                     
 
 
