CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF
CUMMING, IOWA
Adopted September 14, 2020, by Ordinance No. 2020-02
Prepared By: Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
**** SUPPLEMENT RECORD ****
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date     Subject
Nov-20    165.29                  2019-09  12-9-19  Landscaping and Open Space
                                                    Requirments
          Ch. 155                 2019-10  1-13-20  Building Regulations
                                  2020-01           Tabled
                                  2020-02  9-14-20  Adopting Ordinance
          Ch. 55                  2020-03  9-14-20  Animal Control
          69.09                   2020-04  9-14-20  Truck Parking Limited
                                  2020-05           Not Adopted
          Ch. 165                 2020-06  10-12-20 Rezoning from A-1 to C-1
          122.06; 122.10          2020-07  10-12-20 Peddlers, Solicitors, and
                                                    Transient Merchants
May-22    69.08                   2020-08  1-11-21  Parking Regulations
          99.06                   2021-01  4-12-21  Sewer Service Charges
          90.12                   2021-02  4-12-21  Water Service System
          Ch. 165                 2021-03  9-27-21  Rezoning from A-1 and C-
                                                    1 to PUD
          155.08(5)               2021-04  11-8-21  International Fire Code
          40.06; 69.09(2)         2021-05  11-8-21  Truck Noise
          Ch. 165                 2021-06  11-22-21 Great Western Crossing PUD
          65.01(5); 65.06         2021-07  1-24-22  Stop or Yield Required
          63.04(2)(C)             2021-08  1-24-22  Speed Regulations
          Ch. 165                 2022-01  2-28-22  Great Western Crossing PUD
 
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01 TITLE.
   This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Cumming, Iowa.
1.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the
Code of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances
unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
Council or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases
used herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise
in another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would
be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   2.   “City” means the City of Cumming, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Cumming, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Cumming, Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Cumming, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Warren County, Iowa.
   8.   “May” confers a power.
   9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.
   10.   “Must” states a requirement.
   11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Cumming, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
   13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended. 
   19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03 CITY POWERS.
   The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if
not inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power
and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the
rights, privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and
convenience of its residents, and each and every provision of this Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and
the performance of the foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04 INDEMNITY.
   The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05 PERSONAL INJURIES.
   When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to
have been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person
by whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07 EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08 AMENDMENTS.
   All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09 CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10 ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12 WARRANTS.
   If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
   Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the
Council or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does
not specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14 STANDARD PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$65.00 but not to exceed $625.00. 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Cumming, Iowa.
2.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for
overlapping terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05 TERM OF MAYOR.
    The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06 COPIES ON FILE.
   The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the
official records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies
of the charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.04 Civil Citations
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.05 Alternative Relief
3.03 Penalties               3.06 Alternative Penalties
 
3.01 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein
adopted by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty
required by the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically
provided under State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious
misdemeanor, or a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code
of Iowa, is a municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided
herein. †
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
�† EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
  Ordinances, see Section 1.14.
3.02 ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
   A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of
Iowa or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the
Department of Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental
violation. However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable
until the City has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding
the violation or to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03 PENALTIES.
    A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
   1.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04 CIVIL CITATIONS.
    Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may
issue a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy
of the citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
3.05 ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to:
   1.   Imposing a civil penalty by entry of a personal judgment against the
defendant.
   2.   Directing that payment of the civil penalty be suspended or deferred
under conditions imposed by the court.
   3.   Granting appropriate alternative relief ordering the defendant to abate
or cease the violation.
   4.   Authorizing the City to abate or correct the violation.
   5.   Ordering that the City’s costs for abatement or correction of the
violation be entered as a personal judgment against the defendant or assessed
against the property where the violation occurred, or both.
3.06 ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
    This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal
citation for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal
penalties are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit
the authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances
by criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[11])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings               
 
5.01 OATHS.
    The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
   2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Cumming as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
   3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
      A.   Mayor
      B.   City Clerk
      C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02 BONDS.
    Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Finance Officer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
   4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[3])
5.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
    Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
    All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open
to examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 & 22.3A)
5.05 TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
    Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06 MEETINGS.
    All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   1.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   2.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   3.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   5.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   6.   Electronic Meetings. A meeting may be conducted by electronic means
only in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or
impractical and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
    A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect,
in any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services
to be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
   2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
   3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
   4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
   5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
   6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
   7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
   8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
   9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
   10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
   11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
   12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08 RESIGNATIONS.
    An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a
resignation in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and
considered. A person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for
appointment to the same office during the time for which the person was elected
if, during that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09 REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
    Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10 VACANCIES.
    A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be
filled in accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11 GIFTS.
    Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01 NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
    All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02 NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
    Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 10 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03 ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
    The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04 PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
    Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy.
The petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5 & 45.6)
6.05 FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
    The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of
validity thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the
effect of such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of
such petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by
the appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06 PERSONS ELECTED.
    The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on
the ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules
and regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02 FINANCE OFFICER.
    The City Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is
responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03 CASH CONTROL.
    To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following
shall apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
   2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
   3.   Petty Cash Fund. The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty cash
fund for the payment of small claims for minor purchases, collect-on-delivery
transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid at the time of
rendering a service, for which payments the finance officer shall obtain some
form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or agent. At such
time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the finance officer shall
draw a check for replenishment in the amount of the accumulated expenditures
and said check and supporting detail shall be submitted to the Council as a
claim in the usual manner for claims and charged to the proper funds and
accounts. It shall not be used for salary payments or other personal services
or personal expenses.
7.04 FUND CONTROL.
    There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
   3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[2])
   4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[3])
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited
by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[4])
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[5])
   7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05 OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION The annual operating budget of the City shall
be prepared in accordance with the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the finance officer
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
   4.   Resolution Establishing Maximum Property Tax Dollars. The Council shall
adopt a resolution establishing the total maximum property tax dollars that may
be certified for levy that includes taxes for City government purposes under
Code of Iowa Section 384.1, for the City’s trust and agency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.6, Subsection 1, for the City’s emergency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.8, and for the levies authorized under Code of Iowa Section
384.12, Subsections 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, and 21, but excluding additions
approved at election under Code of Iowa Section 384.12, Subsection 19.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.15A)
      A.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
resolution before the date for adoption of the resolution and shall publish
notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days prior to the
hearing in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
      B.   If the City has an internet site, the notice shall also be posted
and clearly identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning
on the date of the newspaper publication or public posting, as applicable.
Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on one or more
social media applications, the public hearing notice or an electronic link to
the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such account on the same day
as the publication of the notice. All of the following shall be included in the
notice:
         (1)   The sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property taxes
certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection and the
current fiscal year’s combined property tax levy rate for such amount that is
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (2)   The effective tax rate calculated using the sum of the current
fiscal year’s actual property taxes certified for levy under the levies
specified in this subsection, applicable to taxable property in the City other
than property used and assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (3)   The sum of the proposed maximum property tax dollars that may be
certified for levy for the budget year under the levies specified in this
subsection and the proposed combined property tax levy rate for such amount
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (4)   If the proposed maximum property tax dollars specified under
Subparagraph (3) exceed the current fiscal year’s actual property tax dollars
certified for levy specified in Subparagraph (1), a statement of the major
reasons for the increase.
Proof of publication shall be filed with and preserved by the County Auditor.
The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the public hearing
notice for cities and the form for the resolution to be adopted by the Council
under Paragraph C of this subsection.
      C.   At the public hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written
objections from any resident or property owner of the City. After all
objections have been received and considered, the Council may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed maximum property tax dollar amount for inclusion in the
resolution and shall adopt the resolution and file the resolution with the
County Auditor as required under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3.
      D.   If the sum of the maximum property tax dollars for the budget year
specified in the resolution under the levies specified in this subsection
exceeds 102 percent of the sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property
taxes certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection, the
Council shall be required to adopt the resolution by a two-thirds majority of
the membership of the Council.
      E.   If the City has an internet site, in addition to filing the
resolution with the Auditor under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3,
the adopted resolution shall be posted and clearly identified on the City’s
internet site for public viewing within 10 days of approval by the Council. The
posted resolution for a budget year shall continue to be accessible for public
viewing on the internet site along with resolutions posted for all subsequent
budget years.
   5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until adoption of the resolution
required under Subsection 4 of this section, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before March 31 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice.  Proof of publication of the notice under
this subsection and a copy of the resolution adopted under Subsection 4 of this
section must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
   7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and City Clerk and have a copy posted at one of the places designated for
the posting of notices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
   8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt,
by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing or the applicable amount specified in the resolution adopted
under Subsection 4 of this section. Two copies each of the detailed budget as
adopted and of the tax certificate must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06 BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
    A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes
effective July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and
purpose specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.2[384, 388])
   2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.3[384, 388])
   3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
   4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
7.07 ACCOUNTING.
    The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
   2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
   3.   Checks. Checks shall be prenumbered and signed by a City Council
member, following Council approval, except as provided by subsection 5 hereof.
If the amount of the check is over $250.00, checks shall be signed by two
Council members.
   4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize
the Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not
paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
   6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08 FINANCIAL REPORTS.
    The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. A copy of the annual report must be filed
with the Auditor of State not later than December 1 of each year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
 
8.01 Purpose                        8.06 Applications
8.02 Definitions                    8.07 Approval
8.03 Period of Partial Exemption    8.08 Exemption Repealed
8.04 Amounts Eligible for Exemption 8.09 Dual Exemptions Prohibited
8.05 Limitations
 
8.01 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from
property taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the
new construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.
8.02 DEFINITIONS.
    For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first year
for which the exemption is received.
   2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used primarily for
the storage of goods that are intended for subsequent shipment to retail
outlets. Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used
primarily to store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer
to store goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the
storage of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
   3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and includes new
buildings and structures that are constructed as additions to existing
buildings and structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of
an existing building or structure that does not constitute complete replacement
of an existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure unless the reconstruction of an existing building or structure is
required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is necessary to
implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and processing of
specific products and the reconstruction is required for the owner of the
building or structure to continue competitively to manufacture or process those
products, which determination shall receive prior approval from the City
Council.
   4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including (but not
limited to) the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use and corporate research services that do not have a primary
purpose of providing on-site services to the public.
   5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public warehouse
for the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the Code of
Iowa, except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
8.03 PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
    The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five years. The exemption shall also apply to the acquisition
of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant
to Section 427A.1[1e] of the Code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment is
part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the
existing operational status.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.04 AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.
    The amount of actual value added, which is eligible to be exempt from
taxation, shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
   1.   For the first year, 75 percent.
   2.   For the second year, 60 percent.
   3.   For the third year, 45 percent.
   4.   For the fourth year, 30 percent.
   5.   For the fifth year, 15 percent.
8.05 LIMITATIONS.
    The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.06 APPLICATIONS.
    An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value
added for which an exemption is claimed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
   1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the
property with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which
the value added is first assessed for taxation.
   2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.
8.07 APPROVAL.
    A person may submit a proposal to the City Council to receive prior
approval for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. If the City
Council resolves to consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold a
public hearing thereon. Thereafter, at least 30 days after such hearing, the
City Council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for
new construction if the new construction is in conformance with City zoning.
Such prior approval shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation
until the new construction has been completed and found to be qualified real
estate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
8.08 EXEMPTION REPEALED.
    When in the opinion of the City Council continuation of the exemption
granted by this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the City Council
may repeal this chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)
8.09 DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.
    A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property tax
exemption authorized by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)
CHAPTER 9
URBAN REVITALIZATION
EDITOR’S NOTE
Ordinance No. 2001-03, adopted November 26, 2001, designated the Cumming
Commercial and Industrial Urban Revitalization Area for the City. This
ordinance, not codified herein, is specifically saved from repeal.
CHAPTER 10
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            NAME OF AREA
2007-10       September 10, 2007 Cumming Commercial Urban Renewal Area
 
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
    The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
   1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, with responsibility for the general
public relations of the City and intergovernmental affairs, supervise all
departments of the City, except for supervisory duties delegated to the City
Administrator, give direction to department heads concerning the functions of
the departments, and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal
departments, their records and to call for special reports from department
heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
   3.   Council Meetings. Preside at all Council meetings.
   4.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   5.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain
the reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the
veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 & 380.6[2])
   6.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   7.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   8.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf
of the City.
   9.   Professional Services. Fulfill all legal obligations and
responsibilities and, upon order of the Council, secure for the City such
specialized and professional services not already available to the City. In
executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with this
Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
   10.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
   11.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
   12.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03 APPOINTMENTS.
    The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
   1.   Mayor Pro Tem
15.04 COMPENSATION.
    The salary of the Mayor is $50.00 for each meeting of the Council attended
and $15.00 for each meeting attended outside of Council meetings, payable
quarterly. An annual adjustment will be made at the start of each fiscal year
equal to the latest calendar year annual Federal Consumer Price Index rate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05 VOTING.
    The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01 VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem
shall perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the
Mayor to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the
Mayor Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from
employment officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint,
employ, or discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03 VOTING RIGHTS.
   The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04 COMPENSATION.
    If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
    The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for
overlapping terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 & 376.2)
17.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
    The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   2.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16 & 384.38[1])
   3.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   4.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 26.10)
   5.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   6.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
   7.   Direct City Administrator. Control and direct the activities of the
City Administrator.
   8.   Policies. Make and establish the policies of the City.
   9.   Other Appointments. Appoint other positions as allowed by ordinance,
resolution, and statute.
17.03 EXERCISE OF POWER.
    The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
   1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage,
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
    Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other
provisions regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
   1.   Regular Meetings. The time and place of the regular meetings of the
Council shall be fixed by resolution of the Council.
   2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor
or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
   4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
17.05 APPOINTMENTS.
    The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their
powers, duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Clerk
   2.   City Finance Officer
   3.   City Attorney
   4.   Planning and Zoning Commission
   5.   Zoning Administrator
   6.   Zoning Board of Adjustment
   7.   Park and Recreation Board
17.06 COMPENSATION.
    The salary of each Council member is $30.00 for each meeting of the Council
attended, and $15.00 for each meeting attended outside of Council meetings,
payable quarterly. An annual adjustment will be made at the start of each
fiscal year equal to the latest calendar year annual Federal Consumer Price
Index rate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification
 
18.01 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
    At its first meeting in January following the regular City election, the
Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve for a term of two
years. The Clerk shall receive such compensation as established by resolution
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02 POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
    The Clerk or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances,
and the law.
18.03 PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
    Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the Clerk shall
cause the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published. Such publication
shall include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and
shall show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04 RECORDING MEASURES.
    The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 & 2])
18.05 OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
    The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments,
proceedings and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
   1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City, except that ordinances and amendments
may be published by posting in the following places:
City Hall, 649 N. 44th Street
U.S. Post Office, 121 N. 44th Street
Cumming Tap, 117 N. 44th Street
   The Clerk is hereby directed to post promptly such ordinances, notices,
notices of elections and other matters permitted or other proceedings and to
leave them so posted for not less than 10 days after the first date of posting.
Unauthorized removal of the posted matter prior to the completion of the 10
days shall not affect the validity of said ordinance, notice or other
proceedings. The Clerk shall note the first date of such posting on the
official copy of the notice, proceedings, or the ordinance and in the official
ordinance book immediately following the ordinance.
18.06 AUTHENTICATION.
    The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07 CERTIFICATION.
    The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district,
building lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or
limits to the recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08 RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
   2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating
to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption or replacement of public
bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the final
maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating to real
property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 & 5])
   4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 & 5] and 380.7[5])
   5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
    The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
    The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by
this Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11 NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
    The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to
offices in the City government of their positions and the time at which they
shall assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12 ELECTIONS.
    The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13 CITY SEAL.
    The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the
Clerk to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or
proper to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of
which is the word “SEAL” and around the margin of which are the words “CUMMING,
IOWA.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY FINANCE OFFICER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Finance Officer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01 APPOINTMENT.
    The City Clerk is the Finance Officer and performs all functions required
of the position of Finance Officer.
19.02 COMPENSATION.
    The Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing the duties of
the Finance Officer.
19.03 DUTIES OF FINANCE OFFICER.
    The duties of the Finance Officer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
   2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
   3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Finance Officer on behalf of the City and specify the date,
from whom, and for what purpose received.
   4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
   5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by
the Finance Officer from special assessments.
   6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Finance
Officer’s custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories
selected by the Council.
   7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Finance
Officer’s books and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and
investments of each fund and amounts received and disbursed.
   8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
   9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.05 Review and Comment
20.02 Attorney for City            20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.08 Prepare Documents
 
20.01 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
    The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
discretion of the Council and shall establish by resolution the City Attorney’s
compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02 ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
    The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters
affecting the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any
court, tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or
defend all actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03 POWER OF ATTORNEY.
    The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and
to all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the
prosecution of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound
upon the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04 ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
    The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may
desire and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such
ordinances before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05 REVIEW AND COMMENT.
    The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving
an opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to
or coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06 PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
    The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07 ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
    The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of
the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08 PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
    The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts,
forms, and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 21
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
 
21.01 Purpose                      21.05 Residency Requirement
21.02 Office of City Administrator 21.06 Administrative Responsibility
21.03 Appointment and Term         21.07 Duties
21.04 Compensation
 
21.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to create the office of City Administrator
and to set forth the duties and powers relative thereto.
21.02 OFFICE OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The office of City Administrator is hereby created. The office of City
Administrator, City Clerk and other appointive positions may be filled by the
same person unless otherwise precluded by State laws of ordinances.
21.03 APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
    The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Administrator to serve at
the discretion of the Council. The City Council is hereby authorized, in its
discretion, to enter into employment contracts with the Administrator as may be
necessary for his or her employment.
21.04 COMPENSATION.
   The City Administrator shall receive such annual salary and benefits as the
Council shall from time to time determine by resolution, and payment shall be
made from the treasury of the City, in the manner provided for the payment of
compensation and allocation of benefits to other City employees.
21.05 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   Within a reasonable period of time after employment, the City Administrator
shall be required to be a resident of the City, unless this requirement is
specifically waived or varied by Council ordinance or by contract authorized by
the Council.
21.06 ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The City Administrator is directly responsible to the Council for the
administration of municipal affairs as directed by that body. All departments
of the City, except the City Attorney, shall report and be responsible to the
City Administrator. All departmental activity requiring the attention of the
Council shall be brought before the Council by the City Administrator and all
Council policy concerning administration shall be coordinated through the City
Administrator. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as limiting the
Mayor’s power of general supervision, appointment or removal as provided by
State laws or current ordinances.
21.07 DUTIES.
   The duties of the City Administrator are as follows:
   1.   Coordinate City projects and keep the Council informed of actions
required by the Council, and prepare agenda or supervise its preparation and
attend all Council meetings unless excused; provide meeting coordination and
needed assistance to the Council, Board of Adjustment, and Planning and Zoning
Commission to assure smooth meeting operation.
   2.   Supervise enforcement of City laws and assure that resolutions,
ordinances, laws and Council directives and operational policies are enforced
and executed, or referred to the proper official for compliance.
   3.   Keep the Council fully advised of the financial and other conditions of
the City and its future needs.
   4.   Supervise and direct the official conduct of all employees of the City
and to make recommendations to the Council concerning the employment,
classification, or discharge of all employees of the City except the City
Attorney.
   5.   Formulate and recommend employment and personnel policies, compensation
schedules and benefits; to prepare and maintain job descriptions for all City
employees, all with the approval of the Council.
   6.   Obtain for the City, upon order of the Council, such specialized and
professional services deemed necessary by the Council and not already available
to the City.
   7.   Assist the Mayor in any of the Mayor’s duties as requested by the Mayor
and as approved by the Council.
   8.   Study and recommend to the Council such measures as deemed necessary or
expedient for the good government and welfare of the City.
   9.   Make recommendations to the Council and to participate in projects and
endeavors to support and promote economic growth and development in the City.
   10.   Assist the Council with the municipal boards and commissions by making
recommendations to the boards and commissions about planning, activities and
the execution of its policies and programs as agreed upon.
   11.   Supervise the construction, improvement, repair, maintenance and
management of all City property, capital improvements and undertakings of the
City, including the making and preservation of all surveys, maps, plans,
drawings specifications and estimates for capital improvements, in conjunction
with the City Engineer.
   12.   Supervise the performance of all contracts for work to be done for the
City, make all purchases of materials and supplies and see that such material
and supplies are received and are of the quality and character called for by
the contract.
   13.   Maintain liaison with citizens, businesses, developers, builders,
engineers and other governmental agencies.
   14.   Prepare and administer the annual City operating budget in
coordination with the Mayor and City Council.
   15.   Conduct the business affairs of the City and cause accurate records to
be kept by modern and efficient accounting methods.
   16.   Represent and assist the Council or City in various official
governmental and civic matters as directed by the Council.
   17.   Initiate, conduct, implement and evaluate studies, grants and programs
as directed by Council.
   18.   Serve as Zoning Administrator; review building and zoning
applications, refer matters to the Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustment as needed and authorize occupancy certificates. The City
Administrator shall assist the Council and Planning and Zoning Commission in
carrying out their duties related to land use regulation and planning within
the City, as well as facilitate the preparation and administration of the
comprehensive plan.
   19.   Perform the duties of City Clerk and/or City Finance Officer if
appointed by the Council to fill such offices contemporaneously and otherwise
shall cooperate with and assist the City Clerk and City Finance Officer with
all accounting and accounting procedures. The City Administrator shall be the
City Clerk pro tempore when the appointed City Clerk is temporarily unable to
perform the duties required of that office.
   20.   Perform other duties at the Council’s direction.
CHAPTER 22
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
 
22.01 Purpose            22.05 Reports
22.02 Creation of Board  22.06 Sub-Committees
22.03 Board Organization 22.07 Compensation
22.04 Regular Meetings   22.08 Specific Powers and Duties
 
22.01 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to establish an administrative agency for
the operation of and planning for recreation and parks for the City.
22.02 CREATION OF BOARD.
    A Parks and Recreation Board is hereby created and shall have such powers
and duties as are expressed in this chapter relative to the development and
overseeing and implementation of plans, policies, procedures and programs for
the City parks, tennis courts, and any other recreational facility and activity
undertaken by or on behalf of the City.
22.03 BOARD ORGANIZATION.
    The Board shall consist of seven members. At least five members shall be
citizens of the City and up to two members who are not citizens may be members
of the Board provided they reside within the 50061 zip code. No member shall be
elected officials of the City or employees of the City. Board members shall be
appointed by the Council at its first regular meeting in June for overlapping
three-year terms, commencing on July 1. Vacancies shall be filled in the same
manner as the original appointments.
22.04 REGULAR MEETINGS.
    The Board shall meet at such time and place as they shall determine, and
meetings shall thereafter be held at the same time and place each month. At the
first meeting in January, which shall be the organizational meeting, the Board
shall choose a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and a Secretary.
22.05 REPORTS.
   Within two weeks after each regular meeting of the Board, the duly
appointed, qualified and acting Secretary of the Board shall file with the
Council a copy of the minutes of said regular meeting, duly certified by said
Secretary.
22.06 SUB-COMMITTEES.
    The Board shall have authority to create Sub-Committees among the
membership of the Board to be responsible to the entire Board, which shall have
jurisdiction over the swimming pool, golf course, tennis court and the parks of
the City. These Sub-Committees shall be appointed by the Chairperson, subject
to the approval of the Board.
22.07 COMPENSATION.
    Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but may receive
reimbursement for any expenditures of personal funds in the furtherance of the
Board’s business subject to the approval of Council.
22.08 SPECIFIC POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Parks and Recreation Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   1.   Property and Personnel. The Board shall have authority, with Council
approval, over the properties enumerated above and personnel, devoting to parks
and recreation, subject to the limitation of expenditures for salaries,
supplies and capital outlay set forth in the annual budget provided by the
Council for park and recreation operation.
   2.   Supplies and Materials. The Board shall have the authority, with
Council approval, to order supplies and material necessary to its operation,
and payments shall be made by a request to the City Clerk, submitted and
approved by the Board, subject to the budgetary limitations set out above. The
Board is authorized to spend up to, but not to exceed $50.00 per month. If
amount exceeds $50.00, the City Clerk or Mayor may authorize, but shall not
exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) without Council approval.
   3.   Rules and Regulations. The Board shall have the power to make rules and
regulations for the use of parks or other recreational facilities for the
conduct of recreational programs subject to the approval of the rules and
regulations by the Council. Such rules shall be either posted on the facilities
or otherwise published in such a manner as to be noticed by the using public.
   4.   Planning. The Board shall prepare and revise, at least once every five
years, the plans for the development and continuation of the system of City
parks, pleasure grounds, swimming pools, and other recreational facilities.
   5.   Fees and Charges. Whenever and only so long as there are no revenue
bonds or pledge orders outstanding which are payable therefrom, the Board shall
have the power and authority to establish fees, rates and charges for the use
of the City parks, pleasure grounds, swimming pool, golf course, or other
recreational facilities, subject, to Council approval.
   6.   Contracts. The Board shall have the power to authorize and execute on
behalf of the City, with City Council approval, contracts with public or
private entities for service relative to recreational programs and activities.
Such contracts shall be evidenced by a written contract approved by the City
Attorney as to form.
   7.   Lease Authority. The Board shall have the authority to lease, under
reasonable rules and requirements, a particular park or portion thereof, as
follows.
      A.   For a period not in excess of 10 days to charitable or fraternal and
patriotic organizations to conduct celebrations, anniversaries and
entertainment.
      B.   For a period as the Board deems proper for the purpose of permitting
the playing of amateur or professional baseball or other athletic games.
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies                       
 
23.01 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
    The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of seven members appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 & 392.1)
23.02 TERM OF OFFICE.
    The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years.
The terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one
year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03 VACANCIES.
    If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or
otherwise, a successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the
same manner as the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04 COMPENSATION.
    All members of the Commission shall receive $12.00 for each meeting of the
Board attended, subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
    The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
   4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid
out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the
Mayor and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 30
CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT
30.01 CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   The Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other qualified
lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City, and the
Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the powers and duties as
provided in said contract and as required by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, 28E.30)
**** CHAPTER 35
FIRE PROTECTION ****
35.01 CONTRACT.
   Pursuant to Chapter 28E of the Code of Iowa, the City has entered into a
contract agreement with the Norwalk Fire Department for fire protection
services within the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.12)
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault            40.04 Unlawful Assembly
40.02 Harassment         40.05 Failure to Disperse
40.03 Disorderly Conduct 40.06 Truck Noise
 
40.01 ASSAULT.
    No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
   1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
   2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02 HARASSMENT.
   No person shall commit harassment.
   1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or
in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1])
   2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[2])
   3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[3])
   4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[4])
   5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate
a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such
report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[5])
   6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[6])
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
   7.   Obstruct Use of Street. Without authority or justification, obstruct
any street, sidewalk, highway, or other public way, with the intent to prevent
or hinder its lawful use by others.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[7])
   8.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together, with them or
any of them acting in a violent manner, and with intent that they or any of
them will commit a public offense. No person shall willingly join in or remain
part of an unlawful assembly, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe
it is such.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.2)
40.05 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
40.06 TRUCK NOISE.
   No person shall operate a semi-tractor, semi-trailer, passenger bus used for
commercial or school purposes, any vehicle in excess of five (5) tons, or other
motor vehicle with trailer attached with total weight in excess of five (5)
tons in violation of the following regulations.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or
cause to be used or operated within the City of Cumming, any engine brake or
mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any
vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual or explosive noise from such
vehicle.
   2.   Noise. No such vehicle shall be left standing or parked upon any
street, public or private parking lot, or drive of any service station between
the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) p.m. and six o’clock (6:00) a.m. with the
engine, auxiliary engine, air compressor, refrigerating equipment or other
device in operation giving off audible sounds excepting only the drive of a
service station when actually being serviced, and then in no event for more
than thirty (30) minutes.
   3.   The scheduled fine for a violation of this section shall be first
offense $100.00, second offense $500.00, third or more offenses $1,000.00.
(Section 40.06 - Ord. 2021-05 - May 22 Supp.)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.10 Barbed Wire and
                                                         Electric Fences
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.11 Discharging
Safety Entities                                          Weapons
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.14 Fireworks
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.15 Cigarettes and
                                                         Tobacco
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.16 Contributing to
Device                                                   Delinquency
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators              41.17 Drug
                                                         Paraphernalia
41.09 Antenna and Radio Wires                            41.18 Public Exposure
                                                        41.19 Panhandling
 
41.01 DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any
corrosive, caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person
delivers such into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes
reasonable precautions that the substance will not be taken by children or
animals from the place where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02 FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.  
   No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or
she is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03 PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
    No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to
anyone known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care
provider, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any
act that is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer,
emergency medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04 REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05 HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer
or employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to
be a peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A
of the Code of Iowa, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, or a person
performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the Code of Iowa,
in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the lawful duty or
authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, or person performing bailiff duties, or shall knowingly resist or
obstruct the service or execution by any authorized person of any civil or
criminal process or order of any court. The terms “resist” and “obstruct” as
used in this section do not include verbal harassment unless the verbal
harassment is accompanied by a present ability and apparent intention to
execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07 REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
   No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08 ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
   No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09 ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
   It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11 DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
   2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12 THROWING AND SHOOTING.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind
or to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns,
or other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13 URINATING AND DEFECATING.
   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building,
including but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway,
doorway, or window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14 FIREWORKS.
   1.   Definition. “Fireworks” or “consumer fireworks” as used in this
section, shall mean those items listed or referred to under the definitions of
“first-class consumer fireworks” and “second-class consumer fireworks” as set
forth under Code of Iowa Chapter 100.
   2.   Restricted Use. No person shall use, explode, or discharge any consumer
fireworks on days other than July 3 through July 5, inclusive, between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., and December 31 between the hours of 12:00
noon and continuing through 1:00 a.m. on January 1.
   3.   Fireworks Permit for Display.
      A.   Supervised public exhibitions or displays shall be conducted only in
accordance with this subsection along with any rules and regulations issued by
the Fire Chief for the area included with the permit application boundaries of
the City.
      B.   Upon written application the City may grant a permit for the display
of fireworks by a City agency, fair association or other organizations or
groups as may be approved by the City and when such fireworks to be displayed
are under the direct control of a licensed and competent operator. Any
applications shall have attached thereto proof of insurance with limits no less
than the State requirements.
      C.   No person shall use, explode, discharge, possess or display
fireworks or consumer fireworks on any publicly owned property unless
authorized under this section.
   4.   Permit for Sale of Fireworks.
      A.   No person, retailer, consumer group or otherwise shall sell or
display any fireworks without possessing a consumer fireworks seller license as
required under Code of Iowa Chapter 100, without providing evidence of the
State required minimum amounts of insurance per occurrence and in the
aggregate.
      B.   No sale or display of fireworks shall occur in a permanent primary
structure unless it is in compliance with all rules as promulgated by the Iowa
Legislature under the Code of Iowa, the State Fire Marshal’s Office and any
NFPA regulations.
   5.   Enforcement.
      A.   The Mayor or designees are charged with the duty of enforcing these
provisions.
      B.   The penalty for violation of this section shall include confiscation
or destruction of any fireworks or consumer fireworks and in addition fines up
to and including $100.00 per violation or in amounts not to exceed those
allowed for a municipal infraction.
      C.   The City is authorized to enforce said violation as a municipal
infraction, as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
41.15 CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
   It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by a person under 18 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if said person possesses the tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part of the person’s
employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a valid permit
under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for sale or sells
cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
41.16 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
   It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age
to commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
41.17 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
   1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment,
products or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination
with a controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the
lawful use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and
primarily do any of the following:
      A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
      B.   Inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
      C.   Test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled
substance.
      D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance.
   Drug paraphernalia does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if
manufactured, delivered, sold, or possessed for a lawful purpose.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally
manufacture, deliver, sell, or possess drug paraphernalia.
41.18 PUBLIC EXPOSURE.
    No person shall expose those parts of his or her body hereinafter listed to
another in any public place, in any privately owned place open to the public,
or in any place where such exposure is seen by another person or persons
located in any public place:
   1.   A woman’s nipple, the areola thereof, or full breast, except as
necessary in the breast-feeding of a baby.
   2.   The pubic hair, pubes, perineum, or anus of a male or female, the penis
or scrotum of a male or the vagina of a female, excepting such body parts of
prepubescent infants of either sex.
This section does not apply to exposure occurring in live stage plays, live
theatrical performances or live dance performances conducted in a theater,
concert hall or similar establishment which is primarily devoted to theatrical
performances, and this section does not apply to limited or minimal exposures
incident to the use of public restrooms or locker rooms or such other places
where such exposures occur incident to the prescribed use of those facilities.
41.19 PANHANDLING. 1  
   1.   Intent. The intent of this section is to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of Cumming from aggressive panhandling and to protect
the health, safety, and welfare of all individuals, including panhandlers and
persons being solicited, by restricting panhandling in potentially dangerous
and high traffic areas.
   2.   Definitions. For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
      A.   “Panhandling” means any solicitation made in person, requesting an
immediate donation of money or other thing of value. Purchase of an item for an
amount far exceeding its value, under circumstances where a reasonable person
would understand that the purchase is, in substance, a donation, is a donation
for the purpose of this section. Except as specifically provided in this
section, panhandling does not include passively standing or sitting with a sign
or other indication that one is seeking donations, without addressing any
solicitation to any specific person other than in response to an inquiry by
that person, as long as said individual maintains the distance set forth in
this section.
      B.   “Solicitation” means person-to-person communication which, directly
or indirectly, seeks a present donation of money or other thing of material
value.
   3.   Place of Panhandling. It is unlawful for any person to panhandle, and
no registration issued under this section shall be deemed to allow panhandling,
including passively standing or sitting with a sign or other indication that
one is seeking donations, when the person solicited is in any of the following
places within the city limits of Cumming, Iowa:
      A.   At any bus or train stop.
      B.   In any public transportation vehicle or facility, excluding
airports.
      C.   In any vehicle on the street.
      D.   In a public park, fairground, or sporting facility, including entry
ways or exits thereto.
      E.   Within 15 feet of the site of any automated teller machine (ATM).
      F.   On private property, unless the panhandler has permission from the
owner or occupant.
      G.   On public property in the C-2 Central Business District.
      H.   At the off-ramp terminals located where Interstate 35 exits and
intersects with Highway G-14, which would include the entire off-ramp paved
surface and the additional area consisting of 16 feet from the edge of the
paved surface.
   4.   Manner of Panhandling. It is unlawful for any person to panhandle in
any of the following manners:
      A.   By blocking the path of the person solicited.
      B.   By using profane or abusive language, either during the solicitation
or following a refusal.
      C.   By panhandling in a group of two or more persons.
      D.   While under the influence of alcohol or any illegal narcotic or
controlled substance.
      E.   By any statement, gesture, or other communication which a reasonable
person in the situation of the person solicited would perceive to be a threat.
   5.   False or Misleading Solicitation. It is unlawful for any person to
knowingly make any false or misleading representation in the course of
soliciting a donation. False or misleading representations include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      A.   Stating that the donation is needed to meet a specific need, when
the solicitor already has sufficient funds to meet that need and does not
disclose that fact.
      B.   Stating that the donation is needed to meet a need which does not
exist.
      C.   Stating that the solicitor is from out-of-town and stranded, when
such is not true.
      D.   Wearing a military uniform or other indication of military service,
when the solicitor is neither a present or former member of the service
indicated.
      E.   Wearing or displaying an indication of physical disability, when the
solicitor does not suffer the disability indicated.
      F.   Use of any makeup or device to simulate any deformity.
      G.   Stating that the solicitor is homeless, when he or she is not.
   It is unlawful for any person to solicit a donation stating that the funds
are needed for a specific purpose and then spend the funds received for a
different purpose.
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Chapter 122, Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient
  Merchants.
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.06 Theft
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.07 Posting Notices and Handbills
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.08 Obstructing Drainage
42.04 Unauthorized Entry                42.09 Other Public Property Offenses
42.05 Fraud                              
 
42.01 TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
   2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
      A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance,
vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or
privately owned.
      B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of
the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of
the Code of Iowa.
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
      F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
         (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
         (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
         (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
         (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right- of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
         (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
   3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03 DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
   It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down,
or destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
   No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05 FRAUD.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06 THEFT.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07 POSTING NOTICES AND HANDBILLS.
    It is unlawful for any person to paste, nail or by any means to affix any
poster, show bill, handbill or other printed or written notice to any electric
or telephone poles within the City limits.
42.08 OBSTRUCTING DRAINAGE.
   It is unlawful to divert, obstruct, impede or fill up without legal
authority any ditch, drain or watercourse or to break down any levee lawfully
established, constructed or maintained.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.09 OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
    The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
   1.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
      A.   Section
105.07 – Littering Prohibited
   2.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
      A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
      B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
      C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
      D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
      E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
      F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
      G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
   3.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
      A.   Section
136.12 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
      B.   Section
136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
      C.   Section
136.16 – Defacing
      D.   Section
136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
      E.   Section
136.18 – Merchandise Display
      F.   Section
136.19 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[2])
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
any liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
   2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine or beer upon
the public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control
license. A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer
on public school property or while attending any public or private school-
related function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense.
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03 OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   [See Section
62.01(6) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04 SOCIAL HOST.
    A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
PARK REGULATIONS
46.01 Purpose                      46.10 Picnic Areas and Use
46.02 Definitions                  46.11 Behavior
46.03 Park Hours                   46.12 Vending and Peddling
46.04 Park Shelter                 46.13 Park Operating Policy
46.05 Use of Drives Required       46.14 Enforcement
46.06 Fires                        46.15 Special Permits
46.07 Waste Material and Littering 46.16 Extensions or Restrictions
46.08 Park Property                46.17 Fines
46.09 Traffic                       
 
46.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park
facilities by the general public by establishing rules and regulations
governing the use of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
46.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations have the meanings
given herein.
   1.   “Park” is a park, reservation, playground, recreation center, or any
other area in the City, owned or used by the City, and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   2.   “Vehicle” is any wheeled conveyance, whether motor powered, animal
drawn, or self-propelled. The term includes any trailer in tow of any size,
kind, or description. Exception is made for baby carriages and vehicles in the
service of the City park.
46.03 PARK HOURS.
   No person shall enter or remain within public park or City recreational
facility between the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. unless special permission
shall have been given by the City Council for such person or group of persons
to remain there.
46.04    PARK SHELTER.
   The shelter house located at 649 N. 44th Street, may be reserved for
meetings, gatherings, and organized events, upon receipt of a reservation and
payment of a fee. Such assemblages shall be conducted in a lawful and orderly
manner. The rental fees for the use of this facility are established by
resolution of the Council.
46.05 USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any car, cycle or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
46.06 FIRES.
   No fires shall be built, except in a place provided therefor, and such fire
shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be immediately
used by some other party.
46.07 WASTE MATERIALS AND LITTERING.
   No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter, or
foreign substance on the ground or in any area or receptacle in a park except
in receptacles provided for that purpose. Park waste receptacles shall not be
used for dumping trash or rubbish introduced in that form to the park.
46.08 PARK PROPERTY.
   No person in a park shall:
   1.   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or
remove, any building, bridge, table, bench, grill, railing, paving or paving
materials, water line or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances
thereof, signs, notices of placards whether temporary or permanent, monuments,
stakes posts or other boundary markers, or other structures or equipment,
facilities, or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or
personal.
   2.   Dig or remove any sand, soil, rock, stones, trees, shrubs or plants,
down timber or other wood or materials, or make any excavation by tool,
equipment, blasting or other means or agencies, except on special written
permit issued hereunder.
   3.   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind, whether
permanent or temporary in character, or run or string any public service
utility into, upon, or across such lands, except on special written permit
issued hereunder.
   4.   Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or plant or injure
the bark, or pick the flowers or seeds, of any tree or plant. A person shall
not dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas, or in any way injure or impair the
natural beauty or usefulness of any area.
   5.   Climb any tree or walk, stand or sit upon monuments, flower pots,
railings, fences or upon any other property not designated or customarily used
for such purposes.
   6.   Tie or hitch a horse or other animal to any tree or plant.
   7.   Hunt, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot or throw missiles
at any animal, reptile or bird; nor remove or have in possession the young of
any wild animal, or the eggs or nest, or young of any reptile or bird.
46.09 TRAFFIC.
    No person in a park shall:
   1.   Fail to comply with all applicable provisions of the State motor
vehicle traffic laws and the traffic laws of the City of Cumming in regard to
equipment and operation of vehicles together with such regulations as are
contained herein.
   2.   Fail to obey all traffic officers and public officials, such persons
being hereby authorized and instructed to direct traffic whenever and wherever
needed in the parks and on the highways, streets or roads immediately adjacent
thereto, in accordance with the provision of this chapter, as supplemented by
any other regulations or ordinances duly adopted and passed by the City.
   3.   Drive any vehicle on any area except the paved parking road or parking
areas, or such other areas as may on occasion be specified as temporary parking
area.
   4.   Parking.
      A.   Full park on any road or driveway at any time as to block traffic.
      B.   Double park any vehicle on any road or parkway unless directed by a
public official.
      C.   Park any vehicle in a designated person with disabilities parking
area, without a proper permit.
   5.   Bicycles.
      A.   Ride a bicycle on other than paved vehicular road or path designated
for that purpose. A bicyclist shall be permitted to wheel or push a bicycle by
hand over any grassy area or wooded trail or any paved area reserved for
pedestrian use.
      B.   Leave bicycles on the ground or paving, or set against trees, or in
any other place or position where other persons may trip over or be injured by
them.
46.10 PICNIC AREAS AND USE.
    No person in a park shall:
   1.   Fail to observe that tables and benches are used on a first come, first
served basis.
   2.   Use any portion of the picnic areas or park, or any other building or
structures therein, for the purpose of holding picnics to the exclusion of
other persons, or use such area and facilities for an unreasonable time if the
facilities are crowded, unless reserved by special permit.
   3.   Build or maintain, or in any way light a fire except in self-supporting
barbeque grills in places designated as picnic areas, provided on the premises
by the City for use in picnic cooking. Any fire shall be continuously under the
care and control of a competent adult, from the time it is kindled until it is
extinguished.
   4.   Camp, unless prior approval is obtained from the City Council.
   5.   Take part in or abet the playing of any games involving throwing or
otherwise propelling objects such as arrows, stones, javelins, shot puts, or
model airplanes except in areas set apart for such forms of recreations.
46.11 BEHAVIOR.
   No person in a park shall:
   1.   Bring, or have in possession, or set off or otherwise cause to explode
or discharge or burn, any firecrackers, torpedo, rocket, or other fireworks or
explosives of inflammable material, or discharge them or throw them into any
area except by permit issued by authorized City officials.
   2.   All dogs or other domestic animals shall be restrained at all times on
adequate leashes. No dog or other domestic animal shall be allowed to run at
large in any public park.
   3.   Build or attempt to build a fire except in such designated areas. No
person shall with malicious intent throw, or otherwise scatter lighted matches,
burning cigarettes or cigars or other inflammable material within any park area
or on any highway, road or street abutting or contiguous thereto.
   4.   Enter an area posted as “Closed to the Public” or use or abet the use
of any area in violation of posted notices.
   5.   Remain idle in essentially one location, which includes the concepts of
spending time idly, loafing, walking about aimlessly, and the colloquial
expression “hanging around.”
   6.   Engage in any loud, boisterous, threatening, abusive, insulting or
indecent language, or engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to
breach the public peace.
   7.   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or persons occupying
any area, or participating in any activity under the authority of a permit.
46.12 VENDING AND PEDDLING.
    No person in a park shall:
   1.   Expose or offer for sale any article or thing, except under authority
of a permit.
   2.   Announce, advertise, or call the public attention in any way to any
article or service for sale or hire, or paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any
sign, placard, advertisement or inscription whatever, nor shall any person
erect or cause to erect any sign whatever on any public land or highways or
roads adjacent to the park.
46.13 PARK OPERATING POLICY.
   1.   Parks shall be open to the public during the designated dates as set by
the City Council. The opening and closing hours for each individual park shall
be posted therein for public information.
   2.   Any section or part of the park may be declared closed to the public.
   3.   The finding of lost articles shall be reported to the office of the
City Clerk, who shall make every reasonable effort to locate the owner.
   4.   Special permits may be issued by the City Council with reference to
extraordinary or unusual uses of the park system in question. Such permits may
be obtained for conventions, concerts, sporting events and similar uses
resulting in the accumulating of unusual crowds. Such permits shall be within
the discretion of the City Council, which shall review the application in
question, and either allow or deny said application. In the event of a denial,
said denial shall contain a statement with reference to reasons for such
action.
46.14 ENFORCEMENT.
    The designated representatives of the City shall, in addition to the police
force, have the authority to eject from the park any person acting in violation
of this chapter. Such representatives shall be State, County, or City officials
or auxiliary police.
46.15 SPECIAL PERMITS.
    The Council reserves the right and shall have the authority to issue
special permits to groups or individuals pursuant to applications made by said
persons with reference to exclusive or overtime use of any portion of City-
owned parks, which permit may restrict the use and either limit or extend said
use with reference to the foregoing access time limitations.
46.16 EXTENSIONS OR RESTRICTIONS.
    The Council may, by resolution, extend or restrict the hours of public
access with reference to City-owned parks, and may in its discretion at any
time restrict public access to said parks.
46.17 FINES.
    Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine in the sum of $25.00 for the first offense, a fine in the sum
of $50.00 for the second offense, and a fine in the sum of $75.00 for a third
and subsequent office.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.04 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.05 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Nuisances Prohibited   50.06 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
 
50.01 DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
   Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
   7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
   8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
   9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
   10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 150)
   11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within
1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-
off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or
enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting or breaches of the peace are carried on
or permitted to the disturbance of others.
50.03 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance,
public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.04 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.05 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.06. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.05 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
    Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for
in this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall
contain:  †   
      A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.
   2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council
at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   3.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
subsection 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   4.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   5.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County
Finance Officer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same
manner as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   6.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   7.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  †
   EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the
  use of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of
�abatement is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a
  nuisance does in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and
  hearings, we recommend you review the situation with your attorney before
  proceeding with abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend
  proceedings in court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this
  procedure.
50.06 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
    In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.05, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance  
 
51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances; iron, steel
or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tinware,
plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly stacked
firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
   2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the
County Treasurer or unlicensed or having any of the following characteristics:
      A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield,
window, headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
      B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel or trunk lid.
      C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
      E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
      F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
the public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
   3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02 JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on
any private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03 JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within a garage or other enclosed structure.
51.05 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
WEEDS AND GRASS
 
52.01 Purpose                       52.06 Enforcement
52.02 Definitions                   52.07 Cost of Cutting or Destruction
52.03 Cutting Specifications and    52.08 Exceptions to Height Restrictions
Standards of Practice
52.04 Uniform Height Specifications 52.09 Non-Compliance; Assessment of Costs
52.05 Noxious Weeds                  
 
52.01 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to beautify and preserve the appearance of
the City by requiring property owners and occupants to maintain grass lawns at
a uniform height within the boundaries of their property and on abutting street
right-of-way in order to prevent unsightly, offensive or nuisance conditions.
52.02 DEFINITIONS.
    For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Brush” means undergrowth, small trees and shrubs.
   2.   “Curb,” “curb line,” or “curbing” means the outer boundaries of a
street at the edge of that portion of the street usually traveled by vehicular
traffic.
   3.   “Cut” or “mow” means to mechanically maintain the growth of grass,
weeds or brush at a uniform height.
   4.   “Mowing season” means the period beginning April 1 and ending October
31.
   5.   “Owner” means a person owning private property in the City and any
person occupying private property in the City.
   6.   “Parking” means that part of a street in the City not covered by a
sidewalk and lying between the lot line or property line and the curb line; or
on unpaved streets, that part of the street lying between the lot line or
property line and that portion of the street traveled by vehicular traffic.
52.03 CUTTING SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE.
   1.   Every owner shall cut, mow and maintain grass, weeds and brush upon the
owner’s property to a uniform height as defined in Section
52.04(1).
   2.   Every owner shall cut, mow and maintain grass, weeds and brush adjacent
to the curb line, or outer boundary of any street, which includes the parking
area abutting the owner’s property.
52.04 UNIFORM HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS.
   1.   Grass, weeds or brush on private property shall be cut, mowed and
maintained so as not to exceed the following height specifications:
      A.   Developed Residential Areas – not to exceed six inches.
      B.   Undeveloped Residential Areas – not to exceed six inches.
      C.   Business and Industrial Areas – not to exceed six inches.
      D.   Agriculture Areas – not to exceed 15 inches.
      E.   All Other Areas – not to exceed six inches.
52.05 NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   1.   Every owner shall cut and control noxious weeds upon the owner’s
property and adjacent to the curb line or outer boundary of any street, which
includes the parking area abutting the owner’s property by cutting noxious
weeds to ground level or use of herbicides to eliminate or eradicate such
weeds.
   2.   Noxious weeds include any weed growth or plant designated as noxious by
the State Department of Natural Resources rules and regulations or by the Code
of Iowa.
52.06 ENFORCEMENT.
    All grass or weeds or other vegetation exceeding such height restrictions
may be cut or eliminated by the City after giving five days’ written notice to
the owner or occupant of such property. Such notice may be mailed, by ordinary
mail, to the owner’s last address, no less than five days prior to the required
action. A failure to receive such notice shall not be deemed to be a defense to
any assessment certified under this section.
52.07 COST OF CUTTING OR DESTRUCTION.
   1.   After the City has completed the cutting or destruction of weeds, the
Council shall determine, as to each tract of real estate, the actual cost of
the labor and materials used by the City in cutting, burning, or otherwise
destroying said grass, weeds or tall vegetation, including the cost of serving
notice to the property owners. To the total of all such sums expended, the
Council shall then add $50.00 to compensate for the cost of supervision of the
administration.
   2.   The Clerk shall send a statement of the total expense incurred by
certified mail to the property owner who has failed to abide by the notice to
abate. The property owner has 30 days to pay the amount shown on the statement.
   3.   If the amount is not paid within 30 days, the City Engineer shall, as
required under the provisions of Section 384.59 of the Code of Iowa, prepare a
plat and schedule of the several lots, tracts of land, or parcels of ground to
be assessed, which shall be in accord with the assessor’s records, and the
amount proposed to be assessed against each of the same, for destroying,
cutting or otherwise controlling grass and weeds upon said property during the
fiscal year.
   4.   The Council shall thereupon fix a time for the hearing on such proposed
assessments, which time shall be no later than December 15 of the year, and at
least 15 days prior to the time thus fixed for such hearing, shall give notice
thereof to all concerned that such plat or schedule is on file, and that the
amounts as shown therein will be assessed against the several lots, tracts, or
lands or parcels of ground described in said tract or schedule at the time
fixed for such hearing, unless objection is made thereto. Notice of such
hearing shall be given by publication in the newspaper designated by the City,
not less than 10 days before the date of the hearing. At such time and place,
the owner of said premises, or anyone liable to pay such assessment, may appear
with the same rights given by law to property owners who protest other special
assessments.
   5.   After the hearing, the City shall assess the resulting sum against said
tract of real estate, which shall be certified to the County Treasurer by the
Clerk, and shall be placed upon the tax books, and collected, together with
interest and penalties, in the same manner as other unpaid taxes. When
collected, the funds shall be paid in the general fund.
52.08 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
    Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to restrict the planting and
cultivation of any crop raised or harvested for use or sale for agricultural
purposes, such as corn, soybeans, hay or other generally recognizable
agricultural crops.
52.09 NONCOMPLIANCE; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
    In the event it is necessary for the Council to execute any order, as
authorized by Section
52.07, the Clerk shall certify the cost thereof to the County Treasurer, which
cost shall be collected with and in the same manner as general property taxes.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                  55.10 Rabies Vaccination
55.02 Animal Neglect               55.11 Owner’s Duty
55.03 Livestock Neglect            55.12 Confinement
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs 55.13 At Large: Impoundment
55.05 Livestock                    55.14 Disposition of Animals
55.06 At Large Prohibited          55.15 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.07 Damage or Interference       55.16 Sanitation
55.08 Annoyance or Disturbance     55.17 Limit of Number of Dogs or Cats
                                   Allowed
55.09 Vicious Dogs                  
 
55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium
including but not limited to print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag or articulation.
   2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
   3.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the
control of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in
a veterinary hospital or kennel.
   4.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
      A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
      B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
      C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
      D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
   5.   “Fair” means any of the following:
      A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
      C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
   6.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in
Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
   7.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas and emus; farm deer as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa; or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
   8.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering or harboring an
animal.
   9.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
55.02 ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines, in any place, an
animal, excluding livestock, to fail to supply the animal during confinement
with a sufficient quantity of food or water, or to fail to provide a confined
dog or cat with adequate shelter, or to torture, deprive of necessary
sustenance, mutilate, beat, or kill such animal by any means that causes
unjustified pain, distress or suffering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
55.03 LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
    It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place
to fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04 ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
   A person who has ownership or custody of a cat or dog shall not abandon the
cat or dog, except the person may deliver the cat or dog to another person who
will accept ownership and custody or the person may deliver the cat or dog to
an animal shelter or pound.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
55.05 LIVESTOCK.
   It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock of any kind other than that
which is allowed by this Code of Ordinances or except in compliance with the
City’s zoning regulations. See
Chapter 56 for Urban Chickens for permit requirements.
55.06 AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07 DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.08 ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles or other vehicles.
55.09 VICIOUS DOGS.
   It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious dog within the
City. A dog is deemed to be vicious when it has attacked or bitten any person
without provocation, or when propensity to attack or bite persons exists and is
known or ought reasonably to be known to the owner.
55.10 RABIES VACCINATION.
   Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It
is unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession,
six months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies. Dogs
kept in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are
not subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.11 OWNER’S DUTY.
   It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten
or attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.12 CONFINEMENT.
   If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs. If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
shall pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.13 AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
   Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded, or at the discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a
summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
55.14 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
    When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal. Impounded animals may be recovered by
the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an unvaccinated dog, by
having it immediately vaccinated. If the owner fails to redeem the animal
within seven days from the date that the notice is mailed, or if the owner
cannot be located within seven days, the animal shall be disposed of in
accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)
55.15 PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
   1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
      A.   A prize for participating in a game.
      B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
      C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
      D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care or disposition of the pet.
   2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
      B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.16 SANITATION.
   It is the duty of every person owning or having custody or control of an
animal to clean up, remove and dispose of the feces deposited by such animal
upon public property, park property, public right-of-way or the property of
another person.
55.17 LIMIT OF NUMBER OF DOGS OR CATS ALLOWED.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner or occupant of a dwelling unit or
residence, as defined in Chapter 165 of the Cumming Code, to harbor or house on
or about the premises more than the following number of dogs and cats over the
age of six months unless otherwise authorized in the Cumming Zoning Code.
      1.   Three dogs.
      2.   Three cats.
      3.   A combination of five dogs and cats.
Persons who own, possess, or keep more than five animals per household on the
effective date of the ordinance codified † in this section shall be permitted
to continue to own, possess, or keep those animals only, but shall not be
permitted to replace an animal which dies, is sold, transferred, or otherwise
disposed of until the total number of animals per household is decreased to
five.
(Ch. 55 - Ord. 2020-03 - Nov. 20 Supp.)
 
 
Notes
�EDITOR'S NOTE: Section 55.17 was adopted with Ordinance No. 2020-03 on
  September 14, 2020.
CHAPTER 56
URBAN CHICKENS
 
56.01 Definitions            56.06 Chicken Requirements
56.02 Permits Granted/Denied 56.07 Coop Requirements
56.03 Neighbor Consent       56.08 Pen Requirements
56.04 Terms of Permit        56.09 Permit Revocation
56.05 Site Requirements      56.10 Fees
 
56.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Chicken” means a member of the subspecies of Gallus domesticus, a
domesticated chicken.
   2.   “Coop” means a cage, enclosure or building used for housing and
protecting chickens from weather and predators.
   3.   “Feeder” means a device or apparatus for supplying food.
   4.   “Nesting box” means a three-sided box with a floor where chickens rest
and lay eggs, located in the coop.
   5.   “Pen” means an enclosure for chickens which allows freedom of movement
but also prevents escape.
   6.   “Roost” means a support on which chickens rest.
   7.   “Rooster” means a male chicken.
56.02 PERMITS GRANTED/DENIED.
   The City Council may issue an Urban Chicken permit if:
   1.   The property has passed inspection.
   2.   The application fee has been paid.
   3.   There are no outstanding violations of local, State, or federal law on
the property.
   4.   The location, coop, and pen meet all the requirements of this policy.
   5.   The application is complete and a complete, accurate and clear site
plan is included.
   6.   If it is a renewal, all outstanding reinspection fees have been paid.
   7.   Permits are not required in areas zoned as Agriculture District.
56.03 NEIGHBOR CONSENT.
   1.   No permit shall be issued without the written consent of the owners of
adjacent properties. All necessary consent forms are required to be filed with
the application.
   2.   Adjacent property means all parcels of property that share a property
line with the applicant’s property including properties that contact each other
only at one point.
   3.   No coop or pen may be located within 50 feet of a school, park, or
licensed day care center.
56.04 TERMS OF PERMIT.
    The permit shall contain, at a minimum the following conditions:
   1.   The permittee shall follow the City Code and state law regarding animal
care.
   2.   The permit will be issued for one year.
   3.   The permittee grants the City the right to inspect the coop and pen at
any time after the permit is issued and at any other time to investigate a
complaint, with notice of 24 hours.
   4.   The permit is granted to the land owner and expires automatically if
the property is sold.
   5.   Private restrictions on the use of the property shall remain
enforceable and shall supersede the permit. The private restrictions include,
but are not limited to, deed restrictions, condominium restrictions,
neighborhood association bylaws, covenants and restrictions, and rental
agreements. A permit issued to a person whose property is subject to private
restrictions that prohibit keeping chickens is void.
56.05 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   The property must be a single-family residence.
   2.   A tenant must obtain the landlord’s written permission to install a
coop.
   3.   Coops/pens cannot be within 25 feet from any neighboring habitable
structure.
   4.   Coops/pens cannot be located within five feet of the habitable
structure on the applicant property.
   5.   Coops/pens cannot be located within 15 feet of the property line.
   6.   Coops and pens shall be located only in the back yard. Back yard means
“rear yard,” as defined in the City Zoning Code.
56.06 CHICKEN REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   No more than six hens are allowed.
   2.   Roosters are prohibited.
   3.   Chickens must be housed in the coop/pen at all times.
   4.   Slaughtering of a chicken is prohibited.
   5.   Selling of eggs and chickens is prohibited, and is limited to use by
the permit holder.
   6.   Eggs shall be removed within two days of being laid.
   7.   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of chickens shall
be protected in a manner to prevent rodents from gaining access to or coming
into contact with them.
   8.   Adequate food, water and shelter shall be provided at all times.
   9.   A chicken that is outside the pen is “at large” and in violation of
this Code of Ordinances.
56.07 COOP REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Coops shall be constructed, repaired, and maintained in a manor to
prevent rodents from being harbored underneath or within the walls of the
enclosures.
   2.   Coops shall be built of solid materials such as wood, metal or plastic.
   3.   Coop floors shall be made of wood or cement set a minimum of one foot
above ground level with a slight slope toward the door or other opening to
prevent puddling.
   4.   Coops shall have at least one solid door and window that can be opened
for ventilation. The door of said coop should not face an adjacent landowner’s
property.
   5.   A minimum of four square feet of space shall be provided per bird
inside a coop.
   6.   Bedding shall consist of wood pellets, pine shavings, or similar
material shall be provided to reduce odor. Straw may not be used for bedding.
Feces shall be removed and disposed of in a sealed, enclosed container at a
minimum of once weekly to avoid odor.
   7.   Coops shall:
      A.   Be maintained to ensure proper sanitation for maintaining the health
of the chickens and the keepers.
      B.   Be easy to clean and with good drainage.
      C.   Protect the flock from extreme temperatures and wind.
      D.   Keep out rodents, raptors and other predatory animals.
      E.   Be well ventilated.
      F.   Be free of drafts and maintain a uniform temperature.
      G.   Have a roosting area sufficient in number and size for the chickens
present.
      H.   Have one nesting box per chicken.
      I.   Have nests that entice hens to lie indoors.
      J.   Offer plenty of light, both natural and artificial.
      K.   Provide heat in colder temperatures.
      L.   Include sanitary feed and water stations.
      M.   Be constructed in such a manner that allows easy access for adequate
cleaning.
      N.   Be built in a well-drained area to prevent standing water.
      O.   Be large enough to house chickens adequately.
      P.   No other non-human vertebra can be kept in the coop or pen.
56.08 PEN REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   There shall be a minimum of four square feet of space per chicken.
   2.   There must be a well-drained area that allows the chickens to have
access to dry ground at all times.
   3.   Feces shall be removed and disposed of in a sealed, enclosed container
at a minimum of once weekly to avoid odor.
   4.   Fecal matter may be used as fertilizer if turned completely into the
soil at least once weekly and there is no noxious odor.
56.09 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   1.   The City Council is authorized to revoke a permit whenever:
      A.   The permittee has failed to comply with this policy.
      B.   The permittee has violated this Code of Ordinances.
      C.   The permittee has misstated any material fact in the application.
      D.   There is a substantial and material variance between the information
in the application and the actual facts or those facts which appear reasonably
to have occurred.
      E.   The permittee is operating in violation of the terms and conditions
of the permit.
   2.   A permittee may appeal the revocation in the same manner as appealing
the denial of a permit.
56.10 FEES.
   1.   The fee for the initial permit is $125.00.
   2.   The fee to renew the permit is $100.00.
   3.   If the City issues the permittee a Notice of Violation and if the
permittee has not cured the violation when the property is re-inspected, the
permittee shall be assessed a reinspection fee of $75.00, which is due in 30
days. If the violation has been cured, no reinspection fee shall be assessed.
   4.   The fine for noncompliance is $250.00 per day to cover any fees
incurred.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.08 Parades Regulated
 
60.01 TITLE.
   Chapters 60 through 70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as
the “Cumming Traffic Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code.”)
60.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law,
such definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
   1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when 50 percent or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300
feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
   2.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   3.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   4.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
   5.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
   6.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   7.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   8.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   9.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
   10.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   11.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or
alley.
60.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the peace officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04 POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the
Fire Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the
event of an emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 & 321.236[2])
60.05 REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the
City shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06 PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
   A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07 OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08 PARADES REGULATED.
   No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
   1.   Definition. “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or
vehicles organized for marching or moving on the streets in an organized
fashion or manner or any march or procession of persons or vehicles represented
or advertised to the public as a parade.
   2.   Permit Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining a
written permit from the Mayor or Council. Such permit shall state the time and
date for the parade to be held and the streets or general route therefor. Such
written permit granted to the person organizing or sponsoring the parade shall
be permission for all participants therein to parade when such participants
have been invited by the permittee to participate therein. No fee shall be
required for such permit.
   3.   Parade Not a Street Obstruction. Any parade for which a permit has been
issued as herein required, and the persons lawfully participating therein,
shall not be deemed an obstruction of the streets notwithstanding the
provisions of any other ordinance to the contrary.
   4.   Control by Police and Firefighters. Persons participating in any parade
shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in the
performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01 INSTALLATION.
   The peace officer shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency
or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or
warn traffic. The peace officer shall keep a record of all such traffic control
devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02 CROSSWALKS.
   The peace officer is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council
by resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic
control devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is
particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such
other places as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.03 TRAFFIC LANES.
   The peace officer is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.04 STANDARDS.
   Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05 COMPLIANCE.
   No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official
traffic control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, unless at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under
Section 321.231 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.04 Clinging to Vehicle
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.05 Quiet Zones
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
 
62.01 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of
a peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Display of Registration and License to Drive: 321.17, 321.32, 321.37,
321.38, 321.57, 321.67, 321.78, 321.79, 321.91, 321.98, 321.99, 321.104,
321.115, 321.174, 321.174A, 321.180, 321.180B, 321.193, 321.194, 321.208A,
321.216, 321.216B, 321.216C and 321.218 through 321.224.
   2.   All-Terrain Vehicles, Golf Carts, and Bicycles to Obey Traffic
Regulations, Speed Detection Jamming Devices, Road Workers: 321.232 through
321.234A, 235A and 321.247.
   3.   Traffic Signs, Signals, and Markings: 321.259 and 321.260.
   4.   Accidents and Accident Reporting: 321.262 through 321.266.
   5.   Operation of Motorcycles and Motorized Bicycles: 321.275.
   6.   Drag Racing; Speed; Open Containers; Control of Vehicle: 321.276,
321.277, 321.277A, 321.278, 321.281, 321.284, 321.284A, 321.288, 321.295,
321.333, 321.382 and 321.383.
   7.   Driving on Right, Meeting, Overtaking, Following, or Towing: 321.297
through 321.299 and 321.302 through 321.310.
   8.   Turning and Starting, Signals on Turning and Stopping: 321.312 through
321.318.
   9.   Right-of-Way: 321.319 through 321.324A.
   10.   Pedestrian Rights and Duties and Safety Zones: 321.329, 321.330,
321.332, 321.333, and 321.340.
   11.   Railroad Crossings: 321.341 through 321.344 and 321.344B.
   12.   Stopping, Standing, Parking: 321.354 and 321.359.
   13.   Unattended Vehicle, Obstructing Driver’s View, Crossing Median,
Following Fire Apparatus, or Crossing Fire Hose, and Putting Glass, Etc., on
Streets: 321.362 through 321.365 and 321.367 through 321.371.
   14.   School Buses: 321.372.
   15.   Lighting Equipment Required and Time of Use: 321.384 through 321.390,
321.392 through 321.395, 321.398, 321.402 through 321.405, 321.408, 321.409,
321.415, 321.417 through 321.423. In accordance with authorization granted by
Section 321.395, Code of Iowa, motor vehicles parked upon any street where
permitted by this chapter need not display required lights where there is
sufficient light emitted from City street lights to reveal any person or object
within a distance of 500 feet upon such street.
   16.   Brakes, Horns, Sirens, Mufflers, Wipers, Mirrors, Tires, Flares,
Windows, Safety Belts, and Special Markings for Transporting Explosives:
321.430 through 321.434; 321.436 through 321.442; 321.444 through 321.446,
321.449, 321.449A, 321.449B, and 321.450.
   17.   Size, Weight, and Load: 321.454 through 321.458, 321.460 through
321.463, 321.465 and 321.466.
   18.   Unsafe Vehicles: 321.381 and 321.381A.
62.02 PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
    The peace officer shall have authority to declare any street or part
thereof a play street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in
the roadway indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized
signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no
person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except
drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed
area, and then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon
any such street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area
except at a driveway.
62.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05 QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06 OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
   It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to
obstruct the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear
view of traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such
obstruction is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be
abated in the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                             63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits             63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots  
 
63.01 GENERAL.
   Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
of any other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on
any street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a
stop within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02 STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
   The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
   1.   Business District – 20 miles per hour.
   2.   Residence or School District – 25 miles per hour.
   3.   Suburban District – 45 miles per hour.
63.03 PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
   A speed in excess of 15 miles per hour in any public park, cemetery, or
parking lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is
unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04 SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
   In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
   1.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   North 35th Street from Cumming Avenue to 1/4 mile north of the north
boundary of the Prairie Shores Subdivision.
      B.   North 60th Street from Cumming Avenue to the north boundary of the
City limits.
   2.   Special 45 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 45 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Cumming Avenue (Highway G14) from North 20th Street (R45 Hwy) to the
existing 35 miles per hour zone west of North 35th Street (30th Avenue).
      B.   Cumming Avenue (Highway G14) from North 60th Street (Warren/Madison
County Line) to the existing 35 miles per hour zone west of the Great Western
Bike Trail.
      C.   S. Orilla Road from Cumming Ave (Highway G14) to the north boundary
of the City limits.
(Pargraph C - Ord. 2021-08 - May 22 Supp.)
63.05 MINIMUM SPEED.
   A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede
or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one- way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
The Mayor may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent
to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions require,
that a different course from that specified above be traveled by vehicles
turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
64.02 U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Stop Required                 65.04 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.02 Three-Way Stop Intersections  65.05 Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks
65.03 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk 65.06 Four-Way Stop Intersections
 
65.01 STOP REQUIRED.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   North 44th Street. Vehicles traveling south on North 44th Street shall
stop at Cumming Avenue.
   2.   North Alice Avenue. Vehicles traveling west on North Alice Avenue shall
stop at North 44th Street.
   3.   North Alice Avenue. Vehicles traveling east on North Alice Avenue shall
stop at North 43rd Street.
   4.   North 34th Street. Vehicles traveling south on North 34th Street shall
stop at Cumming Avenue.
   5.   North Cattail Creek. (Repealed by Ordinance No. 2021-07 - May 22
Supp.).
   6.   North 34th Street. Vehicles traveling north on North 34th Street shall
stop at North Cattail Creek.
   7.   North Blue Heron Circle. Vehicles traveling west on North Blue Heron
Circle shall stop at North 34th Street.
   8.   North Doe Run Street. Vehicles traveling west on North Doe Run Street
shall stop at North 35th Street.
   9.   North Fernwood Drive. Vehicles traveling west on North Fernwood Drive
shall stop at North 35th Street.
   10.   North 29th Street. Vehicles traveling south on North 29th Street shall
stop at Cumming Avenue.
   11.   North Birch Avenue. Vehicles traveling on North Birch Avenue shall
stop at North 29th Street.
65.02 THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following
designated four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   North 43rd Street and Cumming Avenue. Vehicles approaching the
intersection of North 43rd Street and Cumming Avenue from the north, east and
west shall stop before entering such intersection.
   2.   North 43rd Street and North Fielding Avenue. Vehicles approaching the
intersection of North 43rd Street and North Fielding Avenue from the south,
north and west shall stop before entering such intersection.
65.03 STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.04 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
   Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.05 YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
   Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver
of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need
be, to yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk
or within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
65.06 FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Each driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following four-way
stop intersection(s):
(Code of Iowa, Sc. 321.345)
   1.   North 35th, Callison Avenue, and North Cattail Creek. Vehicles
approaching the intersection of North 35th, Callison Avenue, and North Cattail
Creek from the north, south, east and west shall stop before entering such
intersection.
(Section 65.06 – Ord. 2021-07 – May 22 Supp.)
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.05 Truck Routes
66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets    
 
66.01 TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
   If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets
will be seriously damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an
amount specified by the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so
designated by such signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 & 472)
66.02 PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
   The Mayor may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a special
permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the maximum
specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named in the
permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the City is
responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 321E)
66.03 LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 475)
- NONE -
66.04 LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
   Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than
the maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Council may cause to be posted and maintained signs on said bridge
and at suitable distances ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers of
such maximum load limits. No person shall drive upon said bridge any vehicle
weighing, loaded or unloaded, in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
66.05 TRUCK ROUTES.
   Truck route regulations are established as follows:
   1.   Truck Routes Designated. Every motor vehicle weighing 10,000 pounds or
more, when loaded or empty, having no fixed terminal within the City or making
no scheduled or definite stops within the City for the purpose of loading or
unloading shall travel over or upon the following streets within the City and
none other:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
- NONE -
   2.   Deliveries Off Truck Route. Any motor vehicle weighing 10,000 pounds or
more, when loaded or empty, having a fixed terminal, making a scheduled or
definite stop within the City for the purpose of loading or unloading shall
proceed over or upon the designated routes set out in this section to the
nearest point of its scheduled or definite stop and shall proceed thereto, load
or unload, and return by the most direct route to its point of departure from
said designated route.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   3.   Employer’s Responsibility. The owner or any other person employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle shall not require or knowingly
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to
this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking
 
67.01 WALKING IN STREET.
   Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on
the left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02 HITCHHIKING.
   No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03 PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
   Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than
permitted cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when
appropriate signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
- NONE -
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb        69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets   69.08 No Parking Zones
69.03 Angle Parking                69.09 Truck Parking Limited
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking      69.10 Snow Removal
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes 69.11 Snow Routes
Illegal
69.06 Parking Prohibited           69.12 Loading Zones
 
69.01 PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking
and vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02 PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03 ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
   1.   North 44th Street, on the west side, from Cumming Avenue to North Alice
Avenue.
69.04 MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked
for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an
angle to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as
indicated by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load
thereon, when said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall
extend into the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right
angles to the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 36 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
   3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
   4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a
duly established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code
of Ordinances.
69.06 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
   2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
   5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
   6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
   7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
   9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
   10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
   11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
   12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
   13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
   17.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07 PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
   The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of
persons with disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08 NO PARKING ZONES.
   No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following
specifically designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace
officer or traffic control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   North 43rd Street, on the west side, from Cumming Avenue to Alice
Avenue.
   2.   Alice Avenue, on the south side, from North 44th Street to North 43rd
Street.
   3.   Alice Avenue, on the south side, from North 43rd Street to the east end
of the street.
   4.   Birch Avenue, on the south side, from North 44th Street to North 43rd
Street.
   5.   North 43rd Street, on the west side, from Birch Avenue to Callison
Avenue.
   6.   N. Callison Avenue, on the south side from North 44th Street to North
43rd Street.
   7.   N. Callison Avenue, on the south side, from North 43rd to the east end
of the street.
   8.   N. Dawson Avenue, on the south side from North 44th Street to North
43rd Street.
   9.   N. Dawson Avenue, on the south side, from North 43rd to the east end of
the street.
   10.   Cumming Avenue, on the north side, from North 44th Street to North
43rd Street (from north side of sidewalk to center of roadway).
   11.   Cumming Avenue, on the south side, from North 44th Street to North
43rd Street (from existing fence line to center of roadway).
(Section 69.08 – Ord. 2020-08 – May 22 Supp.)
69.09 TRUCK PARKING LIMITED.
   No person shall park a semi-trailer, passenger bus used for commercial or
school purposes, any vehicle in excess of five (5) tons, or other motor vehicle
with trailer attached with total weight in excess of five (5) tons in violation
of the following regulations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
      1.   Streets. Excepting only when such vehicle are actually engaged in
the delivery or receiving of merchandise or cargo, no person shall park or
leave unattended such vehicle, on any street within the City except for
designated parking areas on the City truck routes. When actually receiving or
delivering merchandise or cargo such vehicle shall be stopped or parked in a
manner which will not interfere with other traffic.
      2.   Noise. (Repealed by Ordinance No. 2021-05 - May 22 Supp.)
      3.   Livestock. No such vehicle containing livestock shall e parked on
any street or highway for a period of time of more than thirty (30) minutes.
(Section 69.09 - Ord. 2020.04 - Nov. 20 Supp.)
69.10 SNOW REMOVAL.
   No person shall park, abandon or leave unattended any vehicle on any public
street, alley, or City-owned off-street parking area during snow removal
operations unless the snow has been removed or plowed from said street, alley
or parking area and the snow has ceased to fall.
(Code of Iowa, 321.236[1])
69.11 SNOW ROUTES.
   The Council may designate certain streets in the City as snow routes. When
conditions of snow or ice exist on the traffic surface of a designated snow
route, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to impede or block traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[12])
69.12 LOADING ZONES.
    It is unlawful to park any vehicle in any areas designated and properly
marked as a loading zone, except while expeditiously loading or unloading.
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation          70.04 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                  Parking
70.02 Scheduled Violations        70.05 Impounding Vehicles
70.03 Parking Violations: Vehicle
Unattended
 
70.01 ARREST OR CITATION.
   Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
   2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 & 321.485)
70.02 SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
   For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of
the Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of
those violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 & 805.8A)
70.03 PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
    When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code,
and the driver is not present, the citation as herein provided shall be
attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.04 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
   1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
   2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.05 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
   4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can be
located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                           75.06 Negligence
75.02 Definitions                       75.07 Accident Reports
75.03 General Regulations               75.08 Dead Man Throttle
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles          75.09 Towing
75.05 Operation of All-Terrain Vehicles
 
75.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks, that
has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled by
the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 1” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 2” includes vehicles, other than
type 1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of
65 inches or less.
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 3” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or
both.
   An operator of an off-road utility vehicle is also subject to the provisions
of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
   4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000
pounds, that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a
width of 48 inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and
is designed for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-
terrain vehicle that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type
tracks, or treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle or off-road utility
vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G & Ch. 321I)
75.04 OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets that have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
   2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:
      A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
      B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
         (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
   4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
   5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any
park, playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
   6.   Private Property. No snowmobile shall be operated upon private property
without the express consent of the owner thereof.
   7.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05 OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   The operators of ATVs shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where ATVs may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles may be operated on streets
only in accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa or on such streets
as may be designated by resolution of the Council for the operation of
registered ATVs or registered off- road utility vehicles. In designating such
streets, the Council may authorize ATVs and off-road utility vehicles to stop
at service stations or convenience stores along a designated street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 & 3])
   2.   Trails. ATVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except where
designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. An ATV may be driven directly across a railroad right-
of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other provisions
of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the established crossing
after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
   4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs shall not be operated in any park,
playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express permission
of the City.
   5.   Private Property. No ATV shall be operated upon private property
without the express consent of the owner thereof.
   6.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
   7.   Direct Crossing. An all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle may
make a direct crossing of a highway provided all of the following occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing.
      B.   The all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle is brought to a
complete stop before crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
      C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
      D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
      E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway designated
as an all-terrain vehicle trail by a state agency, county, or city to a street,
roadway, or highway designated as an all-terrain vehicle trail by a state
agency, county, or city.
75.06 NEGLIGENCE.
   The owner and operator of an ATV or snowmobile are liable for any injury or
damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV or snowmobile. The
owner of an ATV or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or damage
only if the owner was the operator of the ATV or snowmobile at the time the
injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent to operate
the ATV or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 & 321I.19)
75.07 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   Whenever an ATV or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in injury
or death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either
the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law
enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 & 321I.11)
75.08 DEAD MAN THROTTLE.
    No snowmobile or ATV shall be operated within the City unless equipped with
a “dead man throttle,” which, when pressure is removed from the accelerator or
throttle, causes the engine to be disengaged from the drive mechanism.
75.09 TOWING.
    No item shall be towed by a snowmobile or ATV unless coupled to said
snowmobile or ATV by a rigid tow bar.
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Improper Riding
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Parking
76.05 Speed                           76.12 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Emerging from Alley or Driveway 76.13 Special Penalty
76.07 Carrying Articles
 
76.01 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street
or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02 TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to those provisions that by their nature can have no
application. Whenever such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be
subject to all regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03 DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04 TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
that prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
   1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the Business District, as defined in Section
60.02(1) of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09 TOWING.
   It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any
other vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured
for such use.
76.10 IMPROPER RIDING.
   No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
   1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a
distance of at least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except
that a red reflector on the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
   2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13 SPECIAL PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second offense
and 30 days for a third offense.
CHAPTER 77
GOLF CARTS
 
77.01 Purpose                           77.04 Equipment
77.02 Operation of Golf Carts Permitted 77.05 Hours
77.03 Prohibited Streets                77.06 Registration
 
77.01 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts on
streets in the City as authorized by Section 321.247 of the Code of Iowa. This
chapter applies whenever a golf cart is operated on any street or alley.
77.02 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS PERMITTED.
    Golf carts may be operated upon the streets of the City by persons
possessing a valid driver’s license, except as prohibited in Section
77.03 of this chapter.
77.03 PROHIBITED STREETS.
    Golf carts shall not be operated upon any City street that is a primary
road extension through the City. However, golf carts may cross such a primary
road extension. Golf carts shall not be operated upon a City street that has a
speed limit greater than 25 miles per hour.
77.04 EQUIPMENT.
    Golf carts operated upon City streets shall be equipped with a slow- moving
vehicle sign and a bicycle safety flag at all times during operation and shall
be equipped with adequate brakes. Golf carts operated on the streets shall meet
any other safety requirement imposed by the City.
77.05 HOURS.
    Golf carts may be operated on City streets only between sunrise and sunset.
77.06 REGISTRATION.
    Golf carts are not subject to registration provisions.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                     80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of 80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                    Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                  80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Notification in Newspaper       80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] & Sec. 321.90)
   1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
      A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than 24 hours.
      C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 24 hours.
      D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
      E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
   2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
   3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02 AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request
of any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic,
shall take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take
into custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority
may employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private
entity, equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving,
storing, or disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person
in control of private property may employ a private entity that is a garage
keeper to dispose of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into
custody the abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a
police authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the
police authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses
of the registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03 NOTICE BY MAIL.
   The police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall notify, within 20 days, by certified mail, the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or to personal property found in the vehicle, addressed
to the parties’ last known addresses of record, that the abandoned vehicle has
been taken into custody. Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice
shall describe the year, make, model and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, describe the personal property found in the vehicle, set forth the
location of the facility where the vehicle is being held, and inform the
persons receiving the notice of their right to reclaim the vehicle and personal
property within 10 days after the effective date of the notice upon payment of
all towing, preservation, and storage charges resulting from placing the
vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of the notice. The notice
shall also state that the failure of the owner, lienholders or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders and claimants
of all right, title, claim and interest in the vehicle or personal property and
that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is deemed consent to
the sale of the vehicle at a public auction or disposal of the vehicle to a
demolisher and to disposal of the personal property by sale or destruction. If
the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity without a
police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the private entity
may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90 of the Code of
Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the vehicle. If the abandoned
vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or by a private entity
hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that any person claiming
rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who disputes the
planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police authority or
private entity or of the assessment of fees and charges provided by this
section may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority to
contest those matters. If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing
or exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
10-day reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders or claimants shall no longer
have any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal
property. A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right,
title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders or claimants after the
expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.04 NOTIFICATION IN NEWSPAPER.
   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Section
80.03. The published notice may contain multiple listings of abandoned vehicles
and personal property but shall be published within the same time requirements
and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice in Section
80.03.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3b])
80.05 FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay $25.00 if claimed within five
days of impounding, plus $5.00 for each additional day within the reclaiming
period plus towing charges, if stored by the City, or towing and storage fees,
if stored in a public garage, whereupon said vehicle shall be released. The
amount of towing charges, and the rate of storage charges by privately owned
garages, shall be established by such facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the
police authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or
not the motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall
dispose of the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07 DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found
any abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle
whose title certificate is faulty, lost or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08 PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
   Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the
expense of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification
required, in accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner
of the motor vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be
deposited in the State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails
to realize the amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply
for reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09 DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
   Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor
vehicle for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish
such motor vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or
demolish a vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate
issued for the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
 
90.01 Definitions                   90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code
90.02 Mandatory Connections         90.08 Plumber Required
90.03 Water Service Provided by Des 90.09 Failure to Maintain
Moines Water Works
90.04 Permits                       90.10 Completion by the City
90.05 Fees and Charges              90.11 Operation of Curb Stop and Hydrants
90.06 Collections and Liens         90.12 Sharing of Main Costs
 
90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
   1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
   2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service
from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties
the duties, responsibilities, liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
   3.   “Des Moines Water Works” means the City water utility organized under
Chapter 388, Code of Iowa, which is officially known as the Board of Water
Works Trustees of the City of Des Moines, Iowa.
   4.   “Superintendent” means the Des Moines Water Works.
   5.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
   6.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
   7.   “Water system” means all public facilities for securing, collecting,
storing, pumping, treating and distributing water.
90.02 MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
   All residences and business establishments within the City limits intended
or used for human habitation, occupancy or use shall be connected to the public
water system, if it is reasonably available and if the building is not
furnished with pure and wholesome water from some other source.
90.03 WATER SERVICE PROVIDED BY DES MOINES WATER WORKS.
   Water service to all customers, within and without the City, that are
connected to the water system of the City shall be provided by the Des Moines
Water Works, from and after January 1, 2007, pursuant to the terms of a Chapter
28E Agreement between the City and the Des Moines Water Works. All such service
shall be provided directly by Des Moines Water Works as the water service
provider to customer and shall be pursuant to the rates, fees, rules, and
regulations established by the Des Moines Water Works from time to time.
90.04 PERMITS.
   Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the Des Moines Water Works as provided in its
rules and regulations.
90.05 FEES AND CHARGES.
   Fees and charges for permits, taps, connections, and all other services,
including system development fees, shall be established by, and collected by,
the Des Moines Water Works.
90.06 COLLECTIONS AND LIENS.
    The Des Moines Water Works shall have, and may exercise, all authority for
collection of water rates and charges granted by law, including discontinuing
service and imposition of liens as provided by law.
90.07 COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
   The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural or enforcement provisions, of the International Plumbing
Code.
90.08 PLUMBER REQUIRED.
   All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a plumber licensed by the State, except that Des Moines Water
Works shall be allowed to make routine service line repairs in connection with
water main repairs.
90.09 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
   When any portion of the water service pipe, which is the responsibility of
the property owner, becomes defective or creates a nuisance, and the owner
fails to correct such nuisance, the Des Moines Water Works may do so, and the
City may assess the costs thereof to the property.
90.10 COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
   Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours
after the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system,
or should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish
or correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property
owner or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the
costs before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with, and in the same manner as, general property
taxes.
90.11 OPERATION OF CURB STOP AND HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, except the Des Moines Water Works or
authorized City personnel, to turn water on at the curb stop, and no person,
unless specifically authorized by the City or the Des Moines Water Works, shall
open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
90.12 SHARING OF MAIN COSTS.
   When there are properties being developed that are separated by public
access or streets and the properties can be served by one water main, Des
Moines Water Works shall determine the side of the street on which the main
will be located. The cost of installation of the main shall be borne by the
developer who first develops the adjacent public access. Any person, firm or
corporation who develops the property on the opposite side of the public access
shall be required to pay the developer who originally installed said main, one-
half the per foot cost of the installation times the number of frontage feet
owned by the person, firm or corporation desiring to make said connection,
subject to the following:
   1.   The initial developer shall provide documentation of all costs related
to installation of the main to the City prior to acceptance of final plat.
   2.   New developers shall pay a $100.00 administrative fee to the City of
Cumming.
   3.   No reimbursement shall be made after the expiration of ten years from
acceptance of the final plat.
   4.   Any person, firm or corporation which becomes insolvent or ceases to do
business after the signing of an agreement contemplated by this policy shall
not be entitled to reimbursement and any agreement shall become null and void.
(Section 90.12 – Ord. 2021-02 – May 22 Supp.)
CHAPTER 91
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL – CONTAINMENT PROVISIONS
 
91.01 Definitions                    91.07 Backflow Prevention Assemblies for
                                     Fire Protection Systems
91.02 Administrative Authority       91.08 Backflow Prevention Assembly
                                     Technicians
91.03 New Water Services             91.09 Technician Noncompliance
91.04 Existing Water Services        91.10 Installation of Backflow
                                     Prevention Assemblies
91.05 Customer Responsibilities      91.11 Testing of Backflow Prevention
                                     Assemblies
91.06 Backflow Prevention Assemblies 91.12 Repair of Backflow Prevention
for Water Services                   Assemblies
                                    91.13 Customer Noncompliance
 
91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply only to this chapter. For the purpose of
this chapter, these definitions supersede definitions given elsewhere in this
Code of Ordinances.
   1.   “Administrative authority” means Des Moines Water Works and the City of
Cumming.
   2.   “Approved backflow prevention assembly for containment” means a
backflow prevention assembly which is listed by the University of Southern
California Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research as
having met the requirements of ANSI-AWWA Standard C510-97, Double Check Valve
Backflow Prevention Assemblies, of ANSI-AWWA Standard C511-97, Reduced Pressure
Principle Backflow Prevention Assemblies for containment. The listing shall
include the limitations of use based on the degree of hazard. The backflow
prevention assembly must also be listed by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials.
   3.   “Approved backflow prevention assembly for containment in a fire
protection system” means a backflow prevention assembly to be used in a fire
protection system which meets the requirements of Factory Mutual Research
Corporation (FM) and Underwriters Laboratory (UL), and the requirements of the
Fire Code and the Building Code of Cumming, in addition to the requirements of
Section
91.07 of this chapter. Devices sized smaller than two and one-half inches which
have not been listed by Underwriters Laboratory (UL) and tested by Factory
Mutual Research Corporation (FM) may be allowed if they meet the requirements
of the Fire Code and the Building Code of Cumming.
   4.   “Auxiliary water supply” means any water supply on or available to the
premises other than the City or its designee’s approved public water supply,
such as (but not limited to) a private well, pond, or river.
   5.   “Containment” means a method of backflow prevention which requires the
installation of a backflow prevention assembly at the water service entrance.
   6.   “Cross connection” means any actual or potential connection or
arrangement, physical or otherwise, between a potable water supply system and
any plumbing fixture or tank, receptacle, equipment, or device, through which
it may be possible for non-potable, used, unclean, polluted, and contaminated
water, or other substance, to enter into any part of such potable water system
under any condition.
   7.   “Customer” means the owner, operator, or occupant of a building or
property which has a water service from a public water system, or the owner or
operator of a private water system which has a water service from a public
water system.
   8.   “Degree of hazard” means the rating given by the administrative
authority of a cross connection or water service which indicates its potential
to cause contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
   9.   “Double check valve backflow prevention assembly” means a backflow
prevention device consisting of two independently acting internally loaded
check valves, four properly located test cocks, and two isolation valves.
   10.   “High hazard cross connection” means a cross connection which may
cause an impairment of the quality of the public potable water supply by
creating an actual hazard to public health, through poisoning or through the
spread of disease by sewage, industrial fluids, or waste.
   11.   “Isolation” means a method of backflow prevention in which a backflow
prevention assembly is located at the cross connection rather than at the water
service entrance.
   12.   “Low hazard cross connection” means a cross connection which may cause
an impairment of the quality of the public potable water supply to a degree
which does not create a hazard to public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect the aesthetic qualities of such potable waters for domestic
use.
   13.   “Public water supplier” means the entity providing public water for
human consumption through pipes or other constructed conveyances to at least 15
service connections or serving an average of at least 25 people for at least 60
days a year.
   14.   “Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly” means a
backflow prevention device consisting of two independently acting internally
loaded check valves, a pressure relief valve, four properly located test cocks,
and two isolation valves.
   15.   “Registered backflow prevention assembly technician” means a person
who is registered by the State of Iowa to test and repair backflow prevention
assemblies and report on the condition of those assemblies.
   16.   “Thermal expansion” means volumetric increase of water due to heating
resulting in increased pressure in a closed system.
   17.   “Water service” means, depending on the context, the physical
connection between a public water system and a customer’s building, property,
or private water system, or the act of providing potable water to a customer.
91.02 ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
   1.   The City of Cumming or Des Moines Water Works shall have the right to
enter, with the consent of the customer or upon the basis of a suitable warrant
issued by a court of appropriate jurisdiction, any property to inspect for
possible cross connections.
   2.   Des Moines Water Works shall maintain records of cross connection
hazard surveys, and the installation, testing, and repair of all backflow
prevention assemblies installed for containment purposes.
91.03 NEW WATER SERVICES.
   1.   Plans shall be submitted to Des Moines Water Works for review on all
new water services to determine the degree of hazard.
   2.   Des Moines Water Works shall determine the type of backflow prevention
assembly required for containment based on the degree of hazard.
   3.   The Des Moines Water Works shall inspect the installation of the
required backflow prevention assembly for containment before the initiation of
water service.
91.04 EXISTING WATER SERVICES.
   1.   Upgrades of existing water services shall be treated as new water
services for the purpose of this section.
   2.   Customers whose premises are not classified as single-family
residential shall complete and return a “Water Usage Inventory” to Des Moines
Water Works to be used to determine the degree of hazard of the facility.
   3.   Des Moines Water Works shall, on the basis of information received from
the Water Usage Inventory or gathered through on-site investigations or
surveys, determine the degree of hazard and type of backflow prevention
assembly required for containment.
   4.   Within the time frame specified in writing by Des Moines Water Works,
the customer shall install a backflow prevention assembly for containment.
   5.   For existing water services, Des Moines Water Works may inspect the
premises to determine the degree of hazard. When high hazard cross connections
are present, Des Moines Water Works shall assign a deadline for the
installation of a backflow prevention assembly for containment.
   6.   Failure of the customer to install a backflow prevention assembly by
the deadline as required will result in termination of the water service until
the installation is complete.
   7.   Failure of Des Moines Water Works to notify a customer that a high
hazard cross connection exists and that a backflow prevention assembly for
containment must be installed in no way relieves a customer of the
responsibility to comply with all requirements of this section.
91.05 CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   1.   The customer shall be responsible for ensuring that no cross
connections exist without approved backflow protection within his or her
premises, starting at the point of service from the public potable water
system.
   2.   The customer shall, at his or her own expense, cause installation,
operation, testing, and maintenance of backflow prevention assemblies.
   3.   The customer shall ensure that copies of records of the installation
and of all tests and repairs made to all backflow prevention assemblies be
submitted to the Des Moines Water Works on the approved form within 15 days
after testing and/or repairs are completed.
   4.   In the event of a backflow incident, the customer shall immediately
notify Des Moines Water Works of the incident, and the Des Moines Water Works
will recommend steps to confine the contamination or pollution.
91.06 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES FOR WATER SERVICES.
   1.   An air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly is required for water services having one or more cross
connections which the administrative authority has classified as high hazard.
   2.   An approved double check valve assembly is required for water services
having no high hazard cross connections but having one or more cross
connections which Des Moines Water Works has classified as low hazard.
91.07 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   1.   A reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be
installed on all new and existing fire protection systems which are determined
to have any one of the following:
      A.   Direct connections from public water mains with an auxiliary water
supply on or available to the premises for pumper connection.
      B.   Interconnections with auxiliary supplies such as reservoirs, rivers,
ponds, wells, mills, or other industrial water systems.
      C.   Use of antifreezes or other additives in the fire protection system.
      D.   Combined industrial and fire protection systems supplied from public
water mains only, with or without gravity storage or pump suction tanks.
      E.   Any other facility, connection, or condition, which may cause
contamination.
   2.   A double check valve assembly will be required for all other fire
protection systems. The double check valve assembly shall be required on all
new systems at the time of installation and on existing systems at the time
that they are upgraded.
   3.   Submittal of proposed backflow prevention devices to Des Moines Water
Works does not relieve the designer or the sprinkler contractor of the
responsibility of submitting plans, including backflow prevention devices, to
the City of Cumming for approval.
91.08 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TECHNICIANS.
    A backflow prevention assembly technician registered by the State of Iowa
shall include his or her registration number on all correspondence and forms
required by or associated with this chapter.
91.09 TECHNICIAN NONCOMPLIANCE.
    Noncompliance with any of the following by a registered technician shall be
grounds for reporting said individual to the State Health Department.
   1.   Improper testing or repair of backflow prevention assemblies.
   2.   Improper reporting of the results of testing or of repairs made to
backflow prevention assemblies.
   3.   Failure to meet registration requirements.
   4.   Related unethical practices.
91.10 INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES.
   1.   The required backflow prevention assemblies for containment shall be
installed in horizontal plumbing immediately following the meter or as close to
that location as deemed practical by Water Works. In any case, it shall be
located upstream from any branch piping. Installation at this point does not
eliminate the responsibility of the customer to protect the water supply system
from contamination or pollution between the backflow prevention assembly and
the water main.
   2.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
installed so as to be protected from flooding.
   3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall not be
installed in underground vaults or pits.
   4.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be protected from freezing.
Those devices used for seasonal water services may be removed in lieu of being
protected from freezing; however, the devices must be reinstalled and tested by
a registered backflow prevention technician prior to service being reactivated.
   5.   If hot water is used within the water system, thermal expansion shall
be provided for when installing a backflow prevention assembly for containment.
   6.   Provisions shall be made to convey the discharge of water from reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies to a suitable drain.
   7.   No backflow prevention assembly shall be installed in a place where it
would create a safety hazard, such as, but not limited to over an electrical
panel, or above ceiling level.
   8.   If interruption of water service during testing and repair of backflow
prevention assemblies for containment is unacceptable, another backflow
prevention assembly, sized to handle the temporary water flow needed during the
time of test or repair, should be installed in parallel piping.
   9.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed so that they are
accessible for testing.
   10.   All shut-off valves shall conform to the current edition of the Manual
of Cross Connection Control (University of Southern California) requirements
for either ball or resilient seat gate valves at the time of installation. Ball
valves shall be used on assemblies installed in piping two inches and smaller
and resilient seat gate valves on assemblies installed in piping larger than
two inches.
   11.   Location and protection of the containment assembly shall be approved
by Des Moines Water Works prior to installation.
91.11 TESTING OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES.
    Testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be performed by a
registered backflow prevention assembly technician. The costs of tests required
in the following subsections shall be borne by the customer.
   1.   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested upon installation and
tested and inspected at least annually.
   2.   Backflow prevention assemblies, which are in place, but have been out
of operation for more than three months, shall be tested before being put back
into operation. Backflow prevention assemblies used in seasonal applications
shall be tested before being put into operation each season.
   3.   Any backflow prevention assembly which fails a periodic test shall be
repaired or replaced. When water service has been terminated for noncompliance,
the backflow prevention assembly shall be repaired or replaced prior to the
resumption of water service. Backflow prevention assemblies shall be retested
by a registered backflow prevention assembly technician immediately after
repair or replacement.
   4.   Des Moines Water Works may require backflow prevention assemblies to be
tested at any time in addition to the annual testing requirement.
   5.   The registered backflow prevention assembly technician shall report the
successful test of a backflow prevention assembly to the customer and to Des
Moines Water Works within 15 days of the test.
   6.   Des Moines Water Works may require, at the owner’s expense, additional
tests of individual backflow prevention assemblies as it shall deem necessary
to verify test procedures and results.
91.12 REPAIR OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES.
   1.   All repairs to backflow prevention assemblies shall be performed by
registered backflow prevention assembly technicians.
   2.   The registered backflow prevention assembly technician shall not change
the design, material, or operational characteristics of a backflow prevention
assembly during repair or maintenance, and shall use only original manufacturer
replacement parts.
   3.   The registered backflow prevention assembly technician shall report the
repair of a backflow prevention assembly to the customer and to the Des Moines
Water Works within 15 days of the repair. The report shall include the list of
materials or replacement parts used.
   4.   Any time fire services are discontinued for a period of time longer
than necessary to test the device; the tester is required to notify the Fire
Chief’s office that the fire service is shut off for repair.
91.13 CUSTOMER NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The water service may be discontinued in the case of noncompliance with this
section. Noncompliance includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   1.   Refusal to allow Des Moines Water Works access to the property to
inspect for cross connections.
   2.   Removal of a backflow prevention assembly which has been required by
Des Moines Water Works and/or the City of Cumming.
   3.   Bypassing of a backflow prevention assembly which has been required by
Des Moines Water Works and/or the City of Cumming.
   4.   Providing inadequate backflow protection when cross connections exist.
   5.   Failure to install a backflow prevention assembly which has been
required by Des Moines Water Works and/or the City of Cumming.
   6.   Failure to test and/or properly repair a backflow prevention assembly
as required by Des Moines Water Works and/or the City of Cumming.
   7.   Failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Superintendent            95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required
 
95.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to
Sanitary Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment
and disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees C, expressed in milligrams per
liter or parts per million.
   2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
   4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and
sewage.
   5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
   6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial
manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the
public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
   9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
   11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution.
   12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial waste.
   14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage.
   17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees
levied against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of
said customers by said sewer system.
   20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   22.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of sewage works and/or of
water pollution control of the City or any authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable
by laboratory filtering.
   24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03 SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
   2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
   3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04 PROHIBITED ACTS. No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
   1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
   4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
   6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City,
or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 90 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 300 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
95.06 SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
95.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08 USE OF EASEMENTS.
    The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09 SPECIAL PENALTIES.
   The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
   1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation
of this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                           96.05 Sewer Tap
96.02 Permit Fee and Connection Charge 96.06 Inspection Required
96.03 Plumber Required                 96.07 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.04 Connection Requirements          96.08 Abatement of Violations
 
96.01 PERMIT.
    No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit
shall set forth the location and description of the property to be connected
with the sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be used, and
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent. The permit shall require the owner to complete
construction and connection of the building sewer to the public sewer within 60
days after the issuance of the permit, except that when a property owner makes
sufficient showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control or
peculiar hardship, such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension of
time within which to comply with the provisions herein may be granted. Any
sewer connection permit may be revoked at any time for a violation of these
chapters.
96.02 PERMIT FEE AND CONNECTION CHARGE.
   The person who makes the application shall pay a fee in the amount of $20.00
to the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising,
regulating, and inspecting the work. In addition, there shall be a connection
charge in the amount of $250.00 paid to reimburse the City for costs borne by
the City in making sewer service available to the property served. This charge
does not include the cost of installing a new septic tank, building sewer or
pipe from the septic tank to the collection sewer, which shall be borne by the
property owner.
96.03 PLUMBER REQUIRED.
   All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The installation of the building sewer and its connection to the public
sewer shall conform to the requirements of the International Plumbing Code, the
laws of the State, and other applicable rules and regulations of the City.
96.05 SEWER TAP.
   Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the
“Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent. The public sewer shall be tapped with
a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer shall be
glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no
time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless
special written permission is received from the Superintendent and in
accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is approved.
96.06 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   No building sewer shall be covered, concealed or put into use until it has
been tested, inspected and accepted as prescribed in the International Plumbing
Code.
96.07 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
96.08 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   Building sewers, whether located upon the private property of any owner or
in the public right-of-way, which are constructed or maintained in violation of
any of the requirements of this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance and the same
shall be abated by the City in the manner provided for the abatement of
nuisances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Storm Water              97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Superintendent
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01 STORM WATER.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Storm
water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers that
are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm
sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02 SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
   Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer
may be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where
such discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but
any permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to
the best interests of the sewer system.
97.03 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel
oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter as
CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
   3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
      A.   Any waters or wastes: (i) having a five-day biochemical oxygen
demand greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or (ii) containing more
than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or (iii) having an
average daily flow greater than two percent of the average sewage flow of the
City, shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
      B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to: (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
by weight; or (ii) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by
weight; or (iii) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters
or wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
   1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150 degrees F (65 degrees C).
   2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
   3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees F and 150 degrees
F (0 degrees to 65 degrees C).
   4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to
such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than
one-half inch in any dimension.
   5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
   6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
   7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste
or odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may
be established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
   9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
      A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
   12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
   13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are
not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes
employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
    If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
   1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
   2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
   3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
   4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling
and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under
the provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06 SPECIAL FACILITIES.
   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary
treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at the owner’s expense.
97.07 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.08 TESTING OF WASTES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples).
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.05 Discharge Restrictions
98.02 When Required               98.06 Maintenance of System
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.04 Permit Required             98.08 Disposal of Septage
 
98.01 WHEN PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02 WHEN REQUIRED.
   When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.03 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3 & 4])
98.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
    No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of
Health.
98.05 DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch,
stream, pond, lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the
surface of the ground.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.06 MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
   The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall
operate and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no
expense to the City.
98.07 SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an
on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08 DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
   No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER USE CHARGE SYSTEM
 
99.01 Purpose                            99.08 Application
99.02 Definitions                        99.09 Payment of Bills
99.03 Use of Funds                       99.10 Special Rate
99.04 Year-End Balances                  99.11 Deposit
99.05 Other Agreements or Contracts      99.12 Review of User Charge System
99.06 Charges Based on Usage             99.13 Notification of Rate Change
99.07 Responsibility for Increased Costs
 
99.01 PURPOSE.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the City to
collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the City’s
treatment works. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the
purpose of operating, maintaining and retiring the debt for such public
wastewater treatment works.
99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Availability fee” means a fee associated with water use and is added
to every bill along with a sewer user charge. It is a fixed cost to have
service at the customer’s location.
   2.   “Billing agency” means the Des Moines Water Works or any other agency
designated by the City to maintain utility customer accounts, read meters,
prepare and mail bills, and account for utility payments.
   3.   “Commercial discharger” means a user who is not a residential
contributor and who is not an industrial discharger as defined in this chapter.
   4.   “Industrial discharger” means any non-governmental discharger to the
publicly owned treatment works, as in the most recent edition of the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual, as published by the Office of Management and
Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
      A.   Division A. Agricultural, Forestry and Fishing.
      B.   Division B. Mining.
      C.   Division D. Manufacturing.
      D.   Division E. Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary.
   A discharger in the Divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined by
the City that it will introduce primarily segregated sanitary sewage.
   5.   “Normal domestic wastewater” means wastewater that has a BOD
concentration of not more than 225 mg/l, a suspended solids concentration of
not more than 250 mg/l, a pH in the range of 6 to 9, and oil or grease of
animal or vegetable origin of not more than 100 mg/l.
   6.   “Operation and maintenance” means all expenditures during the useful
life of the wastewater treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and
other items which are necessary for managing and maintaining the treatment
works to achieve the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed.
   7.   “Replacement” means expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful
life of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance”
includes replacement.
   8.   “Residential contributor” means any contributor to the City’s treatment
works whose lot, parcel of real estate or building is used for domestic
dwelling purposes only.
   9.   “Treatment works” means any devices and systems used for the storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or
liquid industrial wastes. These include on-site septic tanks, intercepting
sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their appurtenances; extensions,
improvement, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof; elements essential
to provide reliable treatment such as standby units and any works, including
land that will be an integral part of the treatment process or used for
ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
   10.   “Useful life” means the estimated period during which a treatment
works will be operated.
   11.   “User charge” means that portion of the total wastewater service
charge which is levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement of the treatment works.
   12.   “Water meter” means a water volume measuring and recording device,
furnished and installed by the City or installed by a user and approved by the
City, in compliance with this Code of Ordinances.
99.03 USE OF FUNDS.
   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay costs
of annual operation and maintenance including replacement and costs associated
with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the treatment
works which the City may by ordinance designate to be paid by the user charge
system. That portion of the total user charge which is designated for operation
and maintenance, replacement of equipment, and debt retirement, shall be
deposited in separate non-lapsing funds and will be kept in three primary
accounts as follows:
   1.   Operation and Maintenance Account. An account designated for the
specific purpose of defraying operation and maintenance costs of the treatment
works. These costs include but are not limited to the costs of removing sludge
from septic tanks, monitoring the treatment plant and all routine expenditures
associated with the operation of a sewer system.
   2.   Replacement Account. An account designated for the specific purpose of
defraying the cost of future equipment replacement, as itemized in Appendix B
to Ordinance No. 93-2, on file at City Hall. Deposits in the replacement
account shall be made from the operation, maintenance and replacement revenue
in the amount of $47.50 monthly.
   3.   Dept Service Account. An account designated for the specific purpose of
insuring debt service retirement.
99.04 YEAR-END BALANCES.
   Fiscal year-end balances in all accounts shall be carried over to the same
accounts in the subsequent fiscal year, and shall be used for no other purposes
than those designated for these accounts. Funds which have been transferred
from other sources to meet temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance
and Replacement Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance and
replacement. The user charge rate shall be adjusted such that the transferred
funds will be returned to their respective accounts within the fiscal year
following the fiscal year in which the moneys were borrowed.
99.05 OTHER AGREEMENTS OR CONTRACTS.
    This chapter takes precedence over any terms or conditions of agreements or
contracts between the City and users which are inconsistent with the
requirements of Section 204(b)(1)(A) of the Clean Water Act and corresponding
regulations.
99.06 CHARGES BASED ON USAGE.
    Each user shall pay for the services provided by the City based on said
user’s use of the treatment works as determined by water meters acceptable to
the City, except that residential contributors whose premises are served in
whole or in part by a private water system shall pay sewer user charges based
upon 200 percent of the availability fee in effect. If requested by the
contributor, a water meter may be installed at the contributor’s expense.
   1.   For residential contributors, monthly user charges shall be based on
actual water usage for that month. For industrial and commercial contributors,
user charges shall be based on metered water usage each month. If any
residential, commercial or industrial contributor uses water which is not
returned to the wastewater collection system (e.g. irrigation), the user charge
for the contributor may be based on a deduct wastewater meter or separate water
meter installed and maintained at the contributor’s expense, and in a manner
acceptable to the City.
   2.   The availability fee charge per month is $15.00. In addition, each
contributor shall pay a user charge for operating, maintenance, replacement and
debt retirement of $6.75 per 1,000 gallons of water used as determined in the
preceding section.
   3.   Any user who is billed by the billing agency (Des Moines Water Works)
will be charged a $1.60 administrative fee to recoup the cost that is billed to
the City.
(Section 99.06 – Ord. 2021-01 – May 22 Supp.)
99.07 RESPONSIBILITY FOR INCREASED COSTS.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the City’s treatment works
or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by interaction with
other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of operation,
maintenance or replacement of the treatment works shall pay for such increased
costs.
99.08 APPLICATION.
   The user charge rates established in this chapter apply to all users of the
City’s treatment works, regardless of their location.
99.09 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   The billing agency shall prepare and issue bills for combined service
accounts each month. Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at the office of the billing agency.
99.10 SPECIAL RATE.
    Where, in the judgment of the Superintendent and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer user charges
as set forth herein would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the
contributor, a special rate shall be proposed by the Superintendent and
submitted to the Council for approval by resolution.
99.11 DEPOSIT.
    There may be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a $50.00 deposit intended to guarantee the payment of bills for service.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.12 REVIEW OF USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   The City shall review the user charge system annually and revise user charge
rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates adequate revenues to pay
all costs.
99.13 NOTIFICATION OF RATE CHANGE.
   The City will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation and maintenance,
replacement and debt retirement.
CHAPTER 100
REGULATION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER, COMMERCIAL WASTEWATER AND HAULED WASTE
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The Regulation of Industrial Wastewater, Commercial Wastewater and Hauled
Waste, adopted August 28, 2006, by Ordinance No. 2006-15, and amendments
thereto, contained in a separate volume, are a part of this Code of Ordinances
and are in full force and effect. Ordinance No. 2010-04, Regulation of Fat, Oil
and Grease Discharge by Food Service Establishments, adopted June 28, 2010,
amended Ordinance No. 2006-15. Ordinance No. 2019-02, Regulation of Industrial
Wastewater, Commercial Wastewater, and Hauled Waste, adopted March 11, 2019,
amended Ordinance No. 2006-15.
These ordinances, not codified herein, are specifically saved from repeal.
         
CHAPTER 101
BENEFITED SEWER DISTRICTS
 
101.01 Purpose 101.03 Procedure
101.02 Intent  101.04 South Service Area Sanitary Sewer Connection Fee District
 
101.01 PURPOSE.
   The City has determined the necessity of establishing a policy and a
procedure to be utilized to recover the cost of designing and constructing
major sanitary sewer facilities in those instances in which a significant
number of the properties to be benefited by such facilities are not
sufficiently developed to permit the recovery of those costs through the
special assessment process as provided in Chapter 384, Division IV of the Code
of Iowa. The City hereby declares its intent to utilize connection fees, as
herein provided, to recover the costs of designing and constructing such major
sanitary sewer facilities from property owners who connect to such facilities
subsequent to their construction.
101.02 INTENT.
    It is the intent of this chapter to set forth the method of recovery of
proportional cost shares from those property owners who connect their
properties to major sanitary sewer facilities subsequent to their construction,
so that in the event that all property, other than street and road right-of-
way, which lies within the benefited district is connected to the major
sanitary sewer facilities during their expected useful life, then those
properties shall bear, in the aggregate, up to 100 percent of the cost of
designing and constructing such facilities, including legal, administrative and
interest expenses associated therewith.
101.03 PROCEDURE.
   1.   In the event the Council determines the necessity of constructing a
major sanitary sewer facility, and determines that the utilization of a
connection fee is the most equitable manner in which to recover the City's
costs associated therewith, the Council shall cause a “Notice of Public Hearing
on the Proposed Adoption of an Ordinance to Establish a Connection Fee District
and a Connection Fee” to be published in a newspaper having general circulation
in the City as hereinafter provided. In addition to indicating the date, time,
and place of the public hearing, the notice shall:
      A.   Indicate the nature and extent of the major sanitary sewer facility
or facilities constructed or under consideration for construction, as well as
the estimated cost or costs for the design and construction of same;
      B.   Identify by general description the proposed connection fee district
to be served by the major sanitary sewer facility or facilities; and
      C.   Set forth the proposed schedule of connection fees to be paid by
property owners within the benefited district who connect to said facilities,
expressed in dollars per acre of land area served or such other method as the
City shall determine to be equitable for the benefited district.
   The notice shall state that the proposed connection fee district ordinance
is on file, along with a plat of the area to be served, and both are available
for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk. The notice shall be
published not more than 45 days and not less than 20 days prior to the
scheduled date of the public hearing, and shall be mailed to each property
owner within the connection fee district as shown by the records of the County
Auditor.
   2.   At the public hearing, the owners of property within the proposed
connection fee district shall be heard and may offer comments or objections as
to:
      A.   The necessity for the project;
      B.   The calculation of the area benefited by the proposed major sanitary
sewer facilities;
      C.   The estimated cost of the proposed facilities; and
      D.   The proposed connection fee.
   3.   Upon concluding the hearing, the Council shall rule upon the objections
presented during the hearing and may consider the adoption of the proposed
connection fee district ordinance. Upon consideration of the proposed
connection fee district ordinance, the Council may:
      A.   Adopt the ordinance as proposed;
      B.   Delete elements or portions of the proposed major sanitary sewer
facilities from the proposed project and the properties served thereby from the
connection fee district proposed, or
      C.   Amend the ordinance to revise the connection fee.
   4.   The connection fee district ordinance may provide, at the Council’s
discretion, that single-family residences within the connection fee district,
in existence or under construction upon the effective date of the ordinance,
and located within the corporate limits of the City, are eligible for
connection to the major sanitary sewer facility. In that event, the ordinance
shall include the following provisions:
      A.   That the owners of residences on parcels of less than one acre in
size located within the City may connect such residences to the major sanitary
sewer facility upon approval of their application for connection, payment of
the connection fee for the parcel, and construction, at the owner’s expense, of
appropriate connection structures, as determined necessary by the City, and
      B.   That the owners of residences on parcels in excess of one acre in
size located within the City may connect such residences to the major sanitary
sewer facility upon approval of their application for connection, payment of
the connection fee for the parcel, and construction, at the owner's expense, of
appropriate connection structures, as determined necessary by the City. Any
future development of said parcel shall necessitate a revised application for
connection and payment of the appropriate connection fee. The connection fee
for the remainder parcel shall be payable at such time as the remainder parcel
shall be connected to the major sanitary sewer facility.
   The connection fee district ordinance may also provide, at the Council’s
discretion, that sanitary sewer service can be provided to recreational and
park facilities, and to commercial and industrial parcels and facilities, in
the same manner and under the same procedures set forth in this section for
single family residences within the connection fee district. All other property
located within the corporate limits of the City and within a connection fee
district shall be eligible for connection to the major sanitary sewer facility
upon approval of an application for connection by the owner thereof, as
hereafter provided, and payment of the connection fee for such property,
provided such property has been appropriately subdivided for development, and,
where applicable, all sanitary sewer improvements necessary to serve said
property have been constructed, at the owner's expense, and accepted by the
City.
   5.   After adoption, publication and recording of a connection fee district
ordinance by the City Clerk, all owners of those properties within the
benefited district whose properties are eligible for connection, and who
propose to connect such properties directly or indirectly to the major sanitary
sewer facility, shall make application to the City for such connection. The
submittal of construction plans to the City for sanitary sewer improvements on
property being subdivided for development shall constitute an application to
the City for purposes of this chapter. The sewer connection fee shall be due
and payable at the time application is made to the City for connection to the
major sanitary sewer facility. No connection shall be made to a major sanitary
sewer facility until such application has been approved and until the required
connection fee has been paid. The sewer connection fee required by a connection
fee district ordinance and this chapter shall be paid before the City will
approve the final plat of property subject to the connection fee.
   6.   The sewer connection fee shall be in an amount equal to the maximum
acre area of contiguous property, or fraction thereof, within the connection
fee district under common ownership which can be lawfully served through such
proposed connection, multiplied by the per acre connection fee or such other
fee basis as determined for the benefited district established in the
connection fee district ordinance for that district. The connection fee
district ordinance may provide for a graduated connection fee, with annual
interest adjustments, such that property owners who connect in later years pay
interest on the connection fee for their property. The rate of interest
applicable to the connection fee established in each connection fee district
shall not exceed the rate of interest applicable to special assessments
pursuant to Chapter 74A and Section 384.60(3) of the Code of Iowa in effect on
the date that the connection fee was established for that district by enactment
of a connection fee district ordinance.
   7.   Property outside of the connection fee district would be eligible for
connection to a major sanitary sewer facility only upon the approval of an
application for connection by the owner thereof, a determination by the City
that sufficient capacity exists in the major sanitary sewer facility to serve
such area outside of the boundaries of the connection fee district and
following payment of a fee calculated on the same basis as if the property were
located within the connection fee district. Without approval of the City and
payment of the applicable fee, no property outside of the connection fee
district may connect to the major sanitary sewer facility constructed to serve
the connection fee district. The City may waive the requirement for payment of
the applicable fee.
   8.   The sewer connection fee required by a connection fee district
ordinance and this chapter shall be due and payable to the City.
   9.   The sewer connection fee required by a connection fee district
ordinance and this chapter is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other
fees for connection required under the plumbing code or other provisions of the
Code of Ordinances of the City.
   10.   In the event any property owner connects his or her property within a
connection fee district or property outside a connection fee district to a
major sanitary sewer facility for which a benefited distribution has been
established, without having made application therefore or without having
received approval thereof, or without having paid the required connection fee
established by a connection fee district ordinance, the City shall be entitled
to disconnect such private sewer connection until such time as the property
owner has made and received approval of the application, and has paid the
required connection fee.
   11.   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter by connecting to a
major sanitary sewer facility without having complied with the provisions of
this chapter shall be punished as provided in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances of the City.
101.04 SOUTH SERVICE AREA SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION FEE DISTRICT.
   1.   District Established. The South Service Area Sanitary Sewer Connection
Fee District is hereby established consisting of a tract of land in Sections 7,
8, 9, 16, 17, and 18, Township 77 North, Range 25 West of the 5th Principal
Meridian, Warren County, Iowa, as graphically depicted on Exhibit A, attached
to and made a part of hereof and more particularly described as follows:
* Beginning at the North Quarter (N 1/4) corner of said Section 16; thence
south along the east line of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE
1/4 NW 1/4) of said Section 16 to the south line of the North Half (N 1/2) of
said NE 1/4 NW 1/4; thence west along said south line to the west line of said
NE 1/4 NW 1/4; thence south along said west line to the southeast corner of the
Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4 NW 1/4); thence west along
the south line of said NW 1/4 NW 1/4 to the northeast corner of the Northwest
Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4 SW 1/4 NW 1/
4) of said Section 16; thence south along the east line of said NW 1/4 SW 1/
4 NW 1/4 to the south line of said NW 1/4 SW 1/4 NW 1/4; thence west along said
south line to the east line of the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter
(SE 1/4 NE 1/4) of said Section 17; thence south along said east line to the
south line of said SE 1/4 NE 1/4; thence west along said south line to the west
line of said SE 1/4 NE 1/4; thence north along said west line to the south line
of the Northeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter (NE
1/4 SW 1/4 NE 1/4) of said Section 17; thence west along said south line to the
west line of said NE 1/4 SW 1/4 NE 1/4; thence north along said west line to
the south line of the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter (NW 1/4 NE 1/
4) of said Section 17; thence west along said south line to the west line of
said NW 1/4 NE 1/4; thence north along said west line to the intersection of
said west line and a line 403.4 feet south and parallel with the north line of
the NW 1/4 of said Section 17, said line also being the south line of Lot 1,
Auditor’s Plat of the NW 1/4 of said Section 17 extended easterly; thence west
along said south line of Lot 1 extended to the west line of said Lot 1; thence
north along said west line of Lot 1 to a point 300 foot south and parallel with
the north line of said Section 17; thence west along said line parallel with
and 300 foot south of said Section 17 and said Section 18 to the east right-of-
way of the Northbound exit ramp of Interstate 35; thence northeasterly along
said east right-of-way to the south right-of-way of County Road G14; thence
northerly to the intersection of the north right-of-way of said County Road G14
and the east right-of-way of the northbound entrance ramp of Interstate 35;
thence northwesterly along said east right-of-way to the east right-of-way of
Interstate 35; thence north along said east right-of-way to the north line of
the South Half of the Southeast Quarter (S 1/2 SE 1/4) of said Section 7;
thence east along said north line of the S 1/2 SE 1/4 of said Section 7 and the
north line of the South Half of the Southwest Quarter (S 1/2 SW 1/4) of said
Section 8 to the west line of former railroad right-of-way conveyed to the
Warren County for a bike trail; thence south along said former railroad right-
of-way to the south line of said Section 8; thence east along the south line of
said Section 8 to the east line of the West 14 rods of the South 11 3/7 rods of
the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of said Section 8; thence north along said east
line to the north line of said West 14 rods of the South 11 3/7 rods of the SE
1/4 of said Section 8; thence west along said north line to the west line of
said SE 1/4 of said Section 8; thence north along said west line of said SE 1/
4 to the north line of the South Half (S 1/2) of said SE 1/4; thence east along
said north line to the east line of said SE 1/4; thence south along said east
line to the centerline of N. Cattail Creek extended westerly to said east line
of the SE 1/4; thence easterly along said centerline to the center of cul-de-
sac as platted in Apple Creek Plat 1; thence east to the northwest corner of
Lot 6 in said Apple Creek Plat 1, said point also being the southwest corner of
an existing 40.0 foot ingress/egress easement as platted in said Apple Creek
Plat 1; thence northeasterly along the north line of said Lot 6 to the east
line of Outlot ‘B’ of said Apple Creek Plat 1; thence southeasterly along the
east line of said Outlot ‘B’ to the north line of Outlot ‘Y’ in Apple Creek
Plat 2; thence southeasterly along said north line of said Outlot ‘Y’ to the
east line of said Apple Creek Plat 2; thence south along said east line of
Apple Creek Plat 2 to the east line of Lot 10 in said Apple Creek Plat 2;
thence south along said east line of said Lot 10 to the south line of said Lot
10; thence west along said south line of said Lot 10 to a southerly line of
said Lot 10; thence southwesterly along said southerly line to the centerline
of N. 29th Street; thence south along said centerline of N. 29th Street to the
centerline of N. Birch Avenue; thence east along said centerline to the
intersection of said centerline and the east line of Lot 3 in Apple Creek Plat
2 extended North; thence south along said east line extended to the north line
of Lot 2 in said Apple Creek Plat 2; thence east along said north line to the
east line of said Lot 2, said line also being the east line of said Apple Creek
Plat 2; thence south along said east line of Apple Creek Plat 2 to the south
line of said Section 9; thence east along said south line to the point of
beginning. *
   2.   District Connection Fees. Connection fees are hereby established and
shall be imposed upon owners of properties within the South Service Area
Sanitary Sewer Connection Fee District, pursuant to Cumming Ordinance No. 2012-
03, at the time of application to connect properties to said sanitary sewer
facilities as follows:
      A.   From the effective date of Ordinance No. 2012-06 through June 30,
2012, a connection fee of $3,945.00 per acre of property served by the sanitary
sewer facility shall be imposed. Thereafter the per acre connection shall be
annually adjusted as of July 1 of each year according to the following
schedule:
 Connection Fee ($/Acre)
             Connection Fee ($/Acre)
July 1, 2012 $3,945.00
July 1, 2013 $4,035.00
July 1, 2014 $4,125.00
July 1, 2015 $4,215.00
July 1, 2016 $4,305.00
July 1, 2017 $4,395.00
July 1, 2018 $4,485.00
July 1, 2019 $4,575.00
July 1, 2020 $4,665.00
July 1, 2021 $4,755.00
July 1, 2022 $4,845.00
 
   On July 1, 2023, and every year thereafter, the connection fee per acre
imposed shall be based on the prior year connection fee plus $90.00.
      B.   The above established connection fee schedule shall also apply to
any properties outside of the South Service Area Sanitary Sewer Connection Fee
District which uses or derives benefit from any of the sewer facilities
constructed to serve the South Service Area Sanitary Sewer Connection Fee
District. The appropriate fee shall be imposed at the time of determination
that a benefit is derived by the property.
      C.   The above established connection fee schedule shall not apply to any
properties within the South Service Area Sanitary Sewer Connection Fee District
which do not use or derive any benefit from the sewer facilities constructed
for the South Service Area Sanitary Sewer Connection Fee District.
      D.   The determination that a property is to be connected to the sewer
facilities shall occur, and the appropriate connection fee shall be paid, prior
to the time of release of a final plat for recordation, issuance of a building
permit or issuance of a plumbing permit, whichever occurs first.
      E.   The per-acre connection fee shall be imposed on the gross area of
any final plat and shall not exclude areas set aside for streets, public right-
of-way or for any other purpose.
      F.   Any single-family residence existing or under construction upon the
effective date of Ordinance No. 2012-06, located upon a parcel of 1 acre or
less, may apply for connection upon payment of a single one-acre connection
fee.
      G.   Any single-family residence existing or under construction upon the
effective date of Ordinance No. 2012-06, located upon a parcel in excess of one
acre, may also apply for connection upon payment of a single one-acre
connection fee. Payment of a single one-acre connection fee shall be applicable
only to the single residence. Any future development of said parcel shall
necessitate a revised application for connection and payment of the appropriate
connection fee. At the discretion of the City this provision may be extended to
any single family residence constructed after the effective date of Ordinance
No. 2012-06.
      H.   The City shall be responsible to design and construct the primary
trunk sewers to serve the South Service Area Sanitary Sewer Connection Fee
District. Other sewers required to provide sewer service to individual
properties within the connection fee district, including smaller trunk sewers,
shall not be the responsibility of the City to design or construct under the
provisions of the South Service Area Sanitary Sewer Connection Fee District.
   3.   Effect of Schedule. The above established connection fee schedule shall
remain in full force and effect until such time that the City Council for the
City of Cumming adopts an ordinance to adjust the connection fees to be imposed
within subsequent years for the South Service Area Sanitary Sewer Connection
Fee District. Nothing herein is intended to restrict the City Council from
appropriate adjustment of the connection fee schedule to reflect future
construction costs.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                    105.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required
105.02 Definitions                105.07 Littering Prohibited
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required 105.08 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard     105.09 Waste Storage Containers
105.05 Open Burning Restricted    105.10 Prohibited Practices
 
105.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety and welfare as may result
from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from
public and private places.
   2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
   3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all
offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage.
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
   7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business in
any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
   8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple-
family dwelling.
   10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities. Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined in Section 321.1 of
the Code of Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
      F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A
of the Code of Iowa.
      G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
         (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
         (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing
to ensure production is not interrupted.
105.03 SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all
refuse accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any
such accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days
shall be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04 HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises,
improved or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.
105.05 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall allow, cause or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(IAC, 567-23.2[455B] and 567-100.2)
   1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape
waste, for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an
officially declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of
any structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3a])
   2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings
at a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in
compliance with the rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3b])
   3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3c])
   4.   Landscape Waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises. However, the burning of landscape waste produced
in clearing, grubbing and construction operations shall be limited to areas
located at least one-fourth mile from any building inhabited by other than the
landowner or tenant conducting the open burning. Rubber tires shall not be used
to ignite landscape waste.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3d])
   5.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3e])
   6.   Residential Waste. Backyard burning of residential waste at dwellings
of four-family units or less.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3f])
   7.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide
training of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided
that the training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by
the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3g])
   8.   Pesticide Containers and Seed Corn Bags. The disposal by open burning
of paper or plastic pesticide containers (except those formerly containing
organic forms of beryllium, selenium, mercury, lead, cadmium or arsenic) and
seed corn bags resulting from farming activities occurring on the premises if
burned in accordance with rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3h])
   9.   Agricultural Structures. The open burning of agricultural structures if
in accordance with rules and limitations established by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3i])
   10.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of
a demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3j])
   11.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[2])
105.06 SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
   All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other
solid waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted or burned on the
premises or placed in acceptable containers and set out for collection. As used
in this section, “yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves,
garden waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.07 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.08 TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources. As used in this section, “toxic and hazardous waste” means
waste materials, including (but not limited to) poisons, pesticides,
herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological waste, flammable or explosive
materials, and similar harmful waste that requires special handling and that
must be disposed of in such a manner as to conserve the environment and protect
the public health and safety.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
(IAC, 567-102.13[2] and 400-27.14[2])
105.09 WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Residential. Residential waste and recyclable items shall be disposed
of in the containers provided by the City’s solid waste contractor.
   2.   Commercial. Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in portable containers as required above is impractical,
shall maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
   3.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste containers shall be
stored upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall
be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel. All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
   4.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of
solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed outdoors at some easily
accessible place by the owner or occupant of the premises served.
   5.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers that are not
in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.10 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of
such containers.
   2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
   3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
   4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out
for collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.06 Right of Entry
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.07 Contract Requirements
106.03 Loading                 106.08 Collection Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.09 Permit Requirements
106.05 Bulky Rubbish
 
106.01 COLLECTION SERVICE.
   The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste, except
bulky rubbish as provided in Section
106.05, from residential premises only. The owners or operators of commercial,
industrial, or institutional premises shall provide for the collection of solid
waste produced upon such premises.
106.02 COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be cleaned
to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(IAC, 567-104.9[455B])
106.03 LOADING.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any
solid waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will
not fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or
loss of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once
each week. Commercial, industrial, and institutional premises collection shall
be between the owner and a collector as frequently as may be necessary to
prevent overflowing of containers.
106.05 BULKY RUBBISH.
   Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal
manner of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon arrangement.
Appliances shall be collected through arrangement with a hauler and may be
subject to additional cost arranged between the party and the hauler.
Appliances must be disposed of according to procedures prescribed by federal,
State, and local rules and regulations.
106.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property
for the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter;
however, solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other
residential buildings.
106.07 CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting,
processing or disposing of solid waste for the City without first entering into
a contract with the City. This section does not prohibit an owner from
transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises owned, occupied or used by
such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of properly in an approved
sanitary disposal project. Furthermore, a contract is not required for the
removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading or
excavation activities, provided that all such materials are conveyed in tight
vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the
material being transported is spilled upon any public right-of-way.
106.08 COLLECTION FEES.
   The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449)
   1.   Fee for Collection. The fee for solid waste collection and disposal
service, used or available, for each residential premises is $12.70.
   2.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account. Solid waste
collection service may be discontinued in accordance with the contract that has
been entered into and filed of record with the City Clerk.
106.09 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The collection of commercial solid waste within the City shall be only by
collectors holding permits issued by the City. The permit shall be in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Application. Application for a solid waste collector’s permit shall be
made to the Clerk and provide the following:
      A.   Name and Address. The full name and address of the applicant, and if
a corporation, the names and addresses of the officers thereof.
      B.   Equipment. A complete and accurate listing of the number and type of
collection and transportation equipment to be used.
      C.   Collection Program. A complete description of the frequency, routes
and method of collection and transportation to be used.
      D.   Disposal. A statement as to the precise location and method of
disposal or processing facilities to be used.
   2.   Insurance. No collector’s permit shall be issued until and unless the
applicant, in addition to all other requirements set forth, shall file and
maintain with the City evidence of satisfactory public liability insurance
covering all operations of the applicant pertaining to such business and all
equipment and vehicles to be operated in the conduct thereof in the following
minimum amounts:
      Worker’s Compensation      Statutory
      Employer’s Liability:         $1,000,000.00 each occurrence
      General Liability:         $1,000,000.00 each occurrence
      Bodily Injury:            $1,000,000.00 each occurrence
      Property Damage:         $1,000,000.00 each occurrence
      Automobile Liability:       $1,000,000.00 each occurrence
   Each insurance policy required hereunder shall include as a part thereof
provisions requiring the insurance carrier to notify the City of the
expiration, cancellation or other termination of coverage not less than 10 days
prior to the effective date of such action.
   3.   Fee. A permit fee in the amount of $75.00 shall accompany the
application. In the event the requested license is not granted, the fee paid
shall be refunded to the applicant.
   4.   Permit Issued. If the Council upon investigation finds the application
to be in order and determines that the applicant will collect, transport,
process or dispose of solid waste without hazard to the public health or damage
to the environment and in conformity with law and ordinance, the requested
permit shall be issued to be effective for a period of one year from the date
approved.
   5.   Permit Renewal. An annual permit may be renewed simply upon payment of
the required fee, provided the applicant agrees to continue to operate in
substantially the same manner as provided in the original application and
provided the applicant furnishes the Clerk with a current listing of vehicles,
equipment and facilities in use.
   6.   Permit Not Transferable. No permit authorized by this chapter may be
transferred to another person.
   7.   Owner May Transport. Nothing herein is to be construed so as to prevent
the owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises owned,
occupied or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of properly in
an approved sanitary disposal project.
   8.   Grading or Excavation Excepted. No permit is required for the removal,
hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading or excavation
activities; however, all such materials shall be conveyed in tight vehicles,
trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the material
being transported spills upon any public right-of-way.
CHAPTER 110
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
110.01 Grant of Franchise                      110.05 Restoration of Property
110.02 State Code Restrictions and Limitations 110.06 Indemnification
110.03 Excavations; Trimming Trees             110.07 Maintenance of Facilities
110.04 Relocation of Property                  110.08 Standards of Operation
 
110.01 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
    There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
hereinafter called “Company,” and to its successors and assigns the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in the City a
system for the transmission and distribution of electric energy along, under,
over and upon the streets, avenues, alleys and public places to serve customers
within and without the City and to furnish and sell electric energy to the City
and its inhabitants. This franchise shall be effective for a 25-year period
from and after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. 1
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 2000-04, adopting an electric franchise for the
1 City, was passed and adopted on January 10, 2000.
   
110.02 STATE CODE RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
    The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions
and limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa.
110.03 EXCAVATIONS; TRIMMING TREES.
    The Company shall have the right to erect all necessary poles and to place
thereon the necessary wires, fixtures and accessories, as well as to excavate
and bury conductors for the distribution of electric energy in and through the
City, but all said conduits and poles shall be placed so as not to interfere
with the construction of any water pipes, drain or sewer, or the flow of water
therefrom, which have been or may hereafter be located by authority of the
City. The Company is authorized and empowered to cut and trim at its expense
any trees extending into any street, alley or public ground so as to prevent
limbs or branches from interfering with the wires and facilities of the
Company.
110.04 RELOCATION OF PROPERTY.
    The Company shall, at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its
installations in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in
such manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or any public improvement of, in or about any such street or
alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such improvement.
If the City has a reasonable alternative route for the street, alley or public
improvements, which alternative route would not cause the relocation of the
Company installations, the City shall consider selecting said alternative
route. If relocation of the Company facilities could be avoided by relocating
other franchisee’s or facility user’s equipment and facilities, and said other
franchisee’s or user’s cost of relocation is less than the Company’s cost of
relocation, the City shall consider selecting the route which requires the
other franchisees or users to relocate. If project funds from a source other
than the City are available to pay for the relocation of utility facilities,
the City shall use its best efforts to secure said funds and provide them to
the Company to compensate the Company for the costs of relocation.
110.05 RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.
    In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for
the excavation of conduits or the erection of poles and wires or other
appliances, the Company shall not unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets
and shall replace the surface, restoring the original condition as nearly as
practicable.
110.06 INDEMNIFICATION.
    Company shall indemnify and save harmless City from any and all claims,
suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses on account of injury or damage to any
person or property, caused or occasioned, in whole or in part, by Company’s
negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation or
maintenance of the electric facilities authorized by the franchise, provided,
however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify and save
harmless the City for any costs or damages arising from the negligence of the
City, its officers, employees or agents.
110.07 MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES.
    The Company shall construct, operate and maintain its facilities in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board or its
successors.
110.08 STANDARDS OF OPERATION.
    During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish electric
energy in the quantity and quality consistent with applicable Iowa laws and
regulations.
CHAPTER 111
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
 
111.01 Grant of Franchise                      111.05 Restoration of Property
111.02 State Code Restrictions and Limitations 111.06 Indemnification
111.03 Excavations                             111.07 Extension of System
111.04 Relocation of Property                  111.08 Standard of Operation
 
111.01 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
    There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
hereinafter called “Company,” and to its successors and assigns the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in the City a gas
distribution system, to furnish natural gas along, under and upon the streets,
avenues, alleys and public places to serve customers within and outside the
City and to furnish and sell natural gas to the City and its inhabitants. For
the term of this franchise the Company is granted the right of eminent domain,
the exercise of which is subject to Council approval upon application by the
Company. The franchise shall be effective for a 25-year period from and after
the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. 1
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 2004-10, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on December 13, 2004.
111.02 STATE CODE RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
    The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions
and limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa.
111.03 EXCAVATIONS.
    The Company shall have the right to excavate in any public street for the
purpose of laying, re-laying, repairing or extending gas pipes, mains,
conduits, and other facilities provided that the same shall be so placed as not
to interfere with the construction of any water pipes, drain or sewer or the
flow of water therefrom, which have been or may hereafter be located by
authority of the City.
111.04 RELOCATION OF PROPERTY.
    The Company shall, at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its
installations in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in
such manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or any public improvement of, in or about any such street or
alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such improvement.
If the City has a reasonable alternative route for the street, alley or public
improvements, which alternative route would not cause the relocation of the
Company installations, the City shall consider selecting said alternative
route. If relocation of the Company facilities could be avoided by relocating
other franchisee’s or facility user’s equipment and facilities, and said other
franchisee’s or user’s cost of relocation is less than the Company’s cost of
relocation, the City shall consider selecting the route that requires the other
franchisees or users to relocate. If project funds from a source other than the
City are available to pay for the relocation of utility facilities, the City
shall use its best efforts to secure said funds and provide them to the Company
to compensate the Company for the costs of relocation.
111.05 RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.
    In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for
the installation of gas pipes, conduits or apparatus, Company shall not
unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets and shall replace the surface,
restoring the original condition as nearly as practicable.
111.06 INDEMNIFICATION.
    Company shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and all claims,
suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses on account of injury or damage to any
person or property, caused or occasioned, or allegedly caused or occasioned, in
whole or in part, by Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction,
excavation, operation or maintenance of the gas utilities authorized by the
franchise, provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to
defend, indemnify and save harmless the City for any costs or damages arising
from the negligence of the City, its officers, employees or agents.
111.07 EXTENSION OF SYSTEM.
    The Company shall extend its mains and pipes, and operate and maintain the
system in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities
Board or its successors.
111.08 STANDARD OF OPERATION.
    During the term of the franchise, the Company shall furnish natural gas in
the quantity and quality consistent with applicable Iowa laws and regulations.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required      120.06 Transfer of License or Permit
120.02 General Prohibition             120.07 Location of Premises
120.03 Application Procedure for Local 120.08 Outdoor Service Areas
Authority
120.04 Action by Council               120.09 Amusement Devices
120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
 
120.01 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for
sale, alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122 & 123.171)
120.02 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer or keep for sale,
possess or transport alcoholic liquor, wine or beer except upon the terms,
conditions, limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code
of Iowa, and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty
may be imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39 & 123.50)
120.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE FOR LOCAL AUTHORITY.
   1.   Upon submission of an original application for a liquor license or beer
or wine permit to the Clerk, each person listed in the original application
shall also obtain and provide the Clerk with an officially sealed Iowa Division
of Criminal Investigation (DCI) personal background check at that person’s own
expense. To meet licensing requirements, the proposed licensed premises must
conform to all applicable State laws, local ordinances, and health and fire
regulations. The submission of an original application to the Clerk shall
include a current health and fire inspection. No local authority approval shall
occur until the Clerk has received all of the above.
   2.   Upon submission of an application for renewal of a current liquor
license or beer or wine permit to the Clerk, any person listed in the renewal
application that did not previously obtain and provide the Clerk with an
officially sealed Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation (DCI) personal
background check must do so at that person’s own expense. To meet licensing
requirements, the proposed licensed premises must conform to all applicable
State laws, local ordinances, and health and fire regulations. The submission
of an application for renewal to the Clerk shall include a current health and
fire inspection. No local authority approval shall occur until the Clerk has
received all of the above.
120.04 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a liquor
control license, a retail wine permit, or a retail beer permit and shall
endorse its approval or disapproval on the application, and thereafter the
application, necessary fee and bond, if required, shall be forwarded to the
Alcoholic Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce for such
further action as is provided by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05 PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
   A person holding a liquor license or retail wine or beer permit and the
person’s agents or employees shall not do any of the following:
   1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
   2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license or permit, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on a weekday, and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. on Sunday
and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday; however, a holder of a liquor control
license or retail wine or beer permit granted the privilege of selling
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer on Sunday may sell or dispense alcoholic
liquor, wine, or beer between the hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. of
the following Monday, and further provided that a holder of any class of liquor
control license or the holder of a class “B” beer permit may sell or dispense
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for consumption on the premises between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on Monday when that Monday is New
Year’s Day and beer for consumption off the premises between the hours of 8:00
a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday when that Sunday is the
day before New Year’s Day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b] & 123.150)
   3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona
fide credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its
members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests or to
retail sales by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or
events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
   4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
   5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
   6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
   7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
   8.   Keep on premises covered by a liquor control license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the
Alcoholic Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except
mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption.
However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the premises and are not
for immediate consumption may be consumed on the licensed premises, subject to
rules adopted by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
   9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
   10.   Allow any person other than the licensee, permittee, or employees of
the licensee or permittee to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic
liquor in any bottle or other container that is designed for the transporting
of such beverages, except as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
   11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])
   12.   Permit or allow any person under 21 years of age to remain upon
licensed premises unless over 50 percent of the dollar volume of the business
establishment comes from the sale and serving of prepared foods and unless
prior to 9:00 p.m. This provision does not apply to holders of a class “C” beer
permit only.
   13.   Sell, offer to sell, dispense, or serve for on-premises consumption an
unlimited number of servings of alcoholic liquor, wire, or beer for a fixed
price. Nothing in this subsection shall be constructed to prohibit a holder of
a liquor control license or wine or beer permit (or said holder’s employees or
agents) from: (i) including servings or drinks of alcoholic liquor, wine, or
beer as part of a hotel or motel package which includes overnight
accommodations; (ii) providing a fixed price for an unlimited or indefinite
amount of drinks for a “private event,” which is defined as an event restricted
to a particular group of persons; provided, the licensee or permittee shall
provide means or methods by which to identify persons participating in the
private event, such as the use of a separate room or an identification tag or
badge; or (iii) conducting business as otherwise permitted for a special event
by the Council (provided, however, that no permit holder shall be allowed to
hold such a special event under this subsection more than three times per
year).
120.06 TRANSFER OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
    The City may authorize a licensee or permittee to transfer the license or
permit from one location to another within the City, provided the premises to
which the transfer is to be made would have been eligible for a license or
permit in the first instance. Such transfer must be in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa and may not result in the
violation of any law or ordinance.
120.07 LOCATION OF PREMISES.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Childcare” means a facility that provides childcare or preschool
services as defined by Section 237A.1(4) of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   “Church” means any building or site whose primary use is public
religious worship.
      C.   “Drinking place” means a licensed premises primarily engaged in the
retail sale of alcoholic drinks, such as beer, ale, wine and liquor, for the
consumption on the premises. “Primarily engaged” means gross sales of 50
percent or greater total gross sales which shall be the burden of the licensee
to establish.
      D.   “Outdoor service area” means an area outside of, but immediately
adjacent to a building housing a licensed or permitted premises, which area has
been approved for use for the sale, dispensing or consumption of alcoholic
beverages or beer pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, Chapter 123 of
the Code of Iowa, and Chapter 150 of the Iowa Administrative Code. An outdoor
service area shall include any outdoor area where beer or liquor is sold,
served, carried or consumed by the public and shall be considered as part of
the licensed premises. The same Federal and State laws and local ordinances
that apply to the licensed premises shall also apply to the outdoor service
area.
      E.   “Preschool” means a facility as defined by Section 237A.1(14) of the
Code of Iowa.
      F.   “School” means a public or private elementary, middle, junior or
senior high school.
   2.   Licensed or permitted premises must be located where applicable Zoning
Ordinance allows such use and must be in compliance with applicable fire and
building codes. No such licensed or permitted premises in which a class A, B, C
or D liquor control license or a class B beer permit or class C native wine
permit shall be located within 200 feet of a church, school, preschool or
childcare building if said premises is a drinking place as defined in this
chapter. In determining the distance set out in this section, the measurements
shall be taken on a direct line from the nearest point of the building wherein
the said licensed premises is located to the nearest part of a church, school,
preschool or childcare building.
120.08 OUTDOOR SERVICE AREAS.
   1.   The intent of this section is to provide standards for the approval of
requests for outdoor service areas in conjunction with a bar or restaurant in
which the serving and consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted.
   2.   A licensee or permittee may apply to the Clerk for local permission to
serve the type of alcoholic liquor, beer or wine permitted by the license or
permit in an outdoor service area. Such local authority is subject to the
approval of the Iowa Alcoholic Beverages Division. The licensee or permittee
must demonstrate through its application and support materials the following:
      A.   The outdoor area is contiguous with the licensed establishment.
      B.   The boundary of the outdoor area is delineated by a barrier which
clearly identifies the area in which outdoor consumption of alcohol is allowed.
      C.   The barrier is of a design no less than four feet in height that
discourages the free movement of people between the outdoor service area and
non-licensed or non-permitted areas.
      D.   The outdoor service area shall be constructed of a material that is
in character with the architecture of the contiguous building and shall be in
character with the surrounding areas. A snow fence, field fence or galvanized
chain link shall be an accepted material to delineate the space for outdoor
service areas.
      E.   Densely planted shrubbery in conjunction with railing or fencing may
be permitted if it is determined that the intent is met.
   3.   Construction, expansion or redevelopment of an outdoor service area
shall be subject to all other applicable zoning, building and fire safety
provisions of this code. Prior to such construction, expansion or redevelopment
of an outdoor service area and annually thereafter, the applicant must submit
the following materials to the Clerk:
      A.   A diagram which illustrates the outdoor area, in relation to the
adjacent licensed establishment and other adjacent buildings.
      B.   A dimensioned plan of the proposed outdoor area that identifies all
exit ways.
120.09 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
    The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement
devices possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa.
(Said devices are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or
beer permit, as specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
 
121.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
   4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03 APPLICATION.
   A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of
Revenue or on forms made available or approved by the Department and
accompanied by the required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal
applications shall be filed at least five days prior to the last regular
meeting of the Council in June. If a renewal application is not timely filed,
and a special Council meeting is called to act on the application, the costs of
such special meeting shall be paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
121.04 FEES.
   The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:   FEE:
July, August or September     $ 75.00
October, November or December $ 56.25
January, February or March    $ 37.50
April, May or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05 ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
   Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within 30
days of issuance of a permit.
121.06 REFUNDS.
   A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
121.07 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   No person shall sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 18 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a minor from purchasing tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a vending machine. If a
retailer or employee of a retailer violates the provisions of this section, the
Council shall, after written notice and hearing, and in addition to the other
penalties fixed for such violation, assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22 and 453A.36[6])
121.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
   Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by
the Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
 
122.01 Purpose                   122.06 Transient Merchant Bond
122.02 Definitions               122.07 Time Restriction
122.03 Registration Required     122.08 Exemptions
122.04 Registration Requirements 122.09 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
122.05 Registration Fee          122.10 Mobile Food and Beverage Vendors
 
122.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against
fraud, unfair competition and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by
licensing and regulating peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants.
122.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
   2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
   3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out of
a vehicle which is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting or in the business of a
transient merchant in the City without first registering with the City as
herein provided is in violation of this chapter.
122.04 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The registration shall be in writing, filed with the Clerk, and shall set
forth the following information:
   1.   The person’s name, permanent and local address and business address if
any, driver’s license number and vehicle description.
   2.   The person’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the business and the length of time such business will be carried on in the
City.
   3.   The names of all people who are to be working within the City and their
vehicle descriptions and license numbers.
122.05 REGISTRATION FEE.
   A registration fee of $25.00 per day, per person, shall be paid at the time
of registration to cover the cost of investigating the facts stated therein.
122.06 TRANSIENT MERCHANT BOND.
   1.   Except as provided in Paragraph (3) below, no transient merchant
license shall be issued until the applicant has delivered to the City Clerk a
cash bond for no less than $200.00. The bond shall be held to indemnify and pay
the City any penalties or costs incurred in the enforcement of any of the
sections of this article and indemnify or reimburse any purchaser of goods,
wares, merchandise or stock for any judgement which may be obtained by a
purchaser for damages in any action commenced within three months from the date
of purchase, due to misrepresentations as to the kind, quality or value of such
goods, wares, merchandise or stock, whether the misrepresentations were made by
the owner or by his or her servants, agents or employees, either at the time of
making the sale or through any advertisement of any character, printed or
circulated, with reference to such stock of goods, wares or merchandise or any
part thereof.
   2.   A single bond may be used for all licenses obtained by the same
transient merchant.
   3.   The balance of the bond shall be released by the City Clerk and
returned to the applicant upon request by the applicant at any time more than
four months after expiration of all transient merchant licenses for which the
cash bond was provided, unless the City Clerk has received notice of a pending
action in the state or federal courts seeking a judgment upon a claim eligible
for payment from the bond. Except as otherwise provided by court order, the
City Clerk shall not release any bond during the pendency of any such action.
(Section 122.06 - Ord. 2020-07 - Nov. 20 Supp.)
122.07 TIME RESTRICTION.
   Peddlers and solicitors shall conduct business in the City only during
daylight hours.
122.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for or selling subscriptions
to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America and similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students. Students representing the Norwalk Community School District
conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
   5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
122.09 CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations
operating under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa, or political
candidates for State, local or Federal office desiring to solicit money or to
distribute literature are exempt from the requirements of Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations or individuals are required to submit in writing
to the Clerk the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are
sought, names and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization,
and the period during which such activities are to be carried on.
122.10 MOBILE FOOD AND BEVERAGE VENDORS.
   1.   Mobile Food Unit Licensing. It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in the sale of food or beverages to the public from a temporary or
mobile facility located on public property within the corporate limits of the
City of Cumming without first obtaining a mobile food unit license from the
City, in addition to any other state, federal, or County permits,
certifications and licenses. Mobile food units located on private property are
allowed with a transient merchant permit.
      A.   A mobile food unit license is an annual license that expires on
April 15 each year and must be renewed at least 5 days prior to the first event
after that date.
      B.   Each mobile food unit shall be licensed separately. No license
transfer is allowed.
      C.   Although certain activities may be exempt from the licensing
requirements of this chapter, any food service to the public in the City of
Cumming shall comply with all other local, County and state requirements for
health inspections, licensing, safety and Fire Code requirements.
      D.   The following shall be exempt from this requirement:
         (1)   Catering businesses.
         (2)   Grilling and food preparation activities, including mobile food
units, of brick and mortar establishments on the establishments’ premises for
immediate consumption by patrons or employees.
         (3)   Concession stands associated with sports or recreational venues
that have been approved as part of a site plan.
   2.   License Fee. At the time of the submittal of a license application, the
applicant shall pay to the City Clerk’s office the applicable license and
permit fees in addition to any applicable fees.
      A.   The City Council shall establish the amount of the license fee by
resolution.
      B.   Any licensee who surrenders their license prior to the date of
expiration shall not be entitled to a refund of any portion of the fee.
   3.   Fire Department Inspection.
      A.   All mobile food units that have cooking facilities with grease laden
vapors (Class III and Class IV state licenses) shall be inspected by the
Norwalk Fire Department prior to initiation of business operations within the
City. However, at the discretion of the City Clerk’s office the City may accept
the inspection of the mobile food unit by another Iowa Fire Department.
      B.   Inspections are required annually and prior to submittal of a
license application to the City. It shall be the obligation of the mobile food
vendor to schedule the inspection with the Fire Department.
      C.   Upon completion of the annual fire inspection, if the Fire
Department determines that the mobile food unit passes the inspection, the Fire
Chief or his/her designee shall sign the mobile food unit vendor license
application and identify any conditions for operation as deemed appropriate as
a result of said inspection.
   4.   Mobile Food Unit Vendor Annual Licensing Application.
      A.   License Required. All mobile food vendors operating on public
property within the City of Cumming must obtain a mobile food vendor license
from the City.
Exception: community events sponsored by or approved by City Council.
Application requests shall be filed with the City Clerk’s office on the form
provided by the City. No application request shall be accepted for filing and
processing unless it conforms to the requirements of this title. This would
include a complete and true application and all of the required materials and
information prescribed, accompanied by the appropriate fees.
      B.   Submission Time Frame. Applications must be submitted not less than
five (5) business days prior to the proposed start date of the mobile food unit
activities. The City reserves the right to reject any applications that have
not been timely submitted to the City. The City Clerk shall have the
discretionary right to accept an application made less than five (5) business
days prior to the desired start date.
      C.   Additional Approvals. Receiving approval of a mobile food unit
license from the City shall not preclude, supersede, circumvent, or waive the
applicant’s responsibility to obtain any additional permits, licenses, and
approvals for other applicable local, state, and federal regulations.
      D.   Application Contents. Application shall be made on a form provided
by the City and shall include:
         (1)   Full name of the applicant.
         (2)   Applicant’s contact information including mailing address, phone
numbers and e-mail address.
         (3)   State health inspection certificate with the classification
level of the state license identified.
         (4)   Description of the kitchen facilities, cooking facilities,
preparation area, safety features (suppression system, etc.) of the mobile food
unit.
         (5)   Photographs of the mobile food unit.
         (6)   Make, model and year of vehicle to be used.
         (7)   County, state and license plate number.
         (8)   The length and width of the vehicle.
         (9)   Fire Department signature on application confirming a passing
Fire Department inspection.
         (10)   Application and license fee(s).
      E.   Applications Deemed Withdrawn. Any application received shall be
deemed withdrawn if it has been held in abeyance, awaiting the submittal of
additional requested information from the applicant, and if the applicant has
not communicated in writing with the City and made reasonable progress within
thirty (30) days from the last written notification from the City to the
applicant. The application fee is nonrefundable. Any application deemed
withdrawn shall require submission of a new application and fees to begin a new
review and approval process.
      F.   Issuance of License. Upon completion of the review process and a
determination of compliance with the applicable regulations, the City Clerk
will issue a mobile food unit license. The license shall be placed in the upper
left (passenger side) of the front windshield or the left front side of a
trailer or cart to aid in the visual verification of the licensing for that
year.
      G.   Modification of License After Issuance. Should the mobile food
vendor change the food or beverage being offered during the term of an issued
license that would change the designation of the mobile food unit to a higher
state licensing level classification, a new application and fire inspection
shall be required.
   5.   Mobile Food Units on Public Property. No mobile food unit may be
operated on public property except as approved by the City Clerk’s office.
   6.   Unattended Mobile Food Unit. No mobile food unit shall be left
unattended on any site overnight, unless that property is under the ownership
of the operator of the unit and in compliance with all other City Code
requirements. No mobile food unit shall be allowed to be stored on a site that
is not zoned appropriately for storage and warehousing and/or having received
prior City Council approval through an entitlement process. Any mobile food
unit found unattended shall be considered in violation of these regulations and
subject to license revocation, municipal infraction, towing, or any other
action legally allowed.
   7.   Music and Sound Making Devices. The use of music or sound making
devices as a part of a mobile food unit shall be prohibited, unless expressly
allowed as part of an approved event.
   8.   Mobile Food Unit Performance Standards. Persons conducting business
from a mobile food unit must do so in compliance with the following standards:
      A.   The mobile food vendor must obtain expressed written consent of the
property owner to use the business property on which they propose to operate.
The written consent must be kept in the unit at all times that the unit is on
the property.
      B.   The operator of the mobile food unit shall display their City
license in full view of the public in the unit.
      C.   Mobile food units within three hundred feet (300’) of a residential
use or residentially zoned property, shall be limited to hours of operation
between seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. and nine thirty o’clock (9:30) p.m.
      D.   Mobile food units shall be limited to a maximum duration of 12 hours
per day on any site, unless part of an approved event permit. A mobile food
unit shall be at one location a maximum of five (5) consecutive days per week.
      E.   Only one mobile food unit shall be allowed on a property, unless
part of an approved event or the property has received a multiple vendor
permit. Mobile food units not under a multiple vendor permit and on adjacent
properties must maintain a minimum separation between units of twenty (20)
feet.
      F.   Mobile food units shall serve patrons who are on foot only, no
drive-up service to the mobile food unit itself shall be provided or allowed.
      G.   The mobile food unit must be located on a paved surface, unless
approved by the City Clerk’s office.
      H.   No mobile food unit may be located on a vacant property or lot with
a vacant building.
      I.   No mobile food unit may operate within two hundred feet (200’) of a
permanent restaurant or business that primarily engages in food services
without the written permission of that business.
      J.   No alcoholic beverage may be sold as a part of a mobile food unit.
      K.   Except in Zone C-2 any mobile food unit shall maintain a minimum
fifteen-foot (15’) separation from a building as measured to the closest
building element including awnings or canopies, tents or membrane structures.
Location of the mobile food unit shall not impede pedestrian entering or
exiting of a building. In Zone C-2 the distance shall be seven (7) feet.
      L.   Mobile food vendors shall be placed no closer than 15’ from a front
property line.
      M.   Signs are limited to those that are attached to the exterior of the
mobile unit and must be mounted flat against the unit and not project more than
six inches (6”) from the exterior of the unit. Only two off premise signs
directing patrons to the mobile food unit is allowed.
      N.   During business hours, the mobile food vendor shall provide a trash
receptacle for use by customers.
      O.   The mobile food vendor shall keep the area around the mobile food
unit clear of litter and debris at all times.
      P.   All mobile food units shall be located in such a manner as to not
create a safety hazard, such as blocking emergency access to buildings and the
site, obstructing access to fire hydrants and Fire Department connections,
impeding entering and exiting from a building, creating a visual impediment for
the motoring public at drive entrances, intersections, pedestrian crossings,
etc.
      Q.   No mobile food unit shall be parked in or otherwise impact access
to/from ADA parking stalls.
   9.   Other Licenses and Permits to Be Maintained. Failure of any applicant
to maintain the appropriate County, state and federal licenses and permits,
during the term of the local license or permits shall be considered an unlawful
act and subject to revocation or any other penalties available to the City.
   10.   Suspension or Revocation of License. Any license issued under the
provisions of this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the City as follows:
      A.   Grounds. The City Clerk may suspend any license issued under this
chapter, pending the outcome of an administrative hearing, for any of the
following reasons:
         (1)   The licensee has made fraudulent statements in his/her
application for the license or in the conduct of his/her business.
         (2)   The licensee has violated this chapter or any other chapter of
this Code or has otherwise conducted his/her business in an unlawful manner.
         (3)   The licensee has conducted his/her business in such manner as to
endanger the public welfare, safety, order, or morals.
         (4)   The City Clerk has received and investigated three (3) or more
found complaints during the licensed period related to the manner in which the
licensee is conducting business.
      B.   Notice. The City Clerk shall have the licensee served with notice
either in person or by regular mail to the licensee’s address shown on the
license application notifying them of the license suspension, the specific
reason(s) for such action, and date and time of hearing with the City Clerk to
review the particulars of the suspension. The licensee shall be prohibited from
any further activities covered by the license until such time that the hearing
has been held and a determination of suspension and revocation resolved.
      C.   Hearing. A hearing shall be conducted by the City Clerk not more
than five (5) business days after he/she has suspended a license. The licensee
and any complainants may be present to determine the truth of the alleged
violation of this chapter. Should the licensee or his/her authorized
representative fail to appear without good cause, the City Clerk may proceed
with the hearing and make his/her findings.
      D.   Revocation. After the City Clerk has reviewed the facts, he/she
shall revoke a license if he/she finds by the preponderance of the evidence
that a violation has occurred. The revocation shall be effective immediately.
      E.   Appeal. If the City Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the
licensee or the applicant shall have a right to a hearing before the Municipal
Code Hearing Officer as provided in Section 122.15 of this Code. The Municipal
Code Hearing Officer may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the City
Clerk.
      F.   Effect of Revocation. Revocation or denial of any license shall bar
the licensee or applicant from being eligible for any license under this
chapter for a period of one year from the date of the revocation or denial.
There shall be no refund of any fees for any revocation.
   11.   Penalty. Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this chapter
for any particular provision or section, violations of this chapter are simple
misdemeanors subject to a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
and may also be punishable as municipal infractions subject to a civil penalty
as set forth in this Code. Each day a municipal infraction occurs and/or is
permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense. Police officers, code
enforcement officers and the Police Chief’s designees shall have the authority
to issue citations for violations of this chapter, and shall have the
discretion to enforce this chapter as either a simple misdemeanor or municipal
infraction.
(Section 122.10 - Ord. 2020-07 - Nov. 20 Supp.)
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01 House Mover Defined 123.07 Permit Issued
123.02 Permit Required     123.08 Public Safety
123.03 Application         123.09 Time Limit
123.04 Bond Required       123.10 Removal by City
123.05 Insurance Required  123.11 Protect Pavement
123.06 Permit Fee          123.12 Overhead Wires
 
123.01 HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
   A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or
similar structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the
building or structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks,
dollies, or any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building or
similar structure to be moved. Buildings of less than 100 square feet are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
123.03 APPLICATION.
   Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the
Clerk. The application shall include:
   1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
   2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
   3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Mayor, street
superintendent, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04 BOND REQUIRED.
   The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$100,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
123.05 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that
the applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration
of the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
   1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
123.06 PERMIT FEE.
   A permit fee of $25.00 shall be payable at the time of filing the
application with the Clerk. A separate permit shall be required for each house,
building or similar structure to be moved.
123.07 PERMIT ISSUED.
   Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate,
and payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
123.08 PUBLIC SAFETY.
   At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag
persons at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to
the sides, behind and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.09 TIME LIMIT.
   No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to
remain upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours
without having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.10 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation
of Section
123.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.11 PROTECT PAVEMENT.
   It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.12 OVERHEAD WIRES.
   The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone,
cable television and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 124
JUNKYARD LICENSING
 
124.01 License Required                124.06 Application
124.02 Lot Restrictions                124.07 Annual License Fee
124.03 Junkyard Restrictions           124.08 License Not Transferable
124.04 License Within Corporate Limits 124.09 Revocation of License
124.05 Issuance of License
 
124.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
    No person shall engage in the business of dismantling automobiles, farm
machinery or any other equipment for salvage purposes within the corporate
limits of the City without first obtaining a license from the City Council
permitting said person to engage in the junk yard business.
124.02 LOT RESTRICTIONS.
    No person shall be permitted to wreck, dismantle, junk or otherwise reduce
automobiles, farm machinery or any other property to scrap material for the
salvage there from upon a lot whose boundary line is at any point closer than
two hundred (200) feet to the nearest boundary line of a lot on which a
dwelling is located.
124.03 JUNKYARD RESTRICTIONS.
    All lots or parts of lots within the City where junkyard business is
carried on as contemplated by this chapter or at any location where
automobiles, farm machinery or any other property is stored or kept for salvage
purposes must be enclosed by a tight wood or corrugated metal fence no less
than 10 feet high. If wood is used in any part of the fence, it shall be kept
painted at all times. The entire fence must be maintained with a good
presentable appearance. In no part of the yard shall the salvage or junked
material be piled or stacked higher than the fence which surrounds the yard.
Such a business may also be carried on in an enclosed building.
124.04 LICENSE WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
    Any person desiring to engage in the junkyard business or in the wrecking
or dismantling of farm machinery, automobiles or any other type of property for
salvage purposes within the corporate limits of the City must first obtain a
license from the City Council permitting the operation of such a business.
Existing junkyard businesses must comply with the provisions of this chapter
before renewal of the license for said business.
124.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
    The City Council shall be the sole judge as to whether or not a license
shall be issued to any person authorizing such person to engage in the junkyard
or salvage business within the City.
124.06 APPLICATION.
    In making application for a license to engage in the junkyard or salvage
business within the City, the person wishing to obtain a license therefor must
set forth the following information upon the application.
   1.   Name and place of residence.
   2.   The proposed location of the yard or place of business.
   3.   The nature of the business such person desires to carry on upon said
premises.
124.07 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
    The annual license fee authorizing any person to engage in the junk or
junkyard business within the City shall be determined by the City Council and
may be renewed for a like period upon proper application therefor and upon
approval by the City Council.
124.08 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
    No license for the operation of a junkyard or place for dismantling
automobiles, farm machinery or other property for scrap as herein provided
shall be transferable to any other person.
124.09 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
    Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be in
violation of this Code of Ordinances and in addition, the license shall be
revoked.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                 135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling on Barricaded    135.12 Dumping of Snow
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles
 
135.01 REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
   It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy or
carry away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard or other
article or things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed
thereupon for the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places
in said street or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02 OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or
alley in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03 PLACING DEBRIS ON.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04 PLAYING IN.
   It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05 TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
   It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street
or alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed
thereon by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer or
member of the Fire Department.
135.06 USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
   It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07 WASHING VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley
for the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible
material in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09 EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking
or alley except in accordance with the following:
   1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first
obtaining a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with
the City and shall contain the following:
      A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
      B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is
to be made;
      C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
      D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
   2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner
that will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.
   3.   Barricades, Fencing and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing or warning lights shall be paid to the
City by the permit holder/property owner.
   4.   Bond Required. The applicant shall post with the City a penal bond in
the minimum sum of $25,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue
such bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for
any damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of administration of this section. In lieu
of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $25,000.00 may be filed with the City.
   5.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
      A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
      B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
   6.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
   7.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City.
Backfill shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved
street or alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and
approved by the City. The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City
with notice at least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is
desired.
   8.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
   9.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
   10.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
   11.   Permit Fee. A permit fee of $50.00 shall be payable at the time of
filing the application with the City. A separate permit shall be required for
each excavation.
   12.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and
insurance certificate, and payment of any required fees, a permit shall be
issued.
   13.   Permit Exemption. Utility companies are exempt from the permit
application requirement of this section. They shall, however, comply with all
other pertinent provisions.
135.10 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way. †
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section
�136.04 relating to property owner’s responsibility for maintenance of
  sidewalks.
135.11 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
   If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12 DUMPING OF SNOW.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be
thrown, pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the business district it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13 DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
   The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.11 Failure to Repair or
                                             Barricade
136.02 Definitions                           136.12 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.03 Removal of Snow and Ice               136.13 Encroaching Steps
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.14 Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.15 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.16 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                       136.17 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                    136.18 Merchandise Display
136.09 Location                              136.19 Sales Stands
136.10 Barricades and Warning Lights
 
136.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
   2.   “Defective sidewalk” means any public sidewalk exhibiting one or more
of the following characteristics:
      A.   Vertical separations equal to three-fourths inch or more.
      B.   Horizontal separations equal to one inch or more.
      C.   Holes or depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more and at
least four inches in diameter.
      D.   Spalling over 50 percent of a single square of the sidewalk with one
or more depressions equal to one-half inch or more.
      E.   Spalling over less than 50 percent of a single square of the
sidewalk with one or more depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more.
      F.   A single square of sidewalk cracked in such a manner that no part
thereof has a piece greater than one square foot.
      G.   A sidewalk with any part thereof missing to the full depth.
      H.   A change from the design or construction grade equal to or greater
than three-fourths inch per foot.
   3.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
   4.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
   5.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal, of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
136.03 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations
promptly from sidewalks, or if ice cannot be removed, to treat the ice with
sand, salt, or other non-slippery substance on a continuous basis while the ice
is present. The cleaned or treated area of the sidewalk must be a minimum of 36
inches wide. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or accumulations
within 48 hours after cessation of snow or ice fall, or continue to treat the
surface while the ice is present, the City may do so and assess the costs
against the property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to
remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b & e])
136.04 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The abutting property owner shall repair, replace, or reconstruct, or cause
to be repaired, replaced, or reconstructed, all broken or defective sidewalks
and maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition any sidewalk outside the lot
and property lines and inside the curb lines or, in the absence of a curb, any
sidewalk between the property line and that portion of the public street used
or improved for vehicular purposes. The abutting property owner may be liable
for damages caused by failure to maintain the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
136.05 CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
   If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within 30 days and if such action
is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council may require
the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d & e])
136.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
   The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any
street or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such
improvement to abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 384 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such
person has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work. A written application for such permit
shall be filed with the City.
136.08 SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
   Sidewalks repaired, replaced or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be constructed in accordance with the Statewide Urban Design and
Specifications and such other sidewalk standards as adopted by resolution of
the Council. All such work shall be subject to inspection and approval by the
City. If such work does not comply with the provisions of this chapter, the
City, after notice to the property owner, shall cause the sidewalks to be
constructed in the proper manner and assess the cost for such work against the
abutting property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
136.09 LOCATION.
    Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge (edge nearest
the abutting private property) one foot from the property line, unless the
Council establishes a different distance due to special circumstances. All
sidewalks in the business district shall extend from the lot line to the curb
line. The business district, for the purposes of this section, shall be those
sidewalks in areas zoned C-2 (Central Business District).
136.10 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue,
highway, passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when
any sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.11 FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
   It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.12 INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
   No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.13 ENCROACHING STEPS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.14 OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
**    It is unlawful for a person to: **
   1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
   2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on
any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the
public.
   3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings
on or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.15 FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.16 DEFACING.
   It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing
on any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.17 DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.18 MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
   It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods
or merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with
the free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case
shall more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for
such purposes.
136.19 SALES STANDS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand
for the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01 POWER TO VACATE.
   When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of
the City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public
grounds shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for its study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council.
The Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03 NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
   The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the
time at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04 FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
   2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05 DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06 DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
   The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental
body for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] & 364.7[3])
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
80-1
96-4          November 14, 1995
2000-02       November 8, 1999
2006-04       March 13, 2006
2007-07       June 11, 2007
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Established Grades 138.02 Record Maintained
 
138.01 ESTABLISHED GRADES.
   The grades of all streets, alleys and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.02 RECORD MAINTAINED.
   The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01 NAMING NEW STREETS.
   New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred
to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02 CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
   The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03 RECORDING STREET NAMES.
   Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04 OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
   Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Cumming, Iowa.”
139.05 REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
   If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 150
TREES
 
150.01 Definition            150.04 Trimming Trees to Be Supervised
150.02 Planting Restrictions 150.05 Disease Control
150.03 Duty to Trim Trees    150.06 Inspection and Removal
 
150.01 DEFINITION.
   For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or
highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic.
150.02 PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
   No tree shall be planted in any parking or street.
150.03 DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
   The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks. If the
abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on
the abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five
days. If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c, d & e])
150.04 TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
   Except as allowed in Section
150.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a street or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
150.05 DISEASE CONTROL.
   Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect
or disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
150.06 INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
   The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in
the City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased or damaged, and such trees
and shrubs shall be subject to the following:
   1.   City Property. If it is determined that any such condition exists on
any public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal. The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon.
   2.   Private Property. If it is determined with reasonable certainty that
any such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or
to adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the
Council shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or person in charge
of such property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14
days of said notification. If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council may
cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b & h])
CHAPTER 155
BUILDING REGULATIONS
 
155.01 Purpose                   155.06 Fee Schedule
155.02 Administrative Provisions 155.07 Setbacks
155.03 Building Official         155.08 Adoption of Building Codes
155.04 Permits Required          155.09 Conflict with State Laws
155.05 Application for Permit
 
155.01 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to provide and establish reasonable rules
and regulations for the construction and remodeling of residential property and
the construction of other buildings in the City, and to adopt building codes
regulating the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving,
removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and
maintenance of buildings and structures, and to provide for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees.
155.02 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
    Administration of this chapter shall be as provided in this section and in
the sections of the several codes herein named, which are hereby adopted by
reference, to provide procedures for local enforcement of the codes,
constituting the Cumming, Iowa, Building Codes.
155.03 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
    The Building Official shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to approval
of the City Council, for the enforcement of the Building, Electrical, Plumbing,
Mechanical, Fire, Housing, Existing Buildings, and Property Maintenance Codes,
and such other ordinances as shall be assigned to said official. The Building
Official shall perform such other duties as may be required by the Mayor and
City Council. The Building Official shall be accountable for the issuance of
all applicable permits under this chapter and shall have the power to render
interpretations of this Code and to adopt and enforce rules and regulations
supplemental to this Code, subject to approval of the Council, as said official
may deem necessary in order to clarify the application of the provisions of
this Code. Such rules, regulations, and interpretations shall be in conformity
with the intent and purpose of this Code.
155.04 PERMITS REQUIRED.
    No person shall erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge or improve any
building or structure in the City, except those exempted under the adopted
International Building Code, or cause the same to be done, without first
obtaining a separate building permit for each such building or structure.
155.05 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
    To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application therefor
in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such applicant shall:
   1.   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made;
   2.   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by legal
description, street address or similar description that will readily identify
and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
   3.   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is intended;
   4.   Be accompanied by construction documents, site plan and other
information as may be required;
   5.   Be signed by the applicant or the applicant’s authorized agent, who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
   6.   State the valuation of the proposed work;
   7.   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the Clerk
or Building Official.
155.06 FEE SCHEDULE.
    The Building Permit Fee Schedule, as established by resolution of the
Council, is on file at City Hall.
155.07 SETBACKS.
    All setbacks shall conform with the Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 165 of this Code of Ordinances).
155.08 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODES.
    Pursuant to published notice and public hearing, as required by law, the
following codes are hereby adopted as and shall constitute the Building Code of
the City, to regulate the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration,
repair, moving, removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy, equipment, use,
height, area, and maintenance of buildings or structures within the City, and
the same are by this reference incorporated herein as fully and completely as
if set forth in full herein.
   1.   The International Building Code, 2015 Edition and Appendix Chapters, as
published by the International Code Council.
      A.   Sec. 101.1. Title. Insert “Cumming.”
      B.   Sec. 101.4.1. Electrical. After ICC Electrical Code insert “and the
National Electrical Code, 2014 Edition, as published by the National Fire
Protection Association.”
      C.   Sec. 104.11. Alternative methods. After paragraph insert “the Iowa
Administrative Code 661, Chapter 16, Div. VI, Part 2 Manufactured Home
Construction is hereby adopted for installation of mobile (manufactured)
homes.”
      D.   Sec. 108.2. Fees. After “in accordance with the” insert “attached
schedule as established by Cumming.”
      E.   Sec. 108.3. Valuations. At the end of last sentence delete period
and insert “using the latest Building Valuation Data Sheet.”
      F.   Sec. 1612.3. Insert “Cumming.”
      G.   Sec. 1612.3. Insert “2015.”
   2.   The International Mechanical Code and Appendix Chapters, 2015 Edition,
as published by the International Code Council.
      A.   Sec. 101.1. Title. Insert “Cumming.”
      B.   Sec. 106.5.2. Fee Schedule. Insert “Cumming.”
      C.   Sec. 108.4. Penalties. Insert “Municipal Infraction, punishable by a
fine specified in the Cumming Schedule of Fines.”
      D.   Sec. 108.5. Stop work. Insert “Municipal Infraction, punishable by a
fine specified in the Cumming Schedule of Fines.”
   3.   The International Plumbing Code and Appendix Chapters, 2015 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council.
      A.   Sec. 101.0. Title. Insert “Cumming.”
      B.   Sec. 106.6.2. Fee Schedule. Insert “Cumming” fee schedule.
      C.   Sec. 108.4. Penalties. Insert “Municipal Infraction, punishable by a
fine specified in the Cumming Schedule of Fines.”
      D.   Sec. 108.5. Stop work. Insert “Municipal Infraction, punishable by a
fine specified in the Cumming Schedule of Fines.”
      E.   Sec. 305.6.1. Insert “42 inches” in 2 places.
      F.   Sec. 904.1. Insert “12 inches.”
   4.   The National Electrical Code and Appendix Chapters, 2014 Edition, as
published by the National Fire Protection Association and the International
Electrical Code, 2014 Edition, as published by the International Code Council.
      A.   Sec. 101.1. Title. Insert “Cumming.”
      B.   Sec. 404.2. Fee Schedule. Insert “Cumming” fee schedule.
   5.   The International Fire Code and Appendix Chapters, 2018 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council.
      A.   Sec. 101.1. Title. Insert “Cumming.”
      B.   Sec. 109.3. Penalties. Insert “Municipal Infraction, punishable by a
fine specified in the Cumming Schedule of Fines.”
      C.   Sec. 111.4. Stop work. Insert “Municipal Infraction, punishable by a
fine specified in the Cumming Schedule of Fines.”
      D.   Modify Code Section: IFC 903.2.8. Add the following exceptions:
         Exceptions:
         1.   An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be
required where additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses that do
not have an automatic residential fire sprinkler system installed.
         2.   Townhouse structures that contain eight (8) or less dwelling
units.
         3.   Townhouse structures less than eighteen thousand (18,000) square
feet floor space, exclusive of any garages.
         4.   An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be
required where additions or alterations are made to existing one-and two-family
dwellings that are not already provided with an automatic residential fire
sprinkler system.
         5.   One-and two-family dwellings containing less than eight thousand
(8,000) square feet of floor space, excluding attached garage and other
unenclosed areas.
(Subsection 5 – Ord. 2021-04 – May 22 Supp.)
   6.   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 Edition, as published
by the International Code Council.
      A.   Sec. 101.1. Title. Insert “Cumming.”
      B.   Sec. 103.6. Fee Schedule. Insert “Cumming” and “Rental Housing
Compliance Inspection Fee Schedule.”
      C.   Sec. 304.14. Screens. Insert “April 15” and “September 15.”
      D.   Sec. 602.3. Heat. Delete “during the period from (date) to (date).”
      E.   Sec. 602.4. Work spaces. Delete “during the period from (date) to
(date).”
   7.   The International Residential Code for One & Two Family Dwellings and
Appendix Chapters, 2015 Edition, as published by the International Code
Council.
      A.   Sec. R101.1. Title. Insert “Cumming.”
      B.   Sec. R104.11. Alternative methods. After paragraph insert “The Iowa
Administrative Code 661, Chapter 16, Div. VI, Part 2, Manufactured Home
Construction is hereby adopted for installation of manufactured (mobile)
homes.”
      C.   Sec. R108.2. Permit fees. After “in accordance with the” insert
“attached schedule as established by Cumming for the regular Building Permit
Fee Schedule.”
   8.   The International Energy Conservation Code and Appendix Chapters, 2015
Edition, as published by the International Code Council.
      A.   Sec. 101.1. Title. Insert “Cumming.”
   9.   International Fuel Gas Code and Appendix Chapters, 2015 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council.
      A.   Sec. 101.1. Title. Insert “Cumming.”
      B.   Sec. 106.5.2. Fee Schedule. Insert “Cumming.”
      C.   Sec. 108.4. Penalties. Insert “Municipal Infraction, punishable by a
fine specified in the Cumming Schedule of Fines.”
      D.   Sec. 108.5. Permit fees. Delete after “established” and insert “for
the various disciplines herein adopted.”
155.09 CONFLICT WITH STATE LAWS.
    Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to be in conflict with State
laws. In the event of such conflict, the State law shall prevail.
(Ch. 155 - Ord. 2019-10 - Nov. 20 Supp.)
CHAPTER 156
SWIMMING POOLS AND HOT TUBS
 
156.01 Purpose            156.04 Construction
156.02 Permit Application 156.05 Enclosures
156.03 Procedure          156.06 Operation
 
156.01 PURPOSE.  
   For the purpose of this chapter, a private swimming pool is one that is used
by the owner or renter of the property and invited guests (without any payment
for the pool). The pool is defined as an outdoor body of water in an artificial
receptacle over 24 inches in depth, whether permanent or temporary in nature,
and all equipment, appliances, and facilities for the operation of the pool.
156.02 PERMIT APPLICATION.
    No person shall construct a swimming pool or any alteration, addition
remodeling or other improvement to such pool without a permit, or maintain such
pool contrary to the provisions of this chapter. Such person shall make
application to the City for a permit to construct such pool.
156.03 PROCEDURE.  The plans and specifications, plat plan and site plan, as
well as other pertinent explanatory data, shall be submitted with each building
permit application. If such plans meet the requirements of this chapter and a
permit fee (determined by the building inspector) is paid, a building permit
shall be issued.
156.04 CONSTRUCTION.
    Swimming pools are allowed as an accessory use in all zoning districts and
are subject to setback requirements for principal buildings in the zoning
district in which they are located. All residential pools must be located in a
side or rear yard. The building permit for a pool must include the dimensions
and depth as well as the location of the enclosure at least 54 inches in
height.
156.05 ENCLOSURES.
    Every outdoor swimming pool shall be completely surrounded by a fence or
wall not less than 54 inches in height and at least four feet from each side of
the pool. Such fence or wall shall be non-climbable, with no openings, holes or
gaps larger than four inches. It shall be constructed sufficiently strong as to
make the pool inaccessible to small children. All gates shall be equipped with
a self-closing and self-latching device for keeping the gate closed at all
times when it is not in actual use, except for doors from a house or building
that is part of the barrier. This section does not apply to the following: a
hot tub or spa with a safety cover complying with ASTM F1346.
156.06 OPERATION.
    It is required that all swimming pools be installed and operated by the
owner or responsible party to be in accordance with requirements set forth by
the Iowa State Health Department or other regulating agencies of the State of
Iowa or Warren County, and the most current International Residential Code,
Appendix G, Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs, with attention to water quality
and safety. Safety regulations require a life preserver in the pool area
secured by a rope not less than one-half the distance of the pool. All pools
may be subject to inspection by regulating agencies, but the City is not
responsible to provide regular inspection or water testing.
CHAPTER 157
DESIGN STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
 
157.01 Title          157.03 Adoption of Standards and Specifications
157.02 Administration 157.04 Conflict with State Laws
 
157.01 TITLE.
    This chapter shall be known as the City of Cumming, Iowa, Design Standards
and Specifications for Public Improvements and may be cited as such.
157.02 ADMINISTRATION.
    Administration of this chapter shall be as provided in this section and in
the following section of the codes named which are hereby adopted by reference
to provide procedures for local enforcement of the codes, constituting the
Cumming Design Standards and Specifications for Public Improvements. The
Planning and Zoning Commission, as appointed by the City Council, is
responsible for the preliminary approval of plats and enforcement of the
Cumming Design Standards and Specifications for Public Improvements before the
final plats have been approved by the Council. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall delegate City planning and engineering tasks to consultants as
approved by the Council for the complete review of plans that require
consultation. The costs of such review shall be paid by the developer and
negotiated prior to the review. The City Clerk shall be accountable for the
filing of all plats and collection of fees.
157.03 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
    Pursuant to published notice and public hearing, as required by law, the
1993 Des Moines Metropolitan Design Standards Manual and the 1998 Urban
Standard Specifications for Public Improvements Manual, or as amended or
updated, as written by the Des Moines Metropolitan Improvement Design Standards
and Specification Committee and as published by Snyder and Associates, Inc.
Ankeny, Iowa, are hereby adopted as “The Design Standards and Specifications
for Public Improvements” of the City, to regulate the construction of
infrastructure such as streets, water, storm water, sewer, utilities,
sidewalks, street lights and tree planting in public rights- of-way in the
City, and the same are by this reference incorporated herein completely as if
set forth in full herein with the exception of items as listed specifically in
this section.
157.04 CONFLICT WITH STATE LAWS.
    Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to be in conflict with State
laws. In the event of such conflict, the State law shall prevail.
CHAPTER 158
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
 
158.01 Intent              158.04 Bulk Regulations
158.02 Definitions         158.05 Application Required
158.03 General Regulations
 
158.01 INTENT.
    The intent of this section is to balance the need for clean, renewable
energy resources and the necessity to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of the community. The City finds these regulations are necessary to
ensure that small wind energy conversion systems are appropriately designed,
sited, and installed.
158.02 DEFINITIONS.
    For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Height, total system” means the height above grade of the system,
including the generating unit and the highest vertical extension of any blades
or rotors.
   2.   “Height, tower” means the height above grade of the fixed portion of
the tower, excluding the generation unit and attached blades or rotors.
   3.   “Off grid” means an electrical system that is not connected to a
utility distribution grid.
   4.   “Qualified professional” means an individual certified by the
manufacturer of a WECS as qualified to install that manufacturer’s WECS.
   5.   “Small Wind Energy Conversion System” (SWECS) means a wind energy
conversion system which has a rated capacity of up to 100 kilowatts and which
is incidental and subordinate to a permitted use on the same parcel. A system
is considered a SWECS only if it supplies electrical power solely for on-site
use, except that when a parcel on which the system is installed also receives
electrical power supplied by a utility company, excess electrical power
generated and not presently needed for on-site use may be used by the utility
company in accordance with section 199, chapter 15.11(5) of the Iowa
Administrative Code.
   6.   “Tower” means the vertical component of a wind energy conversion system
that elevates the wind turbine generator and attached blades above the ground.
   7.   “Wind Energy Conversion System” (WECS) means an aggregation of parts
including the base, tower, generator, rotor, blades, supports, guy wires, and
accessory equipment such as utility interconnect and battery banks, etc., in
such configuration as necessary to convert the power of wind into mechanical or
electrical energy, e.g., wind charger, windmill, or wind turbine.
   8.   Wind turbine generator” means the component of a wind energy conversion
system that transforms mechanical energy from the wind into electrical energy.
158.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   1.   A small wind energy conversion system (SWECS) shall be allowed only as
a conditional accessory use to a permitted principal use or approved permitted
conditional principal use.
   2.   It is unlawful to construct, erect, install, alter, or locate any SWECS
within the City, unless a permitted conditional use permit has been obtained
from the Board of Adjustment. The permitted conditional use permit may be
revoked by resolution of the Board of Adjustment any time the approved system
does not comply with the rules set forth in this chapter and the conditions
imposed by the Board of Adjustment. The owner/operator of the SWECS must also
obtain any other permits required by other Federal, State and local agencies/
departments prior to erecting the system.
   3.   Installation must be done by a qualified professional and according to
manufacturer’s recommendations.
   4.   No more than one SWECS may be placed on any residential estate or
single- family residential zoned lot.
   5.   Applications for any SWECS shall be accompanied by standard drawings of
the wind turbine structure, including the tower, base, and footings. An
engineering analysis of the tower showing compliance with the applicable
regulations and certified by a licensed professional engineer shall also be
submitted.
   6.   Location:
      A.   No part of a SWECS shall be located within or over drainage,
utility, or other established easements, or on or over property lines.
      B.   A SWECS shall be located entirely in the rear yard.
      C.   A SWECS shall not be located in any required setback.
      D.   A SWECS shall be located in compliance with the guidelines of
applicable Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations as amended from
time to time.
      E.   No SWECS shall be constructed within 20 feet laterally of an
overhead electrical power line (excluding secondary electrical service lines or
service drops). The setback from underground electric distribution lines shall
be at least five feet.
      F.   No part of a SWECS, including guy wires, may be located closer than
ten feet to any property line.
   7.   The SWECS shall be a neutral color such as white or light gray. Other
colors may be allowed at the discretion of the Board of Adjustment. The surface
shall be non-reflective.
   8.   No lights shall be installed on the tower, unless required to meet FAA
regulations.
   9.   No signage or advertising of any kind shall be permitted on the tower
or any associated structures.
   10.   All climbing apparatus shall be located at least 12 feet above the
ground, and the tower must be designed to prevent climbing within the first 12
feet.
   11.   Facilities shall be well maintained in an operational condition that
poses no potential safety hazard.
   12.   The location of the SWECS shall not result in the net loss of required
parking as specified in the zoning regulations.
   13.   No SWECS shall be installed until evidence has been given that the
utility company has been informed of the customer’s intent to install an
interconnected customer owned generator. Off grid systems shall be exempt from
this requirement.
   14.   The SWECS, if interconnected to a utility system, shall meet the
requirements for interconnection and operation as set forth by the utility and
the Iowa Utilities Board.
   15.   A SWECS shall be used exclusively to supply electrical power for on-
site consumption, except that excess electrical power generated by the SWECS
and not presently needed for on-site use may be used by the utility company in
accordance with section 199, chapter 15.11(5) of the Iowa Administrative Code.
   16.   Except during short term events including utility outages and severe
wind events, a SWECS shall be designed, installed, and operated so that the
noise generated does not exceed the maximum residential noise levels of 55 dBa
or the maximum commercial noise levels of 65 dBa.
   17.   All SWECS shall be designed and constructed so as not to cause radio
and television interference. If it is determined that the SWECS is causing
electromagnetic interference, the operator shall take the necessary corrective
action to eliminate this interference including relocation or removal of the
facilities, subject to the approval of the appropriate City authority. A permit
granting a SWECS may be revoked if electromagnetic interference from the SWECS
becomes evident.
   18.   The enactment of this section does not constitute the granting of an
easement by the City. The owner/operator shall acquire covenants, easements, or
similar documentation to assure sufficient wind to operate the SWECS unless
adequate accessibility to the wind is provided by the site.
   19.   The owner/operator of a SWECS must demonstrate liability insurance of
not less than $1,000,000.00 coverage.
   20.   Applications for SWECS shall be accompanied by a line drawing of the
electrical components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that
the manner of installation conforms to the National Electrical Code.
   21.   If the SWECS remains nonfunctional or inoperative for a continuous
period of one year, the system shall be deemed to be abandoned. The owner/
operator shall remove the abandoned system at their expense. Removal of the
system includes the entire structure, transmission equipment, and fencing from
the property excluding foundations. Non-function or lack of operation may be
proven by reports from the interconnected utility. For off grid systems the
City shall have the right to enter the property at its sole discretion to
determine if the off grid system is generating power. Such generation may be
proven by use of an amp meter. The owner/operator and successors shall make
available to the City all reports to and from the purchaser of energy from the
SWECS if requested. If removal of towers and appurtenant facilities is
required, the City shall notify the owner/operator.
   22.   By the acceptance of a conditional use permit or building permit to
authorize construction of a SWECS, the owner/operator grants permission to the
City to enter the property to remove the SWECS pursuant to the terms of
approval and to assure compliance with the other conditions set forth in the
permit. Removal shall be at the expense of the owner/operator.
158.04 BULK REGULATIONS.
   1.   Setbacks. The minimum distance between any SWECS and any property line
shall be a distance that is equivalent to 110 percent of the total system
height.
   2.   Minimum Lot Size. The minimum lot size for a SWECS shall be one acre.
   3.   Maximum Tower Height. Tower height shall be measured from the ground to
the top of the tower, excluding the wind turbine generator and blades. In no
case shall the maximum tower height of a SWECS exceed 100 feet.
   4.   Maximum Blade Diameter. The maximum diameter of the blades for a SWECS
shall be 21 feet.
   5.   Clearance of Blade. No portion of a SWECS blade shall extend within 20
feet of the ground. No blades may extend over parking areas, driveways or
sidewalks. No blade may extend within 20 feet of the nearest tree or structure.
158.05 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
    Application for SWECS shall be made on forms provided by the City. No
action may be taken regarding requests for SWECS until completed applications
have been filed and fees paid.
CHAPTER 160
FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS
160.01 Purpose                                    160.13 Administration
160.02 Definitions                                160.14 Flood Plain
                                                  Development Permit Required
160.03 General Provisions                         160.15 Application for Permit
160.04 Rules for Interpretation of District       160.16 Action on Permit
Boundaries                                        Application
                                                  160.17 Construction and Use
160.05 Compliance                                 to Be as Provided in
                                                  Application and Plans
160.06 Abrogation and Greater Restrictions        160.18 Conditional Uses,
                                                  Appeals and Variances
                                                  160.19 Factors Upon Which the
160.07 Interpretation                             Decision to Grant Variances
                                                  Is Based
160.08 Warning and Disclaimer of Liability        160.20 Conditions Attached to
                                                  Variances
160.09 Establishment of Zoning (Overlay)          160.21 Appeals to the Court
Districts
160.10 Floodway (Overlay) District – FW         160.22 Nonconforming Uses
160.11 Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District – FF  160.23 Amendments
160.12 General Flood Plain (Overlay) District –  
FP
 
160.01 PURPOSE
   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and its residents and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and convenience of its
residents by minimizing flood losses with provisions designed to:
   1.   Reserve sufficient flood plain area for the conveyance of flood flows
so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
   2.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
   3.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public utilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
   4.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
   5.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year. (See 100-year flood.)
   3.   “Base flood elevation (BFE)” means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. (Also see “lowest
floor.”)
   5.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
“Development” does not include “minor projects” or “routine maintenance of
existing buildings and facilities” as defined in the chapter. It also does not
include gardening, plowing and similar practices that do not involve filling or
grading.
   6.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the “start of
construction” commenced before the effective date of the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map. (May also be referred to as “existing structure.”)
   7.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was completed before the
effective date of these flood plain management regulations.
   8.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   9.   “Factory-built home” means any structure designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, “factory-built home” includes
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes and also includes
“recreational vehicles” which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   10.   “Factory-built home park” means a parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or lease.
   11.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   12.   “Flood elevation” means the elevation floodwaters would reach at a
particular site during the occurrence of a specific flood. For instance, the
100-year flood elevation is the elevation of floodwaters related to the
occurrence of the 100-year flood.
   13.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)” means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   14.   “Flood insurance study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map(s). The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   15.   “Flood plain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   16.   “Flood plain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
flood plains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, flood proofing, and flood plain management regulations.
   17.   “Flood proofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   18.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the flood plains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge floodwaters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot.
   19.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the flood plain, other than
the floodway, which can be filled, leveed, or otherwise obstructed without
causing substantially higher flood levels or flow velocities.
   20.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   21.    “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing in
the National Register;
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      C.   Individually listed on a State inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either: (i) an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   22.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when all the following criteria are met:
      A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during floods with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of
Section
160.11(4)(A); and
      B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage; and
      C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the 100-year flood level; and
      D.   The enclosed area is not a “basement” as defined in this section.
In cases where the lowest enclosed area satisfies criteria A, B, C, and D
above, the lowest floor is the floor of the next highest enclosed area that
does not satisfy the criteria above.
   23.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   24.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means
those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   25.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of these flood plain management regulations.
   26.   “100-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a one
percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which, on the
average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 100 years.
   27.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis;
      B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   28.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing siding;
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work;
      C.   Basement sealing;
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes;
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
   29.   “Special flood hazard area” means the land within a community subject
to the 100-year flood. This land is identified as Zone A on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map.
   30.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   31.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, and other similar uses.
   32.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred.
   33.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure
either: (i) before the “start of construction” of the improvement; or (ii) if
the structure has been “substantially damaged” and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. The term does not, however, include any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing State or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe conditions for the existing use. The term also does not include any
alteration of an “historic structure,” provided the alteration will not
preclude the structure’s designation as an “historic structure.”
      B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the Flood Insurance Rate Map, shall be added to any proposed addition in
determining whether the total increase in original floor space would exceed 25
percent.
   34.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the flood plain management regulations.
   35.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with this chapter.
160.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies.  The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands and uses which have significant flood hazards. The Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) Panels 19181C0040G, 107G and 126G, City of Cumming,
dated November 16, 2018, which were prepared as part of the Warren County and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Study, shall be used to identify such flood
hazard areas shown thereon to be within the boundaries of the 100-year flood
shall be considered as having significant flood hazards. Where uncertainty
exists with respect to the precise location of the 100-year flood boundary, the
location shall be determined on the basis of the 100-year flood elevation at
the particular site in question. The Warren County and Incorporated Area Flood
Insurance Study is hereby adopted by reference and is made a part of this
chapter for the purpose of administering flood plain management regulations.
   2.   Establishment of Official Flood Plain Zoning Map.  The Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) Panels 19181C0040G, 107Gand 126G, prepared as part of the Flood
Insurance Study for Warren County and Incorporated Areas, City of Cumming,
dated November 16, 2018, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be the
Official Flood Plain Zoning Map. The flood profiles and all explanatory
material contained with the Flood Insurance Study are also declared to be a
part of this chapter.
160.04 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
    The boundaries of the zoning district areas shall be determined by scaling
distances on the Official Flood Plain Zoning Map. When an interpretation is
needed as to the exact location of the boundary, the Administrator shall make
the necessary interpretation. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide
appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision,
or determination made by the Administrator in the enforcement or administration
of this chapter.
160.05 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no structure shall be
located, extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations which apply to
uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
160.06 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall
prevail. Any ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to
the extent of the inconsistency only.
160.07 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by State statutes.
160.08 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The standards required by this chapter are considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes. This chapter does not imply that areas outside the
designated Flood Plain (Overlay) District areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the City
or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
160.09 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING (OVERLAY) DISTRICTS.
   The flood plain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are hereby
divided into the following districts:
   1.   Floodway District (FW)
   2.   Floodway Fringe District (FF)
   3.   General Flood Plain District (FP)
The boundaries are as shown on the Official Flood Plain Zoning Map. Within
these districts all uses not allowed as permitted uses or permissible as
conditional uses are prohibited unless a variance to the terms of this chapter
is granted after due consideration by the Board of Adjustment.
160.10 FLOODWAY (OVERLAY) DISTRICT - FW.
   1.   Permitted Uses. The following uses shall be permitted within the
Floodway District to the extent they are not prohibited by any other ordinance
(or underlying zoning district) and provided they do not include placement of
structures, factory-built homes, fill, or other obstruction, the storage of
material or equipment, excavation, or alteration of a watercourse.
      A.   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor
plant nurseries, horticulture, viticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod
farming, and wild crop harvesting.
      B.   Industrial-commercial uses such as loading areas, parking areas,
airport landing strips.
      C.   Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses, tennis
courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps,
swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish
hatcheries, shooting preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting
and fishing areas, hiking and horseback riding trails.
      D.   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas.
      E.   Such other open-space uses similar in nature to the above uses.
   2.   Conditional Uses. The following uses which involve structures
(temporary or permanent), fill, storage of materials or equipment, excavation
or alteration of a watercourse may be permitted only upon issuance of a
conditional use permit by the Board of Adjustment as provided for in Section
160.18. Such uses must also meet the applicable provisions of the Floodway
District Performance Standards.
      A.   Uses or structures accessory to open-space uses.
      B.   Circuses, carnivals, and similar transient amusement enterprises.
      C.   Drive-in theaters, new and used car lots, roadside stands, signs,
and billboards.
      D.   Extraction of sands, gravel, and other materials.
      E.   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, and wharves.
      F.   Utility transmission lines and underground pipelines.
      G.   Other uses similar in nature to uses described in subsection 1 and
in this subsection which are consistent with the provisions of subsection 3 and
the general spirit and purpose of this chapter.
   3.   Performance Standards. All Floodway District uses allowed as a
permitted or conditional use shall meet the following standards:
      A.   No use shall be permitted in the Floodway District that would result
in any increase in the 100-year flood level. Consideration of the effects of
any development on flood levels shall be based upon the assumption that an
equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly situated lands.
      B.   All uses within the Floodway District shall:
         (1)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
         (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      C.   No use shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the channel or
floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch or any other
facility or system.
      D.   Structures, buildings and sanitary and utility systems, if
permitted, shall meet the applicable performance standards of the Floodway
Fringe District and shall be constructed or aligned to present the minimum
possible resistance to flood flows.
      E.   Buildings, if permitted, shall have a low flood damage potential and
shall not be for human habitation.
      F.   Storage of equipment or materials that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited. Storage
of other material may be allowed if readily removable from the Floodway
District within the time available after flood warning.
      G.   Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel changes and
modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within
the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations
must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
      H.   Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to have some
beneficial purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount necessary.
      I.   Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed
and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to channel
degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.
160.11 FLOODWAY FRINGE (OVERLAY) DISTRICT - FF.
    All uses within the Floodway Fringe District shall be permitted to the
extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or underlying
zoning district) and provided they meet applicable performance standards of the
Floodway Fringe District. All uses must be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage and shall meet the following applicable performance standards.
   1.   All Structures. All structures shall:
      A.   Be adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure.
      B.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage.
      C.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   2.   Residential Buildings. All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the 100-year flood level. Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one foot above the
100-year flood level and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the
limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such
as piers) may be allowed, subject to favorable consideration by the Board of
Adjustment, where existing topography, street grades, or other factors preclude
elevating by fill. In such cases, the methods used must be adequate to support
the structure as well as withstand the various forces and hazards associated
with flooding. All new residential structures shall be provided with a means of
access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the 100-year flood.
   3.   Nonresidential Buildings. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential buildings shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood level, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be flood-proofed to such a level. When
flood proofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State of
Iowa shall certify that the flood proofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the 100-year flood; and that the structure, below
the 100-year flood level, is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum) to which any
structures are flood-proofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
   4.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
      A.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access and
low damage potential storage.
      B.   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
      C.   New and substantially improved structures must be constructed with
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   5.   Factory-Built Homes.
      A.   All factory-built homes, including those placed in existing factory-
built home parks or subdivisions, shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor of the structure is a minimum of one foot above the
100-year flood level.
      B.   All factory-built homes, including those placed in existing factory-
built home parks or subdivisions, shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   6.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
      A.   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
      B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system as well as
the discharge of effluent into floodwaters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the 100- year flood elevation.
      C.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system. Water supply
treatment facilities (other than on- site systems) shall be provided with a
level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the 100-year flood
elevation.
      D.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
   7.   Flammable or Explosive Materials. Storage of equipment and materials
that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood
level. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or: (i)
not subject to major flood damage and anchored to prevent movement due to
floodwaters; or (ii) readily removable from the area within the time available
after flood warning.
   8.   Levees and Floodwalls. Flood control structural works such as levees,
floodwalls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from a 100-year flood
with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for adequate
interior drainage. In addition, structural flood control works shall be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
   9.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must be
designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations must be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
   10.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the 100-year flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50
lots (whichever is less) shall include 100-year flood elevation data for those
areas located within the Flood Plain (Overlay) District.
   11.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
      A.   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are incidental
to a residential use are exempt from the 100-year flood elevation requirements
where the following criteria are satisfied:
         (1)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. The
structure shall be used solely for low flood damage potential purpose such as
vehicle parking and limited storage.
         (2)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 sq. ft. in size. Those portions of the
structure located less than 1-foot above the 100-year flood elevation must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials.
         (3)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         (4)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement which may result in damage to other structures.
         (5)   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or flood-proofed to at least one foot above
the 100-year flood level.
         (6)   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Section
160.11(4)A of the is Chapter.
      B.   Exemption from the 100-year flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
   12.   Recreational Vehicles.
      A.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of Section
160.11(5) of this chapter regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built
homes when the following criteria are satisfied.
         (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days, and
         (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      A.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
Section
160.11(5) of this chapter regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built
homes.
   13.   Pipelines. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried in the
stream bed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture
due to channel degradation and meandering.
160.12 GENERAL FLOOD PLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT - FP.
   1.   Permitted Uses. The following uses shall be permitted within the
General Flood Plain District to the extent they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they do not include
placement of structures, factory-built homes, fill, or other obstructions; the
storage of materials or equipment; excavation, or alteration of a watercourse.
      A.   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor
plant nurseries, horticulture, viticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod
farming, and wild crop harvesting.
      B.   Industrial-commercial uses such as loading areas, parking areas, and
airport landing strips.
      C.   Private and public recreation uses such as golf courses, tennis
courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps,
swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish
hatcheries, shooting preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting
and fishing areas, hiking and horseback riding trails.
      D.   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas.
   2.   Conditional Uses. Any use which involves placement of structures,
factory- built homes, fill, or other obstructions; the storage of materials or
equipment; excavation or alteration of a watercourse may be allowed only upon
issuance of a conditional use permit by the Board of Adjustment as provided for
in Section
160.18. All such uses shall be reviewed by the Department of Natural Resources
to determine: (i) whether the land involved is either wholly or partly within
the floodway or floodway fringe; and (ii) the 100-year flood level. The
applicant shall be responsible for providing the Department of Natural
Resources with sufficient technical information to make the determination.
   3.   Performance Standards.
      A.   All conditional uses, or portions thereof, to be located in the
floodway as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the
applicable provisions and standards of the Floodway (Overlay) District (Section
160.10).
      B.   All conditional uses, or portions thereof, to be located in the
floodway fringe as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet
the applicable standards of the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District (Section
160.11).
160.13 ADMINISTRATION.
    The Zoning Administrator shall administer and enforce this chapter and will
herein be referred to as the Administrator. The duties and responsibilities of
the Administrator include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
   1.   Review all flood plain development permit applications to assure that
the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
   2.   Review all flood plain development permit applications to assure that
all necessary permits have been obtained from Federal, State, or local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for flood plain construction.
   3.   Record and maintain a record of: (i) the elevation (in relation to
North American Vertical Datum) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
new or substantially improved structures; or (ii) the elevation to which new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed.
   4.   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of Natural
Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
   5.   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, and such other transactions and
correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
   6.   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
   7.   Notify the Federal Insurance Administration of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
   8.   Review subdivision proposals to insure such proposals are consistent
with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Council of potential conflicts.
160.14 FLOOD PLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.  
   A flood plain development permit issued by the Administrator shall be
secured prior to any flood plain development (any manmade change to improved or
unimproved real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other
structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling
operations) including the placement of factory-built homes.
160.15 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
    Application for a flood plain development permit shall be made on forms
furnished by the Administrator and shall include the following information.
   1.   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
   2.   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done (i.e.,
lot, block, tract, street address or similar description) that will readily
identify and locate the work to be done.
   3.   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
   4.   Elevation of the 100-year flood.
   5.   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum) of the lowest
floor (including basement) of buildings or of the level to which a building is
to be flood-proofed.
   6.   For buildings being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the building prior to the improvements.
   7.   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably necessary
(e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
160.16 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATION.
    The Administrator shall, within a reasonable time, make a determination as
to whether the proposed flood plain development meets the applicable standards
of this chapter and shall approve or disapprove the application. For
disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed, in writing, of the specific
reasons therefor. The Administrator shall not issue permits for variances
except as directed by the Board of Adjustment.
160.17 CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATION AND PLANS.
   Flood plain development permits issued on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished fill,
building floor elevations, flood-proofing, or other flood protection measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.
160.18 CONDITIONAL USES, APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   1.   Appointment and Duties of the Board of Adjustment. A Board of
Adjustment is hereby established, which shall hear and decide: (i) applications
for conditional uses upon which the Board is authorized to pass under this
chapter; (ii) appeals; and (iii) requests for variances to the provisions of
this chapter; and shall take any other action which is required of the Board.
   2.   Conditional Uses. Requests for conditional uses shall be submitted to
the Administrator, who shall forward such to the Board of Adjustment for
consideration. Such requests shall include information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary by the
Board of Adjustment.
   3.   Appeals. Where it is alleged there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of this chapter, the aggrieved party may appeal such action.
The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board of Adjustment and with the
official from whom the appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason
for the appeal. The official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to
the Board of Adjustment all the documents constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from was taken.
   4.   Variances. The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon request in
specific cases such variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be
contrary to the public interest, where owing to special conditions a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary
hardship. Variances granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      A.   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
      B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the 100-year flood would result. Consideration
of the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      D.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for buildings than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that: (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of insurance
coverage; and (ii) such construction increases risks to life and property.
      E.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   5.   Hearings and Decisions of the Board of Adjustment.
      A.   Hearings. Upon the filing with the Board of Adjustment of an appeal,
an application for a conditional use or a request for a variance, the Board
shall hold a public hearing. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing and give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to parties in
interest. At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney and present written or oral evidence. The Board may require the
appellant or applicant to provide such information as is reasonably deemed
necessary and may request the technical assistance and/or evaluation of a
professional engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources.
      B.   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on an appeal,
conditional use, or variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an
appeal, the Board may, so long as such action is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm wholly or in part, or modify the
order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall make
its decision, in writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons
for its decision. In granting a conditional use or variance, the Board shall
consider such factors as contained in this section and all other relevant
sections of this chapter and may prescribe such conditions as contained in
Section
160.20.
160.19 FACTORS UPON WHICH THE DECISION TO GRANT VARIANCES IS BASED.
   In passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
   1.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
   2.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or downstream
to the injury of others.
   3.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
   4.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   5.   The importance of the service provided by the proposed facility to the
City.
   6.   The requirements of the facility for a flood plain location.
   7.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding for
the proposed use.
   8.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
   9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for the area.
   10.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
   11.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwater expected at the site.
   12.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
   13.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this chapter.
160.20 CONDITIONS ATTACHED TO VARIANCES.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed above, the Board of Adjustment may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purpose of this chapter. Such conditions may include, but not
necessarily be limited to:
   1.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
   2.   Limitation on periods of use and operation.
   3.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions.
   4.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes, levees,
and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the Department of
Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative to achieving
the purpose of this chapter.
   5.   Flood proofing measures designed consistent with the flood protection
elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, durations, rate of rise,
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated with the
regulatory flood. The Board of Adjustment shall require that the applicant
submit a plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that
the flood proofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
160.21 APPEALS TO THE COURT.
    Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision of
the Board of Adjustment may present to a court of record a petition, duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part,
specifying the grounds of illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the
court within thirty days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board.
160.22 NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      A.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
      C.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   2.   Except as provided in subsection B above, any use which has been
permitted as a conditional use or variance shall be considered a conforming
use.
160.23 AMENDMENTS.  
   The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to
time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01 Title                            165.26 Home Occupations
165.02 Purpose                          165.27 Sign Regulations
165.03 Policy                           165.28 Nonconforming Uses of Land and
                                        Structures
165.04 Interpretation of Provisions     165.29 Landscaping and Open Space
                                        Requirements
165.05 Definitions                      165.30 Administration and Enforcement
165.06 Establishment of Districts       165.31 Appeals from Decision of
                                        Administrative Officer
165.07 Adoption of Official Zoning Map  165.32 Separate Offenses May Be Charged
165.08 Identification of Official       165.33 Other Remedies
Zoning Map
165.09 Changes in Official Zoning Map   165.34 Construction Compliance
                                        Certificate
165.10 Interpretation of District       165.35 Occupancy Compliance Certificate
Boundaries
165.11 Schedules of District            165.36 Application for Compliance
Regulations                             Certificates
165.12 A-1 Agricultural District        165.37 Fees
Regulations
165.13 A-2 Annexation District          165.38 Board of Adjustment Created
Regulations
165.14 R-1 Single-Family Residential    165.39 Proceedings of the Board of
District Regulations                    Adjustment
165.15 R-2 Two-Family Residential       165.40 Hearings, Appeals, Notice
District Regulations
165.16 R-3 Medium Density Multiple-     165.41 Stay of Proceedings
Family Residential District Regulations
165.17 RE-1 Single-Family Rural Estates 165.42 Board of Adjustment; Powers and
District Regulations                    Duties
165.18 C-1 Highway Commercial District  165.43 Decisions of the Board of
Regulations                             Adjustment
165.19 C-2 Central Business District    165.44 Appeals From the Board of
Regulations                             Adjustment
165.20 C-3 Community Commercial         165.45 Changes and Amendments
District Regulations
165.21 C-4 Professional Commerce        165.46 Application for Change of Zoning
Business District Regulations           District Boundaries
165.22 I-1 General Industrial District  165.47 Off-Street Parking and Loading
Regulations
165.23 PUD Planned Unit Development     165.48 Site Plan Requirements
District Regulations
165.24 Supplemental District            165.49   Site Plan Information
Regulations
165.25 Application of District           
Regulations
 
165.01 TITLE.
    This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Zoning
Ordinance of the City of Cumming, Iowa,” and may be referred to herein as “this
ordinance,” adopted pursuant to Chapter 414, Code of Iowa.
165.02 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety,
morals, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare; to conserve and
protect the value of property throughout the City and to encourage the most
appropriate use of land; to lessen congestion in the streets; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools,
parks and other public requirements.
165.03 POLICY.
    It is hereby declared by the Council that the regulations contained herein
are necessary in order to prevent and to lessen congestion in the streets and
highways; to secure safety from fire, flood, panic and other dangers; to
protect the public health and general welfare; to provide adequate light and
air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of
population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewage, schools, parks, and other public requirements; to conserve the value of
buildings and encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the City,
all in accordance with a Comprehensive Plan.
165.04 INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
    In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion and protection
of the public health, safety, morals and general welfare. Wherever the
requirements of this chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other
lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions or
covenants, the most restrictive, or that imposing the higher standards, shall
govern.
165.05 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this Zoning Ordinance, certain terms and words are
hereby defined, and the words “used or occupied” include the words “intended,
designed, or arranged to be used or occupied.”
   1.   “Access” means the place, means, or way by which pedestrians or
vehicles shall have ingress and egress to a property or parking area.
   2.   “Accessory use or structure” means a use or structure on the same lot
with the principal use or structure, and serving a purpose customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal use or structure. An accessory use
shall not encompass more floor area or use a greater part of the lot than the
principal permitted uses.
   3.   “Addition” means an extension or increase in floor area or height of a
building or structure.
   4.   “Agriculture” or “agricultural use” means the use of land, buildings,
structures, or portions thereof, principally for the production of, and as an
accessory use for, the treatment and storage of plants, animals, or
horticultural products, all for intended profit. Agriculture includes the
cultivation of land for the production of crops, eggs, milk, vegetables, fruit,
or other horticulture crops, as well as breeding, raising, feeding, pasturing,
and housing of horses, sheep, beef and dairy cattle, swine, other livestock,
and honey bees, with the intention of selling such animals or products
therefrom for a profit in the marketplace. Agriculture does not include any
auction sale yards, recreational facilities, commercially operated stockyards
or feedlots, and commercial grain storage or drying facilities.
   5.   “Apartment” means a room or suite of rooms used as the dwelling of a
family, including bath and culinary accommodations, located in a building in
which there are three or more such rooms or suites.
   6.   “Alterations, structural” means any change in the supporting members of
a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   7.   “Alley” means a private or public way, other than a street, 20 feet or
less in right-of-way width, affording a secondary means of access to abutting
property.
   8.   “Amendment” means a change in wording, context or substance of this
Zoning Ordinance, or a change in the zoning or district boundaries of the
official zoning map, which is a part of this Zoning Ordinance.
   9.   “Antenna” means any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs, or
similar devices used for the transmission or reception of electromagnetic waves
external to or attached to the exterior of any building.
   10.   “Assisted living residential facility” means a building consisting of
individual dwelling units where meals and assistance for daily living
activities are provided to the residents, who are primarily elderly persons.
Such facility must be licensed as a residential care facility, intermediate
care facility or skilled nursing facility under Chapter 135C, Code of Iowa.
   11.   “Automotive sales and storage lot” means an open off-street area where
two or more operable motor vehicles are stored or offered or displayed for sale
or advertising purposes.
   12.   “Awning” means any structure made of cloth or other non-rigid material
with a metal or other rigid material for a frame and attached to a building and
projecting outward from the building. (See also “canopy.”)
   13.   “Balcony” means a platform, unenclosed except by a railing, but which
could be covered by a roof that cantilevers from the outer wall of a building
above ground level without support other than the building.
   14.   “Bar” means any establishment devoted primarily to the selling,
serving or dispensing and drinking of malt, vinous, or other alcoholic
beverage, or any place where any sign is exhibited or displayed indicating that
alcoholic beverages are obtainable within or thereon, and where such beverages
are consumed on the premises, and may also be referred to as “cocktail lounge,”
“tavern,” or “saloon.”)
   15.   “Bed and breakfast inn” means an owner-occupied dwelling unit that
contains no more than five guest rooms where lodging, with or without meals, is
provided for compensation.
   16.   “Block” is deemed to be all that property frontage along one public
thoroughfare lying between the two nearest intersecting or intercepting
streets, railroad right- of-way, waterway, golf course, campus, park or other
similar space.
   17.   “Buffer” means a landscaped area, wall, or other structure intended to
separate or partially obstruct the view between two adjacent zoning districts,
land uses or properties from one another. (Also see “screening.”)
   18.   “Board” means the Board of Adjustment of the City.
   19.   “Boarding house” means a building other than a hotel where, for
compensation and by arrangement, meals or lodging and meals are provided for
three or more persons.
   20.   “Building” (structure) means anything constructed, erected or built,
the use of which requires location on the ground and designed for the support,
enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of
any kind, including (but without limiting the generality of the foregoing)
installations such as signs, billboards, radio towers, and other facilities not
designed for storage of property or occupancy by persons.
   21.   “Building, height of” means the vertical distance from the grade to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard
roof, or to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and
gambrel roofs.
   22.   “Campground” means an area or tract of land on which accommodations
for temporary occupancy are located or may be placed, including cabins, tents,
and major recreational equipment, and which is primarily used for recreational
purposes and retains an open air or natural character.
   23.   “Canopy” means a permanent roofed structure, including marquees and
awnings, attached to and supported by a building and projecting over private
property, or over public property.
   24.   “Car wash” means an area of land and/or a structure with machine- or
hand- operated facilities used principally for the cleaning, washing,
polishing, or waxing of motor vehicles.
   25.   “Carport” means a roofed structure providing space for the parking of
motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than two sides. For the purpose of this
chapter, a carport attached to a principal building shall be considered as part
of the principal building and subject to all yard requirements herein.
   26.   “Cellar” means a story having more than one-half of its height below
grade. A cellar is not included in computing the number of stories for the
purpose of height measurement.
   27.   “Centerline, public thoroughfare” means the line running parallel with
the thoroughfare right-of-way boundaries and which is half the distance between
the extreme edges of the official right-of-way width.
   28.   “Certificate of occupancy” means a document issued by the City to
permit the use of a building which has been determined to have fulfilled City
Zoning and building code requirements to permit occupancy.
   29.   “Channel” means a natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible
extent, with a definite bed and definite banks to confine and to conduct
continuously or periodically flowing water.
   30.   “Child” means a person under 18 years of age.
   31.   “Child care center” means a facility providing child day care for
seven or more children at one time, except when the facility is registered as a
group care facility. (Also see “day care home.”)
   32.   “Child day care” includes the care, supervision, or guidance of a
child by a person other than the parent, guardian, relative, or custodian for
periods of two hours or more, and less than 24 hours per day per child, on a
regular basis, in a place other than the child’s home, but does not have:
      A.   An institutional program administered by a public or non-public
school system approved by the Iowa State Department of Public Instruction or
the Iowa State Board of Regents.
      B.   A religious-related instructional program of not more than one day
per week.
      C.   Short-term classes held between school terms.
      D.   A program administered by a political subdivision of the State which
is primarily for recreational or social purposes, and is limited to children
who are five years of age or older and attending school.
(See Chapter 237A of the Code of Iowa.)
   33.   “Church or place of religious worship” means an institution that
people regularly attend to participate in or hold religious services, meetings,
and other activities. The term church shall not carry a secular connotation and
shall include buildings in which the religious services of any denomination are
held.
   34.   “Clinic, medical or dental” means a building or buildings in which
physicians, dentists, or allied professional assistants are associated for the
purpose of carrying on their professions.
   35.   “Club” means an organization of persons for special purposes or for
the promulgation of sports, arts, literature, politics, fitness, or the like
but not operated for profit, excluding churches, or other houses of worship.
   36.   “Commercial use” means the barter, exchange, sale, service or trade of
goods, materials, or services, either tangible or intangible for financial,
material or monetary gain.
   37.   “Commercial feedlot” means the feeding or raising of livestock,
poultry, or other animals in confined feedlots, dry lots, pens, cages, or
buildings as a commercial enterprise.
   38.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of Cumming.
   39.   “Complex” means a planned, coordinated development of a tract of land
with two or more separate buildings. Such development is planned, designed, and
constructed on an integrated and coordinated basis with special attention given
to the master planning of on- site vehicular circulation, parking, utility
needs, building design and orientation, and open space.
   40.   “Comprehensive Plan” means the Comprehensive Plan for the City, which
sets forth the City’s long range plans for land use, transportation, municipal
utilities, City expansion, management and development policies to guide the
City’s growth and from which the City’s zoning regulations shall be based.
   41.   “Condominium” means an estate in real property as regulated by Chapter
499B of the Code of Iowa, consisting of an undivided interest in common with
other purchasers in a portion of a parcel of real property, together with a
separate interest in space in a building, such as an apartment. A condominium
may include, in addition, a separate interest in other portions of such real
property.
   42.   “Conversion” means any change of one principal use to another
principal use.
   43.   “Cul-de-sac” means a local street, one end of which is closed and
consists of a circular turnaround.
   44.   “Day care home” means a private residence where care, protection, and
supervision are provided, for a fee, at least twice a week to fewer than seven
children at one time.
   45.   “Dead-end street” means a street with one end closed, and which has
only one location for entry and exit.
   46.   “Development” means any subdivision of land or man-made change to
improved or unimproved real estate, including (but not limited to) the
construction of buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   47.   “Driveway” means a privately owned roadway giving access from a public
street to a building plat or abutting property.
   48.   “Duplex” (see “dwelling, two-family.”)
   49.    “Dwelling” means any building or portion thereof which is designed
for and used exclusively for residential purposes.
   50.   “Dwelling, single-family” means a building designed for or occupied by
one family.
   51.   “Dwelling, two-family” means a building designed for or occupied
exclusively by two families.
   52.   “Dwelling, multiple” means a building designed for or occupied
exclusively by more than two families.
   53.   “Dwelling unit” means one room, or rooms connected together,
constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner
occupancy or rental or lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis, and
physically separated from any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the
same structure, and containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   54.   “Family” means one or more persons occupying a premises and living as
a single housekeeping unit, whether or not related to each other by birth,
marriage, or adoption, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
house, lodging house, or hotel, as herein defined.
   55.   “Farm” means the land area and associated buildings maintained and
operated by one owner or renter and used for agriculture. The term farming
includes the use of such areas for one or more agricultural uses with the
necessary accessory uses for treating or storing of produce, provided, however,
that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the
normal farming activities and such accessory uses do not include commercial
feeding of animals or poultry in confined lots or buildings.
   56.   “Farmstead” means a grouping of buildings within a farm utilized for
the storage and housing of equipment, agricultural products and livestock, and
associated residence of the farm operator.
   57.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   58.   “Floor” means the lower horizontal surface of a hollow structure,
story or room, or the horizontal structure which separates stories in a
building.
   59.   “Floor area” means the total area of all floors of a building or
portion thereof measured to the outside surface of exterior walls or the
centerline of walls to attached buildings or uses. It does not include garages,
porches, balconies and other appurtenances. Space in the basement or cellar and
all other space shall be included as floor area if habitable and used for a
principal or accessory use permitted in the zone in which the building is
located.
   60.   “Frontage” means all the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the
street, or if the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on
one side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   61.   “Funeral home” means a building or part thereof used for human funeral
services. Such building may contain space and facilities for: (i) embalming and
the performance of other services used in preparation of the dead for burial;
(ii) the performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures; (iii) the
storage of caskets, urns, and other related funeral supplies; (iv) the storage
of funeral vehicles; and (v) facilities for cremation. Where a funeral home is
permitted, a funeral chapel shall also be permitted.
   62.   “Garage, private” means an accessory building designed or used for the
storage of motor vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building to
which it is accessory. For single-family dwellings, a private garage may be
used for the storage of not more than three motor vehicles, one of which may be
a commercial vehicle of not more than two-ton capacity. For two- and multi-
family dwellings, the accessory garage shall contain no more than two and one-
half parking spaces per dwelling unit.
   63.   “Garage, public” means a building or portion thereof, other than a
private or storage garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing,
repairing, hiring, selling, or storing motor-driven vehicles.
   64.   “Gas or service station” means any building or premises used for the
retail sale of liquefied petroleum products for the propulsion of motor
vehicles, and including such products as kerosene, fuel oil, gasoline, diesel
fuel, packaged naphtha, lubricants, tires, batteries, antifreeze, motor vehicle
accessories, and other items customarily associated with the sale of such
products. The rendering of accessory services is permitted including automatic
car wash for one vehicle at a time, and making of repairs to motor vehicles
except those of a major type. Repairs of a major type are defined to be spray
painting; body, fender, differential, axle, spring, and frame repairs; major
overhauling of engines requiring the removal of engine cylinder head or
crankcase pan; repairs to radiators requiring the removal thereof; or complete
recapping or retreading of tires.
   65.   “Grade” means the average level of the finished surface of the ground
adjacent to the exterior walls of the building, except when any wall
approximately parallels and is not more than five feet from a street line, then
the elevation of the street at the center of the wall adjoining the street is
the grade.
   66.   “Greenhouse” means a building or accessory structure constructed
chiefly of glass or other translucent material, which is devoted to the
protection or cultivation of flowers or other tender plants.
   67.   “Health club” means an establishment providing physical fitness
facilities and services to the public for a fee, including (but not limited to)
game courts, exercise equipment, exercise areas, running tracks, swimming
pools, physical fitness maintenance and weight control services and
instructors, locker rooms, saunas, and associated retail shop intended for
members of club only.
   68.   “Home occupation” means an accessory use of a dwelling unit for
gainful employment involving the manufacture, provision or sale of goods and/or
services. Home occupations may be permitted provided they are normally and
commonly incidental and secondary to the use of a dwelling as a residence.
   69.   “Homeowners or property owners association” means a formally
constituted nonprofit association or corporation made up of the property owners
and/or residents of a definitive area; who collectively may take permanent
responsibility for costs and upkeep of commonly owned or designated community
property.
   70.   “Hospital” means an institution licensed by State law providing health
services primarily for human in-patient medical or surgical care for the sick
or injured and including related facilities such as laboratories, out-patient
departments, training facilities, central services facilities, and staff
offices that are an integral part of the facilities.
   71.   “Hotel or motel” means a building containing guest rooms in which
lodging is provided and offered to the public on a temporary basis for
compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in contrast to a bed and
breakfast inn, boarding house, or rooming house.
   72.   “Impervious surface” means a surface that has been compacted or
covered with a layer of material so that it is highly resistant to infiltration
by water. It includes surfaces such as compacted sand, lots, and other similar
structures.
   73.   “Institution” means a building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or
a nonprofit establishment for public use.
   74.   “Junk yard means any area where waste, discarded or salvaged materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, baled or packed, disassembled, stored, abandoned
or handled, including the dismantling or wrecking of automobiles or other
vehicles or machinery, the maintenance of unlicensed automobiles or other
vehicles or machinery, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and places or
yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment; but not including areas where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building.
   75.   “Kennel” means an establishment where dogs are boarded for
compensation or where dogs are bred or raised for commercial purposes or sale.
   76.   “Livestock” means animals kept or raised for use or pleasure,
including cattle, horses, sheep, goats, swine, and similar hoofed animals.
   77.   “Loading space” means a space within the main building or on the same
lot providing for the standing, loading, or unloading of trucks, having minimum
dimensions of 12 by 35 feet and vertical clearance of at least 14 feet.
   78.   “Lot” means, for the purpose of this chapter, a parcel of land of at
least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage,
and area and to provide such yards and other open space as are herein required.
Such lot shall have a frontage on a public street unless it is part of a
townhouse complex or mobile home park, and may consist of: (i) a single lot of
record; (ii) a portion of a lot of record; (iii) a combination of complete lots
of record; of complete lots of record and portions of lots of record; or of
portions of lots of record; and (iv) a parcel of land described by metes and
bounds; provided that in no case of division or combination shall any residual
lot or parcel be created which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   79.   “Lot, corner” means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection.
   80.   “Lot, depth of” means the mean horizontal distance between the front
and rear lot lines.
   81.   “Lot, double frontage” means a lot having a frontage on two non-
intersecting streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   82.   “Lot, interior” means a lot other than a corner lot.
   83.   “Lot line” means a line dividing one lot from another lot or from a
street or alley.
      A.   Front Lot Line - the lot line which adjoins a public street right-
of-way.
      B.   Rear Lot Line - that boundary which is opposite and most distant
from the front lot line. In the case of a corner lot, either of the lot lines
opposite the front lot line may be selected as the rear lot line. In case of an
interior triangular or gore-shaped lot, it means a straight line 10 feet in
length which:
         (1)   Is parallel to the front lot line or its cord.
         (2)   Intersects the two other lot lines at points most distant from
the front lot line.
      C.   Side Lot Line - any lot line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
   84.   “Lot, reverse corner” means a corner lot, the side street line of
which is substantially a continuation of the front line of the first lot to its
rear.
   85.   “Lot of record” means a lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in
the Office of the County Recorder or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded. For purposes of this
chapter, an existing contract of purchase at the time of the effective date of
this Zoning Ordinance also constitutes a lot of record.
   86.   “Lot width” means the width of a lot measured at the building line and
at right angles to its depth.
   87.   “Manufactured home” means a factory built home which is used as a
single- family dwelling and is manufactured or constructed under the authority
of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403, Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards, and is to be used as a place for human habitation, but which is not
constructed with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved
other than for the purpose of moving it to a permanent site, and which does not
have permanently attached to its body or frame, any wheels or axles. A mobile
home is not a manufactured home unless it has been converted to real property
as provided by the Code of Iowa, and is taxed as a site-built dwelling. For the
purposes of these regulations, a manufactured home shall be considered the same
as any site-built single-family detached dwelling.
   88.   “Master plan” means a schematic plan for a unified, coordinated
development of a tract of contiguous land which is designed in an integrated
and coordinated basis showing streets, water lines and appurtenances, sanitary
sewers and appurtenances, storm water management facilities and appurtenances,
lot boundaries, building locations, parking and loading areas, access drives,
landscaping, existing and proposed grades, buffers, and other information as
required to properly depict and communicate the proposed utilization and
improvement of the property.
   89.   “Mini-warehouse” means a building or group of buildings, no more than
25 feet in height and not having any dimension greater than 250 feet per
building, containing varying sizes of individualized, compartmentalized, and
controlled stalls or lockers for the dead storage of customers’ goods or wares,
excluding junk, explosive, or flammable materials, and other noxious or
dangerous materials. No business activities other than rental of storage units
shall be conducted on the premises.
   90.   “Mobile home” means a factory built home without motive power and
built on a chassis for conveyance upon highways or public streets, or
waterways; so designed and so constructed as to permit occupancy thereof as a
place of human habitation for one or more persons. A mobile home shall not be
construed to be a travel trailer or other form of recreational vehicle. A
mobile home shall remain a mobile home, subject to all regulations applying
thereto, whether or not wheels, axles, hitch, or other appurtenances of
mobility are removed and regardless of the nature of the foundation provided,
if such mobile home has not been converted to property tax assessable real
estate in accordance with Chapter 135D.26 of the Code of Iowa. Nothing in this
Zoning Ordinance shall be construed as permitting a mobile home in other than
an approved mobile home park.
   91.   “Mobile home park” means any lot or portion of lot upon which one or
more mobile homes, modular homes, or trailers occupied for dwelling or sleeping
purposes are located regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such
accommodations.
   92.   “Modular home” means a factory-built home which is manufactured or
constructed to be used as a place for human habitation, but which is not
constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it to
be attached or towed behind a motor vehicle, and which does not have
permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles.
   93.   “Multiple use” or “mixed use” means the occupancy of a defined area of
land or a building by more than one type of use, i.e., single-family
residential, multi-family residential, commercial, office, or industrial.
   94.   “Night club” means any place of business located within any building
or establishment, established and operated for the purpose of supplying
entertainment or music and a dance floor and providing meals and/or
refreshments prepared for consumption on the premises.
   95.   “Nonconforming lot” means a lot which lawfully existed prior to the
adoption, revision, or amendment of this Zoning Ordinance, but which fails by
reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the new district
regulation in which it is located.
   96.   “Nonconforming structures” means a building or structure that exists
at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Ordinance which
is allowed to lawfully exist, but does not comply with the terms of this Zoning
Ordinance by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, setbacks,
architecture, or other characteristics of the structure or its location on the
lot.
   97.   “Nonconforming use” means a lawful use of land that does not comply
with the use regulations for its zoning district but which complied with
applicable regulations at the time the use was established.
   98.   “Nonprofit institution” means a nonprofit establishment maintained and
operated by a society, corporation, individual, foundation, or public agency
for the purpose of providing charitable, social, educational, or similar
services to the public, groups, or individuals. Cooperative nonprofit
associations, performing a service normally associated with retail sales or
trade such as cooperative groceries, granaries, equipment sales, etc., shall
not be considered nonprofit institutions under this chapter.
   99.   “Nursing or convalescent home” means a building or structure having
accommodations and where care is provided for invalid, infirm, aged,
convalescent, or physically disabled, or injured persons, not including mental
insanity, mental deficiency or deterioration, inebriation, or contagious cases.
   100.   “Open space” means an area that is intended to provide light and air,
and is designed for either environmental, scenic, or recreational purposes.
Open space may include, but is not limited to, lawns, decorative planting,
walkways, active and passive recreation areas, playgrounds, fountains, swimming
pools, wooded areas, and water courses. Open space shall not be deemed to
include buildings, driveways, parking lots, display areas for retail sales of
merchandise, loading areas, outdoor storage areas, or other surfaces designed
or intended for vehicular travel.
   101.   “Parking space”: means a surfaced area, enclosed in the main building
or in an accessory building or unenclosed, having an area of not less than 180
square feet exclusive of driveways, permanently reserved for the temporary
storage of one automobile and connected with a street or alley by a surfaced
driveway which affords satisfactory ingress for automobiles.
   102.   “Place” means an open unoccupied space or a public or private
thoroughfare other than a street or alley permanently reserved as the principal
means of access to abutting property.
   103.   “Place of business” means any vehicle, building, structure, yard,
area, lot, premises, or part thereof, or any other place in which or on which
one or more persons engage in a gainful occupation.
   104.   “Planned Unit Development” (PUD) means any development in which the
proposed land use, transportation elements, population densities, building
arrangement and types are set out in a unified, contiguous plan.
   105.   “Plant nursery” means any land used to raise trees, shrubs, flowers,
and other plants for transplanting.
   106.   “Plat of survey” means the graphical representation of a survey of
one or more parcels of land, including a complete and accurate description of
each parcel within the plat, prepared by a registered land surveyor.
   107.   “Porch, unenclosed” means a roofed projection which has no more than
50 percent of each outside wall area enclosed by a building or siding material
other than meshed screens.
   108.   “Post-secondary schools” means a public or non-public educational
institution such as colleges, universities, professional business training
schools, and technical training schools, established to provide curriculum,
academic instruction, or training to persons who have completed their high
school education.
   109.   “Premises” means any lot, plot, parcel or tract of land, building or
buildings, structure or structures, used publicly or privately as a place of
business, dwelling or meeting place.
   110.   “Principal building” means a building in which the principal use of
the lot on which the building is located is conducted.
   111.   “Principal use” means the primary use of land or structures as
distinguished from an accessory use.
   112.   “Public thoroughfare” means any right-of-way under the jurisdiction
and maintenance of the governmental agencies of the federal, State or municipal
government; which may be used by the public in general, and which may or may
not serve as a frontage street to the abutting property. (See “street.”)
   113.   “Public view” means visible to the general populace from public
streets, alleys, parks or other public property, adjoining privately-owned
properties, and on-premises parking lots and other facilities accessible to the
general populace, including patrons and visitors.
   114.   “Recreation vehicle” (RV) means a vehicle which is: (i) built on a
single chassis; (ii) 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection; (iii) designed to be self- propelled or permanently
towable by a light duty vehicle; and (iv) designed primarily not for use as a
permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping,
travel, or seasonal use.
   115.   “Recreational vehicle park” (RV park) means any parcel of land upon
which two or more recreational vehicle sites are located, established, or
maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as
temporary living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes.
   116.   “Residential” (residence) means any lot, plot, parcel, tract, area,
or place of land or any building used exclusively for family dwelling purposes
or intended to be used, including accessory uses specified herein.
   117.   “Re-subdivision” means any change in the shape or size of any lot,
tract or parcel of land previously platted for the purpose, whether immediate
or future, of sale, rent, lease, building development, or other use, or any
change in the shape or size of any lot, tract or parcel of land previously
approved for building purpose whether immediate or future and regardless
whether or not the same is vacant or improved in whole or in part, for sale,
rent, lease, building development or other use.
   118.   “Right-of-way” means a strip of land occupied or intended to be
occupied by a street, highway, walkway, drainage way, railroad, electric
transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer,
trail, or other public use.
   119.   “Road, private” means a right-of-way open to vehicular ingress and
egress established as a separate tract for the common use and benefit of
certain, adjacent properties. This definition shall not apply to individual
driveways.
   120.   “Rooming house” means a residential structure that provides lodging
with or without meals, is available for permanent occupancy only, and which
makes no provision for cooking in any of the rooms occupied by paying guests.
   121.   “School” means a facility that provides a curriculum of elementary
and secondary academic instruction, including kindergartens, elementary
schools, junior high schools, middle schools and high schools.
   122.   “School, business training” means a school which specializes in
business, commercial and industrial training courses and is operated for
commercial gain.
   123.   “Screening” (also see “buffer”) means the method by which a view of
one site from another adjacent site is shielded, concealed, or hidden.
Screening techniques include fences, walls, hedges, berms, or other features.
   124.   “Setback” means the required minimum horizontal distance permitted
between the building line and the related front, side, or rear property line.
   125.   “Shopping center” means a grouping of retail business and service
uses within a single master planned complex of one or more buildings with
common parking facilities, access and open space.
   126.   “Sign” - see Section
165.27.
   127.   “Site improvements” includes all improvements to a site plan in
addition to proposed buildings, and including (but not limited to) utilities,
storm water management, parking, loading areas, landscaping, buffers, and free
standing signs.
   128.   “Site plan” means a plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and
with complete dimensions, the boundaries of a site and the location of all
buildings, structures, uses, and principal site development features proposed
for a specific parcel of land. (See Section
165.48 for regulations.)
   129.   “Slope” means the change in ground elevation between two points.
   130.   “Special exception” means a use of land, water or building which is
allowable only after the issuance of a special exception permit by the Board of
Adjustment under conditions specified in this chapter.
   131.   “Stable, private” means an accessory building in which horses are
kept for private use and not for remuneration, hire or sale.
   132.   “Stable, public” means an accessory building in which horses are kept
for commercial use, including boarding, hire, instructions, and sale.
   133.   “Stable, riding club” means a building or structure used or intended
to be used, for the housing only of horses by a group of persons for non-
commercial purposes.
   134.   “Story” means that portion of a building included between the upper
surface of any floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that
the topmost story shall be that portion of a building included between the
upper surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the
finished floor level directly above a walkout basement is more than five feet
above grade such basement shall be considered a story.
   135.   “Story, half” means a partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel
roof, the wall plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not
more than three feet above the floor of such story, except that any partial
story used for residence purposes, other than for a janitor or caretaker or his
family, or by a family occupying the floor immediately below it, shall be
deemed a full story.
   136.   “Street” means a public or private thoroughfare with a right-of-way
not less than 20 feet and which is used, or intended to be used, for passage or
travel by motor vehicles.
   137.   “Street line” means a dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of
land and a contiguous street. (See “lot line, front.”)
   138.   “Structural alterations” means any replacement or changes in the type
of construction or in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing
walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, beyond ordinary repairs and
maintenance.
   139.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected with a fixed
location on the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the
ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, antenna, smoke
stacks, mobile homes, billboards, signs, poster panels, factories, sheds,
cabins, factory-built homes, overhead transmission lines, poles, satellite dish
antenna, storage tanks, towers, and other similar uses.
   140.   “Subdivision” means a division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
into two or more lots, building plots or sites, or other subdivisions of land
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, transfer for building
development, right-of-way dedication, or other use; provided, however, this
definition of a subdivision does not include divisions of land into aliquot
parts or more for agricultural purposes.
   141.   “Subdivision plat” means the graphical representation of the
subdivision of land, prepared by a registered land surveyor, having a number or
letter designation for each lot within the plat and a succinct name or title
that is unique for the county and city where the land is located.
   142.   “Swimming pool” means all outdoor artificial or semi-artificial
receptacles, of either temporary or permanent construction, whether above or
below ground, capable of containing water of a depth of 18 inches or more,
whether used for swimming or aesthetic purposes, but excludes manmade lakes or
ponds created through the collection of storm water or drainage runoff.
   143.   “Temporary use” means a use intended for a limited duration which may
or may not be permitted in the zoning district in which it is proposed to be
located, and which is permitted subject to the approval of a temporary use
permit by the City Council.
   144.   “Tent” means any structure or enclosure, the roof or one-half or more
of the sides of which are of silk, cotton, canvas, or any light material,
either attached to a building or structure, or unattached.
   145.   “Townhouse” means a dwelling unit which is attached horizontally, and
not vertically to one or more other dwelling units, wherein the land or lot
beneath each dwelling is individually owned by the owner of the dwelling. A
townhouse subdivision shall have common elements which are specified in or
determined under the rules and regulations set forth by recorded covenants.
Covenants for a townhouse subdivision shall establish the guidelines for
maintenance of common elements and permit free movement through common areas by
members of the homeowners association (council of co-owners) to assure access
to the structural exterior of each townhouse unit by the individual unit owner.
   146.   “Tract” means an aliquot part of a section, a lot within an official
plat, or a government lot.
   147.   “Trail” means a pedestrian walk way or bikeway designated with a
paved surfaced pathway for travel by means other than by motorized vehicles.
   148.   “Transfer of development rights” means the conveyance of development
rights to another parcel of land by legal instrument authorized by local law.
   149.   “Travel trailer” means a recreational vehicle, with or without motive
power; designed as a temporary habitation, not exceeding eight feet in width
and 40 feet in length, exclusive of separate towing unit. Such vehicles are
used for travel or recreational purposes and not used for permanent habitation.
   150.   “Trailer camp” or “tourist camp” means an area providing spaces for
two or more travel trailers, camping trailers, or tent sites for temporary
occupancy, with necessary incidental services, sanitation, and recreation
facilities to serve the traveling public.
   151.   “Truck stop” means a service station which is designed principally
for the servicing and temporary parking of trucks.
   152.   “Truck terminal” means land and buildings used as a relay station for
the transfer of a load from one vehicle to another or one party to another. The
terminal cannot be used for permanent or long-term storage. The terminal
facility may include storage areas for trucks, and buildings or areas for the
repair of trucks associated with the terminal.
   153.   “Variance” means a modification of the specific regulations of this
Zoning Ordinance granted by resolution of the Board of Adjustment in accordance
with the terms of this Zoning Ordinance for the purpose of assuring that no
property, because of special circumstances and hardships applicable to it,
shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same vicinity and zoning district.
   154.   “Warehouse” means a building used primarily for the storage of goods
and materials.
   155.   “Yard” means an open space on the same lot with a building or
structure unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from 30
inches above the general ground level of the graded lot upward, provided
however that fences, walls, signs, poles, post, and other customary yard
accessories, ornaments, and furniture more than 30 inches in height may be
permitted in any yard subject to requirements limiting obstruction of
visibility and other provisions of this ordinance. In measuring a yard for the
purpose of determining the depth of a yard, the minimum setbacks shall be used.
   156.   “Yard, front” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot
and measured between the front lot line and the building line or any projection
thereof, other than the projection of the usual uncovered steps, patios or
decks.
   157.   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot
and measured between the rear lot line and the building or any projections
other than steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches.
   158.   “Yard, side” means a yard extending from the front yard to the rear
yard and measured between the side lot lines and the building line.
   159.   “Zero lot line” means the location of a building on a lot in such a
manner that one or more of the building’s sides rest directly on a lot line.
   160.   “Zone” means any one of the classes of districts established by this
Zoning Ordinance which is designated by area upon the official zoning map of
the City.
   161.   “Zoning Administrator” means the administrative officer designated or
appointed by the City to administer and enforce the regulations contained in
this chapter.
   162.   “Zoning certificate” means written statement issued by the Zoning
Administrator authorizing buildings, structures, or uses consistent with the
terms of this Zoning Ordinance and for the purpose of carrying out and
enforcing the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.
165.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
    The City is divided into districts, designated as follows:
      A-1   Agricultural District
      A-2   Annexation District
      R-1   Single-Family Residential District
      R-2   Two-Family Residential District
      R-3   Multi-Family Residential District
      RE-1   Single-Family Rural Estates District
      C-1   Highway Commercial District
      C-2   Central Business District
      C-3   Community Commercial District
      C-4   Professional Commerce Business District
      I-1   General Industrial District
      PUD   Planned Unit Developments District
   The locations and boundaries of these districts are shown on the official
zoning map.
165.07 ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
    The official zoning map, along with the explanatory material thereon, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
165.08 IDENTIFICATION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
    The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor
attested by the City Clerk, under the following statement:
      This is to certify that this is the official zoning map referred to in
Section
165.07 of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Cumming, Iowa, as adopted
_________________.
   The official zoning map shall be on file in the office of the Clerk and
shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land,
buildings, and other structures in the City.
165.09 CHANGES IN OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
    No changes in the official zoning map shall be made except as may be
required by amendments to this Zoning Ordinance under Section
165.45. If required, such changes shall be promptly made and the ordinance
number, nature of change, and date of change shall be noted on the map,
approving such change in the official zoning map. Any unauthorized change of
any kind whatsoever in the official zoning map by any person shall constitute a
violation of this Zoning Ordinance. (See Editor’s Note at the end of this
chapter for ordinances amending the zoning Map.)
165.10 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
    Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules apply:
   1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines.
   3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following township lines or
section lines shall be construed as following such township lines or section
lines.
   4.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   5.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated
in subsections 1 through 4 above shall be so construed. Distances not
specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by the
scale of the map.
   6.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by subsections 1 through 5 of this section, the Board of Adjustment
shall interpret the district boundaries.
   7.   Where a district boundary divides a lot of record which was in single
ownership at the time of the effective date of the Zoning Ordinance, the Board
may permit, as a special exception or variance, the extension of the
regulations for either portion of the lot, not to exceed 30 feet beyond the
district boundary.
165.11 SCHEDULES OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
    The schedules in the following sections of this chapter are hereby adopted
and declared to be a part of this Zoning Ordinance:
   1.   Section
165.12 – A-1 Agricultural District
   2.   Section
165.13 – A-2 Annexation District
   3.   Section
165.14 – R-1 Single-Family Residential District
   4.   Section
165.15 – R-2 Two-Family Residential District
   5.   Section
165.16 – R-3 Multi-Family Residential District
   6.   Section
165.17 – RE-1 Single-Family Rural Estates District
   7.   Section
165.18 – C-1 Highway Commercial District
   8.   Section
165.19 – C-2 Central Business District
   9.   Section
165.20 – C-3 Community Commercial District
   10.   Section
165.21 – C-4 Professional Commerce Business District
   11.   Section
165.22 – I-1 General Industrial District
   12.   Section
165.23 – PUD Planned Unit Developments District
165.12 A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this section or elsewhere in this chapter,
which are applicable, shall apply in all A-1 Agricultural Zoning Districts. The
A-1 Zoning District is intended and designed to preserve existing agricultural
lands. This district is also intended for areas where public sanitary sewer
service is not planned.
   1.   Principal Permitted Uses and Structures. Following are the principal
uses and structures permitted in the A-1 Agricultural District:
      A.   Agricultural, horticulture, dairy farming, livestock farming,
poultry farming, general farming, and other agricultural activities excluding
commercial feedlots and confinements.
      B.   Single-family dwellings provided that no temporary buildings,
trailers, mobile homes, tents, portable, or potentially portable structures
shall be used for dwelling purposes.
      C.   Parks, playgrounds, or playfields.
      D.   Fairgrounds and campgrounds.
      E.   Cemetery, mausoleum, church, or other place of worship.
      F.   Public and parochial schools, elementary and secondary and other
educational institutions having established current curriculum the same as
ordinarily given in the public school system, but excluding boarding schools,
nursery schools and child care centers provided that all principal buildings
are set back a minimum of 75 feet from all property lines and the minimum lot
size be no less than 10 acres.
      G.   Public library.
      H.   Private non-commercial recreational areas and centers, including
country clubs, swimming pools, golf courses, and riding stables.
      I.   Forests, wildlife preserves, and wetlands.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses. Following are the accessory uses and
structures permitted in the A-1 Agricultural District:
      A.   Farm buildings incidental to agricultural uses.
      B.   Private garages.
      C.   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
      D.   Temporary roadside stand for the display and sale of agricultural
products produced on the property, with the condition that area for parking is
provided off the public street.
      E.   Private greenhouses not operated for commercial purposes.
      F.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses or structures of this district, not involving the
conduct of business on the premises, except home occupations, and located on
the same lot or a contiguous lot under the same ownership.
      G.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work,
provided that such buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the
construction work.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. The following use may be
permitted in the A-1 Agricultural District, subject to the approval of a
special exception permit by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with
subsections 165.42(2) and (3), after notice and public hearing.
      A.   Public utilities, but not including equipment storage or maintenance
yards and building or general administrative and sales offices, provided that
any substation or building shall meet the front and rear yard requirements for
dwellings and shall provide side yard of no less than 25 feet.
   4.   Maximum Height Regulations. The maximum height for structures in the A-
1 Agricultural District is two and one-half stories or 35 feet. The maximum
height for accessory structures in the A-1 Agricultural Districts is 45 feet.
   5.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
for permitted uses in the A-1 Agricultural District:
 
Use      Lot Area Lot Width Front Yard Side Yard Street Side Rear Yard Setback
                            Setback    Setback   Corner Lot
All uses 30 acres 660 feet  75 feet    50 feet   100 feet    75 feet
 
   6.   Special Requirements. No construction compliance certificate shall be
issued for a dwelling unit in the A-1 Agricultural District for any parcel of
land that is designated for commercial or industrial uses on the future land
use plan of the City.
   7.   Wastewater Treatment Requirements. The lot area shall be increased by
such amount as determined necessary by the County Health Officer to provide an
adequate absorption field for a septic tank installation.
   8.   Sign Regulations. See Section
165.27.
   9.   Green Space and Buffer Requirements. See Section
165.29.
   10.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Section
165.47.
   11.   Architectural Standards. See
Chapter 166.
   12.   Site Plan Requirements. See Section
165.48.
   13.   Special Exception Permits. See subsections
165.42(2) and (3).
165.13 A-2 ANNEXATION DISTRICT REGULATIONS.  
   The regulations set forth in this section or elsewhere in this chapter,
which are applicable, shall apply in all A-2 Annexation Zoning Districts. The
A-2 Annexation District is intended and designed to control the form and
direction of future development so that City regulations (Zoning Ordinance,
Building Code, etc.) could be used to ensure a beneficial effect for the City.
   1.   Principal Permitted Uses and Structures. Those uses of structures or
land listed in this section shall be permitted in the A-2 Annexation District.
      A.   Those uses of structures and land permitted in the Agricultural
District within Madison or Warren County, respectively, shall be permitted in
the A-2 District.
         (1)   Residences constructed for occupation by a person engaged in
farming or in a family farm operation.
         (2)   Nonconforming preexisting residences may be continued in
residential use.
         (3)   Nonconforming preexisting businesses may be continued in
commercial use.
      B.   Those uses of structures or land prior to annexation shall be
permitted to continue for as long as the property remains in the same family
ownership, undivided, and not rezoned by request of the property owner.
Eventually the property must become subject to the regulations and services
necessary to the health, welfare, safety, and convenience of the general
public. At that time the City may rezone such property whenever municipal
services become available.
      C.   Those uses of new structures or land after annexation may be
permitted if:
         (1)   The use is not inconsistent with the purposes set forth in this
section.
         (2)   The use does not seriously interfere with other operations
within the area.
         (3)   The use does not materially alter the stability of the overall
land use plan in the area.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses. Permitted accessory uses include uses of land
or structures customarily incidental and subordinate to one of the permitted
principal uses, unless otherwise excluded.
   3.   Sign Regulations. See Section
165.27.
   4.   Green Space and Buffer Requirements. See Section
165.29.
   5.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Section
165.47.
   6.   Architectural Standards. See
Chapter 166.
   7.   Site Plan Requirements. See Section
165.48.
   8.   Special Exception Permits. See subsections
165.42(2) and (3).
165.14 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this section or elsewhere in this chapter,
which are applicable, shall apply in all R- 1 Single-Family Residential Zoning
Districts, including the R-1 (80), R-1 (90), and R-1 (100) Zoning Districts.
The R-1 Zoning Districts are intended and designed to preserve single-family
residential neighborhoods, and to promote new single-family residential
neighborhoods with a desired diversity of single-family housing sizes and
costs.
   1.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the use of structures or land listed in
this subsection shall be permitted in the R-1 Zoning Districts of R-1 (80), R-
1 (90), and R-1 (100).
      A.   A single-family dwelling on each lot or building site. No temporary
buildings, trailers, mobile homes, tents, portable or potentially portable
structures shall be used for dwelling purposes.
      B.   Parks, playgrounds, golf courses, and recreation areas.
      C.   Agricultural uses, provided that no sense of odors or dust are
created; provided, however, no agricultural uses are permitted on platted lots
with water and/or sewer connections except gardens established for the primary
use of the property owner.
      D.   Community meeting or recreational building.
      E.   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues, and similar places of
worship and associated residence of clergy or ordained official of the
religious organization.
      F.   School buildings used for accredited educational purposes.
      G.   Swimming, and tennis clubs or country clubs, and similar public and
non-commercial privately owned uses.
      H.   Group quarters with more than four persons who are not related by
blood or marriage and do not constitute a family as defined by this chapter
shall not be permitted unless such use is permitted by over-riding State law,
and if such use has adequate parking and meets all other site development
requirements of this chapter.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses. The following uses may exist as part of or
accessory to the permitted use:
      A.   Normal accessory buildings and structures for a dwelling, religious
place of worship, and school similar to and including one private garage or
carport, swimming pools, one storage building, children's playhouse, radio and
television receiving antennas, barbecue pits, playground equipment, and tennis
courts. Accessory structures for nonresidential uses are subject to review by
the City for compliance with architectural standards. Whenever multiple
accessory structures for nonresidential uses are proposed with the principal
use, the accessory structures are subject to site plan review by the Planning
and Zoning Commission and City Council, which may include compliance with
architectural requirements for cumulative accessory floor area upon a
recommendation from the Commission.
      B.   Normal accessory buildings and structures for public recreation
areas such as refreshment stands, playground equipment, all-weather shelters,
tennis courts, and barbecue pits.
      C.   Normal accessory buildings and structures associated with the
keeping of domestic animals similar to and including cats, dogs, birds, and
tropical fish.
      D.   Private flower and vegetable gardening for non-commercial gain.
      E.   Private greenhouses and horticultural nurseries not exceeding 300
square feet for non- commercial gain.
      F.   Day care home.
      G.   The taking of boarders or the leasing of rooms by a resident family,
provided the total number of boarders and roomers does not exceed two per
dwelling unit.
      H.   Home occupations permitted and limited by Section
165.26 of this chapter.
      I.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction
work.
      J.   Temporary use of a structure within a new subdivision as a job
office and real estate office for the subject subdivision, which use shall
terminate upon completion or abandonment of the project.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Special exception uses and
structures are permitted in the R-1 Single-Family Residential District in
accordance with subsections 165.42(2) and (3), after notice and public hearing.
   4.   Maximum Height Regulations. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height,
and no accessory structure shall exceed 15 feet in height, unless a greater
height is permitted for a special exception.
   5.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
for single-family dwellings in each of the following R-1 Single-Family
Residential Districts and, other uses in any of the R-1 Districts:
 
                                             Side
Single-                                      Yard     Street  Sum of
Family    Intended          Lot      Front   Setback, Side,   Both     Rear
Dwellings Density  Lot Area Width    Yard    Least    Corner  Side     Yard
and Other                            Setback Width on Lot     Yard     Setback
Uses                                         Any One          Setbacks
                                             Side
          3.0      10,000
R-1(80)   units/   square   80 feet  35 feet 10 feet  25 feet 20 feet  35 feet
          acre     feet
          2.6      11,250
R-1(90)   units/   square   90 feet  35 feet 12 feet  25 feet 25 feet  35 feet
          acre     feet
          2.0      15,000
R-1(100)  units/   square   100 feet 40 feet 12 feet  25 feet 25 feet  40 feet
          acre     feet
Other              80,000
Uses      *        square   200 feet 50 feet 50 feet  *       100 feet 50 feet
                   feet
Schools   *        10 acres *        75 feet 50 feet  *       *        50 feet
 
   6.   Bulk Regulations for Accessory Structures. The cumulative total gross
floor area of all permitted detached accessory structures shall not exceed 10
percent of the lot area, and occupy more than 30 percent of the rear yard.
Accessory structures greater than 1,000 square feet shall be subject to the
approval of a special exception permit by the Board of Adjustment in accordance
with Section
165.42 after notice and public hearing. In no instance shall the accessory
structure exceed the principal structure in building area or gross floor
area.   
   7.   Sign Regulations. See Section
165.27.
   8.   Green Space and Buffer Requirements. See Section
165.29.
   9.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Section
165.47.
   10.   Architectural Standards. See
Chapter 166.
   11.   Site Plan Requirements. See Section
165.48.
   12.   Special Exception Permits. See subsections
165.42(2) and (3).
165.15 R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this section or elsewhere in this chapter which
are applicable, shall apply in the R-2, Two-Family Residential District. The R-
2 Zoning District is intended and designed to preserve certain medium density
residential areas with two-family dwellings, and permit additional areas to
develop with two-family dwellings.
   1.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the use of structures or land listed in
this section shall be permitted in the R-2 District.
      A.   Any use permitted in the R-1 Zoning District, provided such use
shall comply with the minimum requirements of the R-2 Zoning District.
      B.   Two-family dwellings.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses. The following uses may exist as part of, or
accessory to the principal permitted and special exceptions:
      A.   All accessory uses permitted in and as limited in the R-1 Zoning
Districts.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Special exception uses and
structures are permitted in the R-2 Two-Family Residential District in
accordance with subsections 165.42(2) and (3), after notice and public hearing.
   4.   Maximum Height Regulations. No principal building shall exceed 35 feet
in height, and no accessory structure shall exceed 15 feet in height, unless a
greater height is permitted for a special exception.
   5.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
for the R-2, Two-Family Residential District:
 
                                              Side Yard
Principal                          Front Yard Setback,    Sum of Both Rear Yard
Use        Lot Area      Lot Width Setback    Least Width Side Yard   Setback
                                              on Any One  Setbacks
                                              Side
Day Care   40,000 square 150 feet  35 feet    25 feet     50 feet     35 feet
Center     feet
Multiple-
Family     *             *         *          *           *           *
Townhouses
Other Uses 80,000 square 200 feet  35 feet    50 feet     100 feet    35 feet
           feet
*   Two-Family Townhouse - a townhouse, with two attached dwelling units,
wherein the owner of the dwelling unit owns the lot beneath the dwelling unit,
shall be permitted in the R-2 District provided the lot for one dwelling has a
minimum area of 6,250 square feet, minimum width of 50 feet and minimum side
yard setback of zero feet at the side lot line where the two dwellings are
attached. Public street frontage shall not be required for townhouse lots which
are part of a complex which does not require a public street as part of the
City’s transportation network and is master planned with a private common
roadway serving the townhouse lots and maintained by an association of
townhouse homeowners. A private, common roadway serving a complex of two-family
townhouse dwellings shall not be greater than 600 feet in length for a cul-de-
sac and 1,320 feet for a through street, which shall be intended to serve only
dwellings within the complex. Individual townhouse lots shall not have minimum
setback, lot width and area requirements, provided the tract of land
encompassing the townhouse lots and common areas has public street frontage; a
minimum width of 100 feet; a minimum area of 40,000 square feet; maximum
density of five dwelling units per acre, minimum separation of 15 feet between
residential buildings; minimum separation of 25 feet between a residential
building and common private roadways; and a minimum building setback of 30 feet
from all boundaries of the complex, including public streets. The development
of a townhouse complex shall require the approval of a site plan in accordance
with the provisions of Section
165.48, Site Plans, and approval of Homeowners Association documents by the
City, which establish provisions for maintenance of common areas.
 
   6.   Sign Regulations. See Section
165.27.
   7.   Green Space and Buffer Requirements. See Section
165.29.
   8.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Section
165.47.
   9.   Architectural Standards. See
Chapter 166.
   10.   Site Plan Requirements. See Section
165.48.
   11.   Special Exception Permits. See subsections
165.42(2) and (3).
165.16 R-3 MEDIUM DENSITY MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
    The regulations set forth in this section or elsewhere in this chapter
which are applicable, shall apply in the R-3 Medium Density Multiple-Family
Residential District. The R-3 Zoning District is intended and designed for
medium density residential areas of the City now developed with multiple-family
dwellings and to permit additional areas to develop with medium density
multiple-family dwellings.
   1.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the use of structures or land listed in
this subsection shall be permitted in the R-3 Zoning District.
      A.   Any principal permitted use in the R-2, Two-Family Residential
District, except one- family dwellings, and such use shall comply with the
minimum requirements of the R-2 District.
      B.   Multiple-family dwellings not exceeding four dwelling units per acre
of lot area excluding public street right-of-way and provided apartment
buildings have no greater than six dwelling units per building.
      C.   Day care center, day nursery or nursery school licensed by the State
of Iowa, provided no building, structure, or accessory use for property so used
is located less than 25 feet from any adjoining RE-1, R-1, or R-2 District
boundary; and provided there is established and well maintained in connection
therewith a completely fenced play lot of no less than 1,000 square feet in
area for the first 20 or fewer children under care, with 25 square feet added
to such play lot area for each additional designated child capacity of the
principal building.
      D.   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues, and similar places of
worship.
      E.   Public and parochial schools (elementary and secondary), colleges
and universities.
      F.   Cemeteries, including mausoleums and crematoriums.
      G.   Golf, swimming, and tennis clubs on country clubs and similar public
and non- commercial privately owned uses.
      H.   Museums and libraries not operated for profit.
      I.   Buildings and uses owned by a city, county, state or other political
subdivision which are operated for the social benefit or convenience of the
public, but excluding equipment storage yards and garages which are operated
and maintained for the necessary business and industrial service of the
community.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses. The following uses may exist as part of, or
in accessory to the principal permitted or special exceptions.
      A.   All accessory uses permitted in and as limited in the R-2 Zoning
District, provided such use shall comply with the minimum requirements of the
R-3 Zoning District.
      B.   Management and sales offices associated and accessory to a multiple-
family residential dwelling complex.
      C.   Recreation and service centers when provided as part of a multiple-
family complex are limited primarily for use by residents and their guests.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Special exception uses and
structures are permitted in the R-3 Multiple-Family Residential District in
accordance with subsections 165.42(2) and (3), after notice and public hearing.
   4.   Maximum Height Regulations. No principal building shall exceed 35 feet
in height, and no accessory structure shall exceed 15 feet in height, unless a
greater height is permitted for a special exceptions.
   5.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum bulk requirements shall be
observed in the R-3 Medium Density Multiple-Family Dwelling District:
 
                                             Side Yard
Principal                         Front Yard Setback,    Sum of Both Rear Yard
Use         Lot Area    Lot Width Setback    Least Width Side Yard   Setback
                                             on Any One  Setbacks
                                             Side
Multiple-   40,000
Family; Day square feet 150 feet  35 feet    25 feet     50 feet     35 feet
Care Center
Other Uses  80,000      200 feet  35 feet    50 feet     100 feet    35 feet
            square feet
 
   6.   Sign Regulations. See Section
165.27.
   7.   Green Space and Buffer Requirements. See Section
165.29.
   8.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Section
165.47.
   9.   Architectural Standards. See
Chapter 166.
   10.   Site Plan Requirements. See Section
165.48.
   11.   Special Exception Permits. See subsections
165.42(2) and (3).
165.17 RE-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RURAL ESTATES DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this section or elsewhere in this chapter,
which are applicable, shall apply in all RE-1 Single-Family Rural Estates
Zoning Districts. The RE-1 Zoning District is intended and designed to preserve
existing single-family residential neighborhoods and to promote new single-
family residential neighborhoods with large estate lots that are rural in
character. This district is also intended for areas where public sanitary sewer
service is not planned.
   1.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the use of structures or land listed in
this subsection shall be permitted in the RE-1 Zoning Districts.
      A.   A single-family dwelling on each lot. No temporary buildings,
trailers, mobile homes, tents, portable or potentially portable structures
shall be used for dwelling purposes.
      B.   Publicly owned parks, playgrounds, golf courses, swimming pools and
recreation areas. (Site Plan shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and approved by the City Council.)
      C.   Agricultural crops, truck farming, tree farms, and orchards,
provided that no offensive odors are created, and provided further that no
retail sales are permitted on the premises.
      D.   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues and similar places of worship
and associated residence of clergy or ordained official of the religious
organization. (Site Plan shall be reviewed by the Commission and approved by
the Council.)
      E.   Public and parochial elementary, junior high and middle schools.
(Site Plan shall be reviewed by the Commission and approved by the Council.)
      F.   Golf, swimming, and tennis clubs or country clubs, and similar
public and non- commercial privately owned uses. (Site Plan shall be reviewed
by the Commission and approved by the City Council.)
      G.   Group quarters with more than four persons who are not related by
blood, marriage, or adoption and do not constitute a family as defined by this
chapter are not permitted unless such use is permitted by over-riding State
law, and if such use has adequate parking and meets all other site development
requirements of this chapter. (Site Plan shall be reviewed by the Commission
and approved by the Council.)
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses. The following uses may exist as part of or in
accessory to the permitted use:
      A.   Normal accessory buildings and structures for a dwelling, religious
place of worship and school, similar to and including one private garage or
carport, swimming pools, one storage building, children's playhouse, radio and
television receiving antennas, barbecue pits, playground equipment, and tennis
courts.
      B.   Normal accessory buildings and structures for recreation areas such
as refreshment stands, playground equipment, all-weather shelters, tennis
courts, and barbecue pits.
      C.   Normal accessory buildings and structures to a residential use
associated with the keeping of domestic animals similar to and including cats,
dogs, birds, and tropical fish.
      D.   Private flower and vegetable gardening.
      E.   Private greenhouses and horticultural nurseries not exceeding 300
square feet of floor area.
      F.   Day care home as an accessory use in a dwelling unit where care,
protection and supervision are provided, for a fee, at least twice a week to
less than seven children at one time.
      G.   The taking of boarders or the leasing of rooms by a resident family,
provided the total number of boarders and roomers does not exceed two per
dwelling unit.
      H.   Home occupations as defined by this chapter.
      I.   Private stable, provided such building is located not less than 50
feet from the principal building of the lot under ownership, and such building
is not located less than 100 feet from an existing dwelling not located on the
lot under ownership, or 50 feet from the lot boundary, whichever is greater.
      J.   One horse for each one acre of land in excess of the minimum
required lot area. No horse shall be permitted for the minimum lot area.
      K.   Private kennels, provided such building and fenced ground area are
located not less than 200 feet from all property lines.
      L.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction
work.
      M.   Temporary use of a structure within a new subdivision as a job
office and real estate office for the subject subdivision, which use shall
terminate upon completion or abandonment of the project.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Special exception uses and
structures are permitted in the RE-1 Single-Family Rural Estates District in
accordance with subsections 165.42(2) and (3), after notice and public hearing.
   4.   Maximum Height Regulations. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height,
and no accessory structure shall exceed 15 feet in height, unless a greater
height is permitted for a special exception.
   5.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
for permitted uses in the RE-1 Single-Family Rural Estates District:
 
                                                  Side Yard
                                                  Setback,  Sum of
Use       Intended  Lot Area Lot Width Front Yard Least     Both Side Rear Yard
          Density                      Setback    Width on  Yard      Setback
                                                  Any One   Setbacks
                                                  Side
Single-   1.0 unit/ 43,560
Family    acre      square   125 feet  35 feet    20 feet   40 feet   50 feet
Dwellings           feet
Other               80,000
Uses      *         square   200 feet  75 feet    50 feet   100 feet  50 feet
                    feet
 
   6.   Bulk Regulations for Accessory Structures. The cumulative total gross
floor area of all permitted detached accessory structures shall not exceed 10
percent of the lot area or occupy more than 30 percent of the rear yard.
Accessory structures greater than 1,500 square feet shall be subject to the
approval of a special exception use and structure permit by the Board. In no
instance shall the accessory structure exceed the principal structure in height
or gross building floor area.
   7.   Wastewater Treatment Requirements. A lot served by a public or
community water system and not served by a public or community sanitary sewer
system shall have a minimum lot area of one acre (43,560 square feet) and
adequate area available to provide space for a permitted on-site treatment
system with an on-site septic tank and absorption field for wastewater
disposal. A lot not served by a public or community water and sanitary sewer
system shall have a minimum lot area of 10 acres to provide adequate space to
accommodate an on-site septic tank and absorption field for wastewater disposal
and to protect any on-site or neighboring water supply well. In areas where
public sanitary sewer is available, installation of sanitary sewer facilities
are required.
   8.   Sign Regulations. See Section
165.27.
   9.   Green Space and Buffer Requirements. See Section
165.29.
   10.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Section
165.47.
   11.   Architectural Standards. See
Chapter 166.
   12.   Site Plan Requirements. See Section
165.48.
   13.   Special Exception Permits. See subsections
165.42(2) and (3).
165.18 C-1 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this section or elsewhere in this chapter,
which are applicable, shall apply in all C-1 Highway Commercial Zoning
District. The C-1 District is established as a district which the principal use
of land is for establishments offering accommodations, supplies, or services to
motorists, and for certain specialized uses such as retail outlets, extensive
commercial amusements, and service establishments which although serving the
entire community and its trading area do not and should not locate in other C
Districts. The C-1 Highway Commercial District will ordinarily be located along
numbered State or federal highways or other highways designated as major
streets.
   1.   Principal Permitted Uses and Structures. Following are the principal
uses and structures permitted in the C-1, Highway Commercial District:
      A.   Any principal permitted use in the C-2 Zoning District, provided
such use shall comply with the minimum requirements of the C-1 Zoning District.
      B.   The following retail, commercial, and service establishments and
uses:
         (1)   Amusement parks, and outdoor stadiums and arenas.
         (2)   Automobile, trailer, motorcycle, boat, and farm implement
establishments for display, hire, rental, and sales (including sales lots);
including all repair work in connection with personal or customers’ vehicles.
         (3)   Carpenter and cabinetmaking shops.
         (4)   Car washes, including self-service.
         (5)   Educational center, other than elementary and secondary schools
         (6)   Gas stations or service stations
         (7)   Golf courses
         (8)   Greenhouses and plant nursery
         (9)   Health and fitness club with indoor facilities
         (10)   Hotels and motels
         (11)   Lumber yards, retail only
         (12)   Monument sales yards
         (13)   Public auction buildings or rooms. (Does not include animal,
vehicle auctions.)
         (14)   Mini-warehouse
         (15)   Small repair shop, including but not limited to bicycle,
motorcycle, lawn mower, and garden tractor repair. All activities must be
confined inside the buildings, including storage of parts and machines.
         (16)   Any use which is found by the Zoning Administrator to be a use
similar to one of the above named uses, and in his/her opinion, conforms to the
intent of this section.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses. Following are the permitted accessory uses
and structures permitted in the C-1 Highway Commercial District:
      A.   Any accessory use permitted in the C-2 Zoning District, providing
such use shall comply with the minimum requirements of the C-1 Zoning District.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Special exception uses and
structures are permitted in the C-1 Highway Commercial District in accordance
with subsections 165.42(2) and (3), after notice and public hearing.
   4.   Maximum Height Regulations. The maximum height for principal structures
in the C-1 Highway Commercial District is three stories or 35 feet.
   5.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
for permitted uses in the C-1 Highway Commercial District:
 
Use          Lot Area      Lot Width Front Yard Side Yard Street Side Rear Yard
                                     Setback    Setback   Corner Lot  Setback
Schools,
churches,
other public 10 acres                75 feet    50 feet               50 feet
or semi-
public
buildings
All other    20,000 square 125 feet  50 feet    *         30 feet     *
uses         feet
*   No side or rear yard, except where apartments are above a store or shop, a
rear yard of 20 feet shall be provided and where adjacent to an Agricultural
zoning district or Residential zoning district, a side yard of 10 feet and a
rear yard of 20 feet shall be provided or as specified in the buffer
regulations.
 
   6.   Frontage Road Requirement. Lots directly abutting arterial streets
shall not exceed one drive access onto each such arterial street except as
provided below. Common drives between adjacent landowners shall in lieu of
individual drives be located with the common property line as the centerline of
the drive and required to be located a minimum of 125 feet from any other drive
as measured from centerline to centerline. One additional drive access may be
permitted for a lot with continuous frontage in excess of 300 feet, or two
additional drive accesses for continuous frontage in excess of 600 feet, if
proper spacing is provided.
   7.   Sign Regulations. See Section
165.27.
   8.   Green Space and Buffer Requirements. See Section
165.29.
   9.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Section
165.47.
   10.   Architectural Standards. See
Chapter 166.
   11.   Site Plan Requirements. See Section
165.48.
   12.   Special Exception Permits. See subsections
165.42(2) and (3).
165.19 C-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this section or elsewhere in this chapter,
which are applicable, shall apply in all of the C-2 Central Business Zoning
District.
   1.   Principal Permitted Uses and Structures. Following are the principal
uses and structures permitted in the C-2, Central Business District:
      A.   Antique stores.
      B.   Artists, architectural, engineering and surveying services.
      C.   Automotive display, sales, service and repair.
      D.   Automotive paint and body shops.
      E.   Dry cleaners and laundry.
      F.   Custom cabinetry, furniture upholstery and repair.
      G.   Clubs, lodges, rental halls, and religious organizations.
      H.   Banks, savings and loans, and other financial institutions with
drive-in facilities and free- standing ATM machines permitted.
      I.   Retail or variety stores.
      J.   Formal wear and costume rental.
      K.   Hardware stores.
      L.   Personal services.
      M.   Professional and semi-professional office buildings.
      N.   Medical, dental, chiropractic, and veterinary clinics.
      O.   Restaurants, cafe, tavern and catering services.
      P.   Public buildings owned by federal, State, County, City or other
political subdivision that is operated for the social benefit or convenience of
the public and utilities but not including storage or maintenance yards or
buildings.
      Q.   Repair and restoration shops.
      R.   Museums and libraries.
      S.   Postal service (local substation of the United States) or private
parcel post delivery service.
      T.   Mini-warehousing for storage and outside storage within fencing.
Anything stored outside of the building must be out of public sight from the
street.
      U.   Plumbing, heating and cooling sales, service and repair shops.
      V.   Hotels or bed and breakfast inns, wherein guest rooms and dwelling
units shall not be located on the first floor of the building.
      W.   Printing, publishing and engraving.
      X.   Dance or music studios.
      Y.   Dwelling unit with a store or shop.
      Z.   Community amusements.
      AA.   Small engine sales, service and rental.
      BB.   Manufacturing, assembling, compounding, processing, repairing and
packaging uses that are contained within a building and create no offensive
noise, dust, odor, vibration or electrical interference.
      CC.   Tool, die, machine shop, welding and metal fabrication.
      DD.   Any use which is found by the Zoning Administrator to be similar to
one of the above named uses and conforms to the intent of this section.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses. Following are the permitted accessory uses
and structures permitted in the C-2 Central Business District:
      A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to their
permitted principal uses or structures of this district.
      B.   Storage warehouses in conjunction with the permitted principal uses
or structures of this district.
      C.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work,
provided that such buildings shall be removed upon the completion or
abandonment of the construction work.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Special exception uses and
structures are permitted in the C-2 Central Business District in accordance
with subsections 165.42(2) and (3).
   4.   Minimum Lot Area and Width. There are no minimum requirements for lot
area and width in the C-2 Central Business District.
   5.   Minimum Required Front, Side and Rear Yards. Following are the minimum
requirements for front, side, and rear yards in the C-2 Central Business
District:
      A.   Front: five feet.
      B.   Side street, corner lot: five feet.
   6.   Maximum Height. The maximum height for structures in the C-2 Central
Business District is 2 1/2 stories or 35 feet.
   7.   Permitted Signs. Permitted signs in the C-2 Central Business District
are described in the City sign regulations. (See Section
165.27.)
   8.   Minimum Required Off-Street Parking. The minimum off-street parking
requirements for permitted principal uses and structures in the C-2 Central
Business District are: two spaces provided for each business. (See Section
165.47)
   9.   Buffer and Green Space Requirements. The minimum buffer and green space
requirements for permitted principal uses and structures in the C-2 Central
Business District are described in the City buffer and green space regulations.
(See Section
165.29 of this chapter.)
   10.   Architectural Standards. See
Chapter 166.
   11.   Site Plan Requirements. See Section
165.48.
165.20 C-3 COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
    The regulations set forth in this section or elsewhere in this chapter,
which are applicable, shall apply in all C- 3 Community Commercial Zoning
District. The C-3 District is intended to provide a wide range of commercial
and retail uses and services for residents of the community and outside the
community, and has performance standards that encourage quality of building
design, site design, and construction aesthetically compatible with the desired
character of the area.
   1.   Principal Permitted Uses and Structures. Following are the principal
uses and structures permitted in the C-3, Community Commercial District:
      A.   Residential dwellings not exceeding six dwelling units per acre of
total lot area, in addition to any other permitted use which may be located on
the first floor of a building. Dwelling units shall not be located on the first
floor of a building in order to preserve the first floor area for permitted
nonresidential uses.
      B.   The following retail commercial and service establishments and uses:
         (1)   Antique stores, but not including refinishing or refurbishing.
         (2)   Artists’ and architectural supply.
         (3)   Automobile parts store; no repair work on site permitted.
         (4)   Banks, savings and loans and other financial institutions with
drive-in facilities permitted.
         (5)   Bars and night clubs.
         (6)   Billiard parlors and pool halls.
         (7)   Clothing and accessory stores, including storage and repair of
fur garments, but not including trading in furs.
         (8)   Commercial art galleries.
         (9)   Computers, typewriters, copiers, and similar office equipment
retail sales and service.
         (10)   Department or variety stores.
         (11)   Electrical repair shops.
         (12)   Floor covering stores, primarily engaged in retail sales and
incidental installation, but not including establishments primarily engaged in
installing or supplying building contractors.
         (13)   Formal wear and costume rental.
         (14)   Fruit stores and vegetable markets, provided that no outdoor or
open-air display, sales, or storage shall be permitted except by special
exception permit.
         (15)   Grocery and food stores.
         (16)   Hardware stores.
         (17)   Hot tub or sauna sales, but not including swimming pools.
         (18)   Household appliance stores.
         (19)   Household furniture, retail sales but not including cabinets.
         (20)   Household improvement products stores, i.e., paint, glass and
wallpaper stores, retail sales to the general public only.
         (21)   Interior decorations, including retail sales of draperies and
curtains.
         (22)   Luggage and leather goods.
         (23)   Music or dance schools or studios, including instruction and
exercise classes, but not including ballrooms or dance halls.
         (24)   Office furniture, and supplies, retail sales only.
         (25)   Pet shops, but not including boarding or outdoor kennels.
         (26)   Postal service (local substation of United States) or private
parcel post delivery service.
         (27)   Radio, television, and music stores.
         (28)   Sporting goods stores and bicycle shops, but not including
sales of motorized vehicles.
         (29)   Theaters; does not include drive-in theaters.
         (30)   Toy stores.
         (31)   Veterinarian clinics for household pets on an out-patient basis
only; no overnight boarding or lodging except by special exceptions permit.
         (32)   Any use which is found by the Zoning Administrator to be
similar to one of the above named uses, and in his/her opinion, conforms to the
intent of this section.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses. Following are the permitted accessory uses
and structures permitted in the C-3 Community Commercial District:
      A.   Retail establishments and refreshment stands accessory to principal
buildings; provided, however, there shall be no access to such place of retail
use except from the inside of the principal building, complex, or internal
courtyard, nor shall any identification signage, display of stock, goods or
advertising for such be so arranged that it can be viewed from outside the
principal building.
      B.   Storage areas incidental to the principal use, but not to exceed a
floor area which is equal to 25 percent of the floor area used by the principal
use, and such storage shall be wholly contained within the principal building.
      C.   Temporary use of buildings or trailers for uses incidental to
construction work, which buildings or trailers shall be removed upon the
completion or abandonment of the construction work.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Special exception uses and
structures are permitted in the C-3 Community Commercial District in accordance
with subsections 165.42(2) and (3), after notice and public hearing.
   4.   Maximum Height Regulations. The maximum height for principal structures
in the C-3 Community Commercial District is three stories or 35 feet.
   5.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
for permitted uses in the C-3 Community Commercial District:
 
Use      Lot Area      Lot Width Front Yard Side Yard Street Side Rear Yard
                                 Setback    Setback   Corner Lot  Setback
All uses 20,000 square 100 feet  30 feet    10 feet   20 feet     35 feet
         feet
 
   6.   Frontage Road Requirement. Lots directly abutting arterial streets
shall not exceed one drive access onto each such arterial street except as
provided below. Common drives between adjacent landowners shall in lieu of
individual drives be located with the common property line as the centerline of
the drive and required to be located a minimum of 125 feet from any other drive
as measured from centerline to centerline. One additional drive access may be
permitted for a lot with continuous frontage in excess of 300 feet, or two
additional drive accesses for continuous frontage in excess of 600 feet, if
proper spacing is provided.
   7.   Sign Regulations. See Section
165.27.
   8.   Green Space and Buffer Requirements. See Section
165.29.
   9.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Section
165.47.
   10.   Architectural Standards. See
Chapter 166.
   11.   Site Plan Requirements. See Section
165.48.
   12.   Special Exception Permits. See subsections
165.42(2) and (3).
165.21 C-4 PROFESSIONAL COMMERCE BUSINESS DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
    The regulations set forth in this section or elsewhere in this chapter,
which are applicable, shall apply in all C-4 Professional Commerce Business
Zoning District. The C-4 District is established as a district intended to
serve both neighborhoods and the community with the development of
professional, semi-professional, and public service buildings and office
buildings.
   1.   Principal Permitted Uses and Structures. Following are the principal
uses and structures permitted in the C-4, Professional Commerce Business
District:
      A.   Professional and semi-professional office buildings for the
following:
         (1)   Abstract title.
         (2)   Accountants and Bookkeeping.
         (3)   Actuaries.
         (4)   Advertising agencies.
         (5)   Adjusters (insurance).
         (6)   Aerial survey and photography.
         (7)   Appraisers - no sale or rental of any type of merchandise or
equipment.
         (8)   Architects.
         (9)   Attorneys.
         (10)   Auditors.
         (11)   Banks and financial institutions.
         (12)   Blueprinting and photocopying services.
         (13)   Business analysts - counselors or brokers.
         (14)   Business associations and other membership organizations.
         (15)   Building contractors, office only (no shops or storage).
         (16)   Chiropractors.
         (17)   Commercial photography, art and graphics.
         (18)   Consulates.
         (19)   Counseling, child guidance and family service.
         (20)   Court reporter and public stenographers.
         (21)   Credit reporting.
         (22)   Dentists.
         (23)   Detective agencies and investigating services.
         (24)   Drafting and plan services.
         (25)   Engineers, professional.
         (26)   Insurance and bonds.
         (27)   Legal services.
         (28)   Management, consulting, and public relations services.
         (29)   Manufacturer’s agents.
         (30)   Market research.
         (31)   Medical doctors and practitioners.
         (32)   Model agencies or schools.
         (33)   Mortgage brokers.
         (34)   Notary public.
         (35)   Opticians.
         (36)   Optometrists.
         (37)   Podiatrists.
         (38)   Public libraries.
         (39)   Public relations.
         (40)   Radio and television production and broadcast studios.
         (41)   Real estate agents and brokers.
         (42)   Real estate management.
         (43)   Secretarial services.
         (44)   Shoppers information services.
         (45)   Social service bureaus.
         (46)   Stock broker exchanges, investment services.
         (47)   Surveying.
         (48)   Tax consultants.
         (49)   Telephone answering services.
         (50)   Theater ticket agencies.
         (51)   Travel agencies.
         (52)   Zoning consultants.
      B.   Clinics or group medical centers, including dental clinics, but not
including animal clinics.
      C.   Day care center, day nursery or nursery school, licensed in the
State of Iowa, provided no building, structure, or accessory use for property
so used is located less than 25 feet from any other principal building on any
other lot in an R District; and provided there is established and well
maintained in connection therewith a completely fenced play lot of no fewer
than 1,000 square feet in area for the first 20 or fewer children under care,
with 25 square feet added to such play lot area for each additional designated
child capacity of the principal building.
      D.   Professional business training school, whose functions are wholly
contained within the structures, or otherwise effectively conceals its
functions from visual, olfactory, or auditory observation outside the premises.
      E.   Health and athletic fitness centers and clubs with all indoor
facilities.
      F.   Church, chapel, temple, synagogue and similar place of worship, and
associated residence of clergy or ordained official of the religious
organizations.
      G.   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      H.   Buildings and uses owned by a County, City and County, City or other
political subdivision which are operated for the social benefit or convenience
of the public, but excluding equipment storage yards and garages which are
operated and maintained for the necessary business and industrial service of
the community.
      I.   Museums and libraries not operated for profit.
      J.   Swimming, athletic, and tennis clubs or country clubs and similar
public and privately owned uses with outdoor facilities, by special exception
permit.
      K.   Any use which is found by the Zoning Administrator to be similar to
one of the above named uses and, in his/her opinion, conforms to the intent of
this subsection.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses. Following are the permitted accessory uses
and structures permitted in the C-4 Professional Commerce District:
      A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses or structures of this district, and located on the
same lot or a contiguous lot under the same ownership.
      B.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work,
provided that such buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the
construction work.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Special exception uses and
structures are permitted in the C-4 Professional Commerce Business District in
accordance with subsections 165.42(2) and (3), after notice and public hearing.
   4.   Maximum Height Regulations. The maximum height for principal structures
in the C-4 Professional Commerce District is four stories or 45 feet.
   5.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
for permitted uses in the C-4 Professional Commerce District:
 
Use      Lot Area      Lot Width Front Yard Side Yard Street Side Rear Yard
                                 Setback    Setback   Corner Lot  Setback
All uses 20,000 square 125 feet  50 feet    15 feet   30 feet     45 feet
         feet
 
   6.   Frontage Road Requirement. Lots directly abutting arterial streets
shall not exceed one drive access onto each such arterial street except as
provided below. Common drives between adjacent landowners shall in lieu of
individual drives be located with the common property line as the centerline of
the drive and required to be located a minimum of 125 feet from any other drive
as measured from centerline to centerline. One additional drive access may be
permitted for a lot with continuous frontage in excess of 300 feet, or two
additional drive accesses for continuous frontage in excess of 600 feet, if
proper spacing is provided.
   7.   Sign Regulations. See Section
165.27.
   8.   Green Space and Buffer Requirements. See Section
165.29.
   9.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Section
165.47.
   10.   Architectural Standards. See
Chapter 166.
   11.   Site Plan Requirements. See Section
165.48.
   12.   Special Exception Permits. See subsections
165.42(2) and (3).
165.22 I-1 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this section or elsewhere in this chapter,
which are applicable, shall apply in all I-1 General Industrial Zoning
Districts. The I-1 District is intended to provide areas of the City suitable
for activities and uses of a general industrial nature.
   1.   Principal Permitted Uses and Structures. Following are the principal
uses and structures permitted in the I-1, General Industrial District:
      A.   Any use permitted in the C-1 Zoning Districts, provided such use
shall comply with the minimum requirements of the I-1 District.
      B.   Manufacturing and processing uses that are contained within a
building and create no offensive noise, dust, odor, or vibration or create
electrical interference.
      C.   Animal hospital or kennel.
      D.   Wholesaling and warehousing but not including the bulk storage of
liquid fertilizer or petroleum product under pressure.
      E.   Farm implement display, sales, service and repair.
      F.   Lumber yard and building material sale and storage.
      G.   Truck display, sales, repair and storage.
      H.   Grain storage bins.
      I.   Grain elevator and feed mill.
      J.   Welding and repair shop.
      K.   Tool, die, and machine shop.
      L.   Railroads and public utilities including storage and maintenance
yards.
      M.   Contractor’s storage yard.
      N.   Automobile paint and body shops.
      O.   Plumbing, heating, air conditioning and sheet metal shops.
   2.   Permitted Accessory Uses. Following are the permitted accessory uses
and structures permitted in the C-1 Highway Commercial District:
      A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses or structure of this district.
      B.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work,
provided that such buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the
construction work.
      C.   Dwelling units for watchmen or caretakers employed on the premises
provided that an open yard of at least 2,400 square feet is reserved and
maintained for use by the occupants.
   3.   Special Exception Uses and Structures. Special exception uses and
structures are permitted in the I-1 General Industrial District in accordance
with subsections 165.42(2) and (3), after notice and public hearing.
   4.   Maximum Height Regulations. The maximum height for principal structures
in the I-1 General Industrial District is 45 feet.
   5.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
for permitted uses in the I-1 General Industrial District:
 
Use      Lot Area       Lot Width Front Yard Side Yard Street Side Rear Yard
                                  Setback    Setback   Corner Lot  Setback
All uses 100,000 square 300 feet  50 feet    50 feet   100 feet    50 feet
         feet
 
      A.   Multiple occupancy of a lot by more than one principal building
shall be permitted, only if the site is developed as a complex with a master
plan for the building site submitted for approval by the City with restrictions
placed upon the property requiring that buildings are compatible in
architectural design and use of exterior materials; organized in close physical
proximity, utilizing a centrally planned open space, landscape plan and parking
plan to serve and maintain a unified master plan concept, and provided parking
areas are not located between buildings within the complex.
   6.   Sign Regulations. See Section
165.27.
   7.   Green Space and Buffer Requirements. See Section
165.29.
   8.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Section
165.47.
   9.   Architectural Standards. See
Chapter 166.
   10.   Site Plan Requirements. See Section
165.48.
   11.   Special Exception Permits. See subsections
165.42(2) and (3).
165.23 PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
    The regulations set forth in this section or elsewhere in this chapter,
which are applicable, shall apply in all PUD Planned Unit Development Zoning
District. The PUD District is intended to provide for the development or
redevelopment of land under the control and in accordance with a Master Plan
and development guidelines and standards in which the land uses, transportation
elements, building densities, arrangements, and types are set out in a unified
plan, which may provide greater flexibility of land use, transfer of
development rights within the PUD, bulk regulations, and building locations
than the conventional zoning district may permit. The PUD District is intended
to: maximize benefits from the use of open spaces; maximize aesthetics;
encourage certain architectural standards for buildings, permit mixed uses and
diversity of bulk regulations without endangering the health, safety, welfare,
and land value of surrounding and internal properties. A PUD may consist of a
mix of land uses of residential building types, commercial, and limited
industrial, provided such Planned Unit Development is compatible with the
Comprehensive Plan of the City.
   1.   Minimum Size, Land Use and Maximum Density. A PUD shall consist of at
least 10 acres, land use types compatible with the Comprehensive Plan of the
City, and the density of the PUD shall not be in excess of the density
permitted by this section and compatible with the Comprehensive Plan. A Planned
Unit Development may include multiple-family or two-family dwellings in areas
designated as R-1 zoning in the Comprehensive Plan, if the proposed land use is
compatible with land uses adjoining and outside the PUD, and the dwelling unit
density of the PUD is not greater than 10 percent greater than the maximum
density permitted by the underlying zoning as set forth in this subsection. The
maximum number of dwelling units permitted in a PUD in areas of the City
designated as RE-1, R-1, and R-2 shall be based on the following maximum
dwelling unit per acre density by proposed zoning district:
 
Zoning District Maximum District Density
RE-1            1 dwelling unit per acre
R-1 (100)       2 dwelling units per acre
R-1 (90)        2.6 dwelling units per acre
R-1(80)         3 dwelling units per acre
 
   2.   Master Plan. As part of a proposed Planned Unit Development rezoning of
land in the City of Cumming, a Master Plan shall be prepared and 15 copies
submitted to the City which shows the generalized overall land use plan for
development of the area of the proposed PUD and shall include the following
information:
      A.   A vicinity map of sufficient scale to show site boundaries and the
zoning of adjacent properties within 1,000 feet.
      B.   Dimensions, legal descriptions, acreage, existing zoning, land use,
and ownership of the area of the proposed PUD; and existing zoning, land use,
and ownership of contiguous properties within 200 feet. The Master Plan shall
be submitted on paper sheets of 24 inches by 36 inches.
      C.   The location and delineation of each parcel proposed with different
land uses and bulk regulations, and a schedule of the proposed land use and
bulk regulations for each parcel set forth by ordinance.
      D.   Existing and proposed location of streets, pedestrian ways, trails,
parks, recreation areas, open space, buffers, parking areas, schools, and
anticipated traffic generation.
      E.   Area and number of dwelling units, and anticipated floor area of
nonresidential buildings by parcel.
      F.   Existing tree masses, water channels, drainageways, flood hazard
areas, and other topographic or environmentally important characteristics.
      G.   Proposed privately owned common areas and public ownership areas,
including open space, park land, and school sites.
      H.   Location of existing or proposed municipal utilities to serve the
PUD and adjoining properties, including sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water,
gas, electric and telephone/fiber optic service.
      I.   In addition to storm sewer facilities, other required storm water
management facilities and requirements shall be shown and/or explained on the
Master Plan.
      J.   Dimensions of all street right-of-way and paving widths, including
all proposed easements.
      K.   Staging schedule of development, including anticipated year
construction shall be initiated and the phasing of development planned to be
implemented.
      L.   Landscape areas proposed as part of small-scale PUD proposals to
include general location of shrubs, trees and earth berms.
      M.   Delineate the traffic impacts that would result from the project and
how they can be mitigated.
   3.   Rules, Regulations and Guidelines for Land Use and Performance. In
conjunction with the submittal of Master Plan illustrating the location of each
development parcel, there shall be prepared rules, regulations and guidelines
for the development of the PUD, and such matters shall be part of the
consideration by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council and
incorporated within an ordinance providing for the rezoning of the property to
a PUD. The rules, regulations and guidelines shall set forth the permitted land
use, bulk regulations, transfer of development rights within the area of the
PUD, height requirements, open space and landscaping requirements,
architectural standards, sign regulations, buffer requirements, off street
parking and loading requirements, and other performance standards as required
by the City for each parcel designated within the Master Plan. Any rules,
regulations and guidelines set forth within the ordinance and Master Plan
approved by the City Council providing for the rezoning shall be binding on the
property owner, their heirs, successors or assigns, and shall be recorded at
the Office of the County Recorder.
   4.   Process for City Review of Planned Unit Development. The Zoning
Administrator or other delegated City personnel shall review the submitted PUD
proposal; may discuss any suggestions or provide additional information to the
Developer, and shall file a report together with the applicant’s proposal to
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      A.   The Planning and Zoning Commission, after receipt of the report from
the Zoning Administrator, or other delegated City personnel, and receipt of the
PUD proposal, shall consider the presentation and give special attention to the
following:
         (1)   Compatibility with Comprehensive Plan.
         (2)   Land use and density.
         (3)   Building types, functions, architecture, buffers and
arrangement.
         (4)   Provision and use of open space and landscaping.
         (5)   Access to and from the site, and traffic circulation.
         (6)   General relationship to surrounding area.
      B.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may approve or disapprove the PUD
Master Plan and associated development rules, regulations and guidelines as
submitted, or may require the developer to modify, alter, adjust or amend the
proposed Master Plan and associated rules, regulations and guidelines, as the
Commission deems necessary, in order to preserve the harmonious intent and
purpose of this Zoning Ordinance and the Comprehensive Plan of the City.
      C.   An application for approval of PUD shall be deemed a petition for
rezoning to the PUD Zoning District, but prior to an affirmative report from
the Commission the applicant shall file the necessary petition as prescribed in
Amendments, Section
165.45.
      D.   Before any report is forwarded to the City Council by the Planning
and Zoning Commission pertaining to an application submitted for a PUD, said
Commission shall determine if such proposal is compatible with the
Comprehensive Plan or if such proposal represents a substantial change to the
Comprehensive Plan. The Commission shall hold a public hearing, giving notice
as provided by law for a rezoning.
      E.   After a complete review by the Planning and Zoning Commission, a
written recommendation and report giving reasons as to their action shall be
filed with the City Council.
      F.   Within a period of 60 days after the City Council has received a
report from the Planning and Zoning Commission, together with the proposed
Master Plan, and rules, regulations, and guidelines of the PUD development, a
public hearing shall be held by the City Council in accordance with the
provisions of Section
165.45. The City Council shall then approve or deny the application, in
accordance with Section
165.45.
   5.   Recording of Master Plan and Associated Rules, Regulations and
Guidelines. The ordinance providing for the rezoning of property to the PUD
Zoning District and the associated Master Plan, Rules, Regulations, and
Guidelines as approved by the City Council shall be recorded at the Office of
the County Recorder and shall be binding on the property owners, their heirs,
successors or assigns.
   6.   Modifications. Any proposed modifications in the approved PUD shall
first be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Said proposed
modification along with a report from the Commission shall then be forwarded to
the City Council with appropriate recommendations. The City Council shall then
take such appropriate action on the proposed modification and their decision
shall be final. No modification may be considered that is more than a 10
percent increase in density or change of uses on the site without a public
hearing as required of a rezoning procedure. A public hearing may be required
before the City Council on any modification, if determined by the Council. All
modifications and adjustments shall be recorded at the Office of the County
Recorder as required of the original rezoning.
165.24 SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The following provisions, regulations, or exceptions apply equally to all
districts except as hereinafter provided.
   1.   Visibility at Intersection. On a corner lot in any district except the
OC, Original Cumming District, no fence, wall, hedge, or other planting or
structure that will obstruct vision between a height of two feet and ten feet
above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets shall be erected,
placed, or maintained within the triangular area formed by connecting the
right-of-way lines at points which are 25 feet distant from the intersection of
the right-of-way lines and measured along the right-of-way lines.
   2.   Accessory Buildings. No accessory building shall be erected in any
required front yard. No separate accessory buildings shall be erected within
three feet of any side yard property line or five feet of any rear yard
property line, or occupy more than 30 percent of the required rear yard, or
exceed 16 feet in height.
   3.   More Than One Principal Structure on a Lot. In any district, more than
one principal structure housing a permitted principal use may be erected on a
single lot provided that the area, yard, and other requirements of this chapter
are met for each structure as though it were on an individual lot.
   4.   Height Regulation Exception. The height limitations contained in this
chapter do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, chimneys, antennas, water
tanks, ventilators, elevator housing, or other structures placed above the roof
level and not intended for human occupancy.
   5.   Use of Public Right-of-Way. No portion of the public road, street, or
alley right-of-way shall be used or occupied by an abutting use of land or
structure for storage or display purposes, or to provide any parking or loading
space required by this chapter, or for any other purpose that would obstruct
the use or maintenance of the public right-of-way.
   6.   Mailboxes and Structures in Public Rights-of-Way. The construction or
installation of any structure, except mailboxes, public sidewalks and driveway
approaches, by any person other than an employee or agent of the City, County,
or State government having jurisdiction shall not be permitted within the
public street right-of-way, unless authorized by the City Council. Mailboxes
located within the right-of-way of any public street within the City corporate
limits shall have support structures that are constructed to readily break or
bend without creating significant damage to a vehicle or a danger to its
passengers upon impact with the mailbox. Mailboxes with a single four by four-
inch or 4 and one-fourth-inch diameter wooden post or a metal post with a size
no greater than a two-inch diameter standard-strength steel pipe and buried no
more than 24 inches into the ground will be acceptable as a mailbox support
within the right-of-way of any public street. A metal post shall not be fitted
with an anchor plate, but it may have an anti-twist device that extends no more
than 10 inches below the ground surface. The post-to-box attachment details
should be of sufficient strength to prevent the box from separating from the
post top if the installation is struck by a vehicle. Mailbox supports shall not
be set in concrete, and shall not be constructed of brick, concrete, stone, or
masonry of any type in the public right-of-way of any public street. Mailboxes
within the right-of-way of any public street shall be located on the nonparking
side of the roadway. The bottom of the box shall be set at an elevation
established by the U.S. Postal Service, usually four feet above the roadway
surface. On curbed streets, the roadside face of the mailbox shall be set back
from the face of curb a distance of six to eight inches, and support structure
12 inches or more. On residential streets without curbs or all- weather
shoulders, the roadside face of the mailbox shall be set back six to eight
inches and support structure 12 inches or more behind the edge of pavement or
graveled surface. On paved roads with drivable all-weather shoulders, the
mailboxes shall be set back six to eight inches and support structure 12 inches
or more from the edge of the shoulder. Where a mailbox is located at a driveway
entrance, it shall be placed on the far side of the driveway in the direction
of the delivery route. Mailboxes shall maintain a minimum setback of 25 feet
from the radius of an intersecting street.
   7.   Proposed Use Not Covered In This Chapter. Any proposed use not covered
in this chapter as a permitted use or special exception shall be referred to
the Commission for a recommendation as to the proper district in which such use
should be permitted and the chapter amended as provided in Section
165.45 before a permit is issued for such proposed use.
   8.   Buildings to Have Access. Every building hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be on a lot or parcel having a frontage on a public
street or road.
   9.   Mobile Homes or Trailers. Mobile homes occupied as a permanent or
temporary place of residence shall be located only in an approved mobile home
park or mobile home subdivision unless otherwise provided in this chapter and
occupied travel trailers and camping trailers shall be located only in an
approved tourist or trailer campground.
   10.   Hedges and Fences. Fences or hedges shall not exceed four feet in
height in any required front yard and shall not exceed six feet in height in
any required side or rear yard, subject to the further restriction of
subsection 1 of this section.
   11.   Loading. All businesses except those in the OC District shall provide
adequate off-street loading for all vehicles so that no public thoroughfare
will be blocked at any time.
   12.   Minimum Dwelling Dimensions. The first floor of a residential dwelling
shall not be less than 24 feet by 32 feet, exclusive of garages.
165.25 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.  
   The regulations and restrictions of this chapter shall apply as follows:
   1.   Regulations to be Uniformly Applied. The regulations set by this
chapter shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, and
particularly within each district, except as hereinafter provided.
   2.   All Uses and Structures to Conform. No building, structure, or land
shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part
thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or
structurally altered unless in conformity with all of the regulations herein
specified for the district in which it is located.
   3.   Height, Density or Yards Shall Not Be Violated. No building or other
structure shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed the height, to
accommodate or house a greater number of families, or to have narrower or
smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or other open spaces, than herein
required or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   4.   Separate Yards, Open Spaces and Off-Street Parking Required. No part of
a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required
about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this
chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking,
or loading space similarly required for any other building.
   5.   Minimum Yards and Lot Areas May Not Be Reduced. No yard or lot existing
at the time of passage of this Zoning Ordinance shall be reduced in dimension
or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created
after the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance shall meet at least the
minimum requirement established by these regulations.
   6.   Parking Requirements. No parking space required by this chapter in a
residential district shall be provided in any required front yard, within the
required side yard along the street side of a corner lot, or within five feet
of an interior side or rear lot line. No parking space required by this chapter
or any merchandise, display or exterior storage shall be provided in any
required front yard or in the first five feet inside the property line of any
required side or rear yard in a C-1 District.
   7.   Propane Tanks. All propane tanks over 500 gallons in capacity installed
within the incorporated City shall be located at least 25 feet from any
building or structure which is used as a business or residence and shall comply
with all structures setback requirements for lot lines. (Small tanks shall be
installed at least 10 feet from any building or structure.) All installations
and hook-ups for such propane tanks must pass inspection by the Zoning
Administrator and Fire Chief. Standards adopted are those adopted by the State
of Iowa for such installations and hook-ups.
165.26 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   1.   Statement of Intent. It is recognized that while a home occupation in
and of itself is an acceptable use within a residential area, it is when those
uses take on a more commercial character that conflicts arise. This section is
intended to protect residential districts from potential adverse impacts of
activities defined as home occupations and to ensure that home occupations do
not have a negative impact upon the residential area in which they are located;
to permit residents of the community a broad choice in the use of their homes
as a place of livelihood in the production or supplementing of personal/family
income; to restrict incompatible uses; and to establish criteria and develop
standards for the use of residential structures or dwelling units for home
occupations. It is not the intent to eliminate certain home-based businesses
and occupations which may be compatible with the residential areas.
   2.   Criteria. The following are the criteria for Home Occupations.
      A.   No Exterior Display. There shall be no exterior display except for a
sign, as specified in paragraph D below.
      B.   Residential Design Features. The building shall include no features
of design not customary for residential use.
      C.   Residential Character. The building or premises occupied shall not
be rendered objectionable or detrimental to the residential character of the
neighborhood due to exterior appearance or by the emission of dust, gas, noise,
odor, smoke, or in any other way.
      D.   Signs. Any sign utilized by a home occupation in a Residential
District shall be limited to one building-mounted sign which shall not exceed
one square foot in area.
      E.   Equipment. Any merchandise or stock in trade sold, repaired or
displayed shall be stored entirely within the residential structure or in an
accessory building.
      F.   Employment. The home occupation shall be carried on by a member of
the family residing in the dwelling unit, employing not more than two
nonresident persons outside the immediate family residing on the premises.
Additional employees may be permitted as required by law, or may be permitted
through the variance process by the Board of Adjustment.
      G.   Traffic and Parking. Traffic generated by the home occupation shall
not be objectionable to the neighboring residents. Off-street parking shall be
adequate to accommodate the parking demand generated by the home occupation.
      H.   Structural Additions. Any additions to the residence for the
expansion of a home occupation are prohibited.
      I.   Rental Unit. If the home occupation is to be conducted in a rental
unit, a written statement from the property owner giving his or her permission
is required.
      J.   Noncompliance. Any home occupation which does not abide by the terms
of this section shall be punishable under the Violation and Penalty section of
this Zoning Ordinance.
   3.   Registration Required. All home occupations require a completed
registration form (no fee) to be filed with the City in order to assure
compliance with the terms of this Zoning Ordinance. Approval by the City must
be issued prior to the commencement of any home occupation use. All home
occupations shall be reviewed every two years and shall be subject to
reconsideration by the Board of Adjustment if at any time the Code Enforcement
Officer determines that the conduct has become detrimental to the neighborhood.
   4.   Permitted Home Occupations. The following home occupations are
permitted:
      A.   Office facilities for accountant, architect, engineer, lawyer,
clergyman, or other similar professional occupations.
      B.   Office facilities for telecommuters, sales representatives,
manufacturer’s representatives, and other similar trades or occupations when
traffic generated complies with the traffic and parking criteria as stated in
subsection 2.
      C.   Home sewing or tailoring.
      D.   Studio for an artist, photographer writer, or composer.
      E.   Telephone answering.
      F.   Catering and home cooking and preserving for the purpose of selling
the product.
      G.   Tutoring or giving lessons, limited to four students simultaneously.
      H.   Child care facilities. Any registered or non-registered child care
shall meet the requirements for a child care facility as set forth in Section
237A.1(3a) of the Code of Iowa.
      I.   Beauty shop or barbershop.
      J.   Homebound handicapped persons.
   5.   Prohibited Home Occupations.
      A.   Any occupation which is considered illegal by law.
      B.   Any use which does not meet the criteria in subsection 4 of this
section.
   6.   Other Home Occupations. Any home occupation which is not considered
permitted or prohibited shall use and abide by the variance process through the
Board of Adjustment. The Board shall take into account concerns by neighbors
and the possible negative impacts of the residential character of the
neighborhood. The Board may place any restrictions on the home occupation and
the Board shall be critical when evaluating requests for additional employees.
   7.   Changes to the Operation or Selling of Property. Home Occupation
permits DO NOT continue with the land and are NOT transferable. Any change to
the operation of the home occupation requires a re-registration.
165.27 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   Sign regulations found in
Chapter 167 are part of the City zoning regulations.
165.28 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND AND STRUCTURES.
    Within the various districts established by the Zoning Ordinance, as
amended, there exist uses of land and structures that were lawfully in
existence prior to the adoption of the Zoning Ordinance, or amendments thereto,
but which do not conform to the current provisions of the Zoning Ordinance, as
amended. These uses are defined for purposes of the Zoning Ordinance as
nonconforming uses. It is the intent of the Zoning Ordinance to avoid undue
hardship to the owners of nonconforming uses by permitting nonconforming uses
to continue until they are removed. However, nonconforming uses are declared by
the Zoning Ordinance to be incompatible with conforming uses in the districts
involved and to have an adverse impact on orderly development or on the market
value of properties with conforming uses.
   1.   Nonconforming Use of Land. The nonconforming use of land upon which no
structure is erected or constructed may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      A.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged, increased or extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied immediately before the use
became nonconforming.
      B.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part, to
any other portion of the lot or parcel that was not occupied by such use
immediately before the use became nonconforming.
      C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
continuous period of three months, any subsequent use of such land thereafter
shall conform to the district regulations for the district in which such land
is located. However, if the nonconforming use is a seasonal use, to the extent
that the use consistently is not operated during an off-season time period each
year, then the off-season time period shall not be considered a period when the
use has ceased for purposes of this subsection.
      D.   If any such nonconforming use is changed to or replaced by a
conforming use, the use shall not thereafter be changed back to the
nonconforming use.
   2.   Nonconforming Use of Structures. The nonconforming use of a structure,
or of a structure and land in combination, may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      A.   No structure devoted to such nonconforming use shall be enlarged,
extended, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered, unless the subsequent
use of the structure and land in combination is brought into conformity with
the district regulations for the district in which the structure and land are
located.
      B.   If any such nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and land
in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for a continuous period of three
months, any subsequent use of such structure, or structure and land in
combination, thereafter shall conform to the district regulations for the
district in which the structure and land is located. However, if the
nonconforming use is a seasonal use, to the extent that the use consistently is
not operated during an off-season time period each year, then the off-season
time period shall not be considered a period when the use has ceased for
purposes of this subsection.
      C.   If any nonconforming structure is destroyed by any means to an
extent of 50 percent or more of its market value at the time of destruction,
then such structure's nonconforming status shall terminate, and if such
structure is reconstructed the subsequent use of the structure and land in
combination shall conform to the district regulations for the district in which
the structure and land is located.
      D.   If any nonconforming structure is destroyed by any means to an
extent of less than 50 percent of its market value at the time of destruction,
such structure may be reconstructed provided that the reconstruction project
must be commenced within six months from the date of partial destruction and
must be diligently prosecuted to completion.
      E.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and land in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
   3.   Repairs and Alterations.
      A.   Ordinary repairs and alterations may be made to nonconforming
structures, provided that no structural alterations may be made to such
nonconforming structures. A nonconforming residential building may be repaired
or altered to improve livability and health conditions, provided that no change
in the number of dwelling units is permitted.
      B.   If any official charged with protecting the public safety declares
any building or part thereof to be unsafe and orders that action be taken for
the restoring of such building to a safe condition, nothing in the Zoning
Ordinance shall be interpreted to prohibit such action.
   4.   Unlawful Uses are Not Nonconforming Uses. The nonconforming use
regulations of this section are applicable only to uses of land and structures
that were lawfully in existence prior to the adoption of the Zoning Ordinance,
or amendment thereto, but which do not conform to the current provisions of the
Zoning Ordinance, as amended. Any use of land, use of structure, or use of a
structure and land in combination that, immediately prior to the adoption of
the Zoning Ordinance or amendment thereto, was not a lawful use under the
previous zoning regulations, shall not be authorized to have nonconforming
status under this section.
   5.   Annexation. The nonconforming use regulations of this section are
applicable to all structures and uses of land and structures that were lawfully
in existence prior to the annexation of the subject property into the City, but
which would be prohibited or restricted after annexation under the provisions
of the Zoning Ordinance, or amendments thereto.
165.29 LANDSCAPING AND OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
    1.   Purpose. The landscaping and buffer requirement specified herein are
intended to foster aesthetically pleasing development which will preserve,
protect, and enhance the appearance, character, general health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the community. Through this section the following
objectives will be achieved:
      A.   Promotion of responsible land use and development;
      B.   Mitigation of the negative environmental consequences of development
including noise, heat transfer, glare, erosion, sedimentation, and stormwater
runoff;
      C.   Protection, conservation, and regeneration of natural and renewable
resources;
      D.   Enhancement of our community’s environmental and visual character;
      E.   Safeguarding and enhancement of property values and protection of
public and private investment;
      F.   Screening between and buffering of incompatible land uses and
undesirable views; and
      G.   Promotion of the retaining of natural and creation of manmade
landscapes that encourage the natural percolation and filtration of water and
the recharge of aquifers.
   2.   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following words are
defined and interpreted.
      A.   American Standards for Nursery Stock (ANSI): Provides a common
terminology and standards for (a) measuring plants, (b) specifying and stating
the size of plants, (c) determining the proper relationship between height and
caliper, or height and width, and (d) determining whether a root ball or
container is large enough for a particular size plant.
      B.   Berm: A mound of earth, either natural or manmade, designed and used
to provide visual interest and/or aid in the buffering or screening of
undesirable uses or views.
      C.   Buffer: A combination of horizontal space (land) and vertical
elements (plants, berms, fences, walls) used to physically separate and
partially or wholly screen views of incompatible adjacent land uses or
undesirable features.
      D.   Buffer intensity: Means that buffers are intended to soften rather
than block views, to obscure or block view where privacy is desired, and to
mitigate both views and noise.
      E.   Buffer fence or wall: It shall be a maximum of six feet in height,
opaque, and constructed of treated wood when ground contact is required, cedar,
redwood, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), ornamental steel, aluminum, vinyl coated
chain link, concrete, stone, brick or other approved materials. Posts are to be
anchored appropriately for material used, and designed to support fence height.
         (1)   For visual and noise buffer, acoustically designed walls shall
be a maximum of six feet in height, opaque, and designed by a registered
architect or engineer.
         (2)   Chain link fence may exist for security purposes, but is not
considered a part of the landscape screening to satisfy the intent of this
requirement.
      F.   Building street wall: A building wall that is more or less parallel
to an adjacent public street. Such building wall line shall follow and include
irregular indentations or juxtapositions in the building, excluding steps and
unenclosed porches.
      G.   Caliper: Trunk diameter measurement taken six inches (6”) above the
ground for trees up to and including four inches (4”) in diameter, measured
twelve inches (12”) above the ground for trees ranging between four (4”) and
twelve inches (12”) in diameter, and measured four and one-half feet (4 ½’)
above the ground for trees over twelve inches (12”) in diameter.
      H.   Deciduous: means woody plants that lose their leaves annually.
      I.   Deciduous tree, overstory: A plant with one vertical stem or main
trunk that generally begins branching at a heigh of six feet (6’), which has an
elevated and distinct crown, and which reaches a mature height of at least
thirty feet (30’).
      J.   Deciduous tree, understory: A plant with one or more stems or trunks
which has an elevated and distinct crown and which reaches a mature height of
less than thirty feet (30’). Understory trees are usually planted for aesthetic
reasons such as flowers, interesting bark, or colorful fall foliage. Smaller
understory trees may be suitable for planting under overhead utility lines.
      K.   Diameter at breast height (DBH): The tree trunk diameter measured in
inches at a height of four and one-half feet (4 ½’) above the ground.
      L.   Evergreen/conifer: A cone bearing seed plant that retains its
foliage year-round. Evergreens are good for screening purposes and providing
year-round color and substance to the landscape.
      M.   Foundation planting: Plants placed in near proximity to the
foundation of a building. Usually arranged within planting beds.
      N.   Ground cover: A plant other than turf grasses which grows more
horizontally than vertically. Ground covers are an alternative to turf grasses
and may provide erosion control on slopes.
      O.   Landscape island/pod: An unpaved area located within or adjacent to
a parking lot and used to guide traffic, separate lanes, and provide protection
to parked vehicles and to pedestrians. Landscaped islands are used to promote
green space within parking areas by providing trees, shrubs, and ground covers.
      P.   Modification, major: A change to the structure of more than 60% of
the assessed value.
      Q.   Modification, minor: A change to the structure of less than 60% of
the assessed value.
      R.   Mulch: A protective layer of materials, either organic or inorganic,
placed around plants to prevent erosion, aid in soil moisture retention,
prevent freezing of roots, and control weeds thus providing an environment
suitable for growth of selected vegetation.
      S.   Open space: That portion of the lot which is free of buildings,
parking lots or other vehicle use areas.
      T.   Screening: Vegetation, walls, fencing, or berms used individually or
in combination to obstruct or conceal views of undesirable elements.
      U.   Shrub: A woody plant that is smaller than a tree and has several
main stems arising at or near the ground.
      V.   Streetscape: Combination of vegetation or other special visual
features along either side of vehicular travel lanes for purposes of aesthetics
or environmental mitigation.
      W.   Vegetation: Living plant material including trees, shrubs, grasses,
and flowers.
      X.   Zoning Administrator: The administrative officer (may be the
building inspector) designated or appointed by the City to administer and
enforce the regulations contained in this ordinance
   3.   Applicability. These regulations apply to all new development or
redevelopment of land including expansions or major modifications of an
existing development on any parcel of land located within the corporate limits
of the City, or outside the corporate limits of the City as provided by law
      .A.   The requirements herein shall not apply to:
         (1)   Existing detached single-family structures;
         (2)   Structures and sites existing at the effective date of this Code
that do not undergo a land use change or major modification;
         (3)   Reconstruction of existing structures suffering less than sixty
percent (60%) loss of the total value by destruction from natural or unnatural
causes;
         (4)   Proposed structures that have received development approval
prior to the effective date of this section.
      B.   The requirements here do apply to:
         (1)   All new nonresidential structures;
         (2)   All new single-family structures;
         (3)   All new multi-family and single-family attached dwellings;
         (4)   Major modifications to structures or sites;
         (5)   All subdivision plats where buffers are required;
         (6)   Minor modifications except that the requirements of this section
shall only apply to the area of the site impacted by the minor modification.
      C.   Phased projects shall implement the required landscaping for that
portion of the site being implemented or phased, except for buffers required of
single-family detached residential developments. Said buffers shall be
installed in their entirety in conjunction with the associated final platting
of the parcel. Fulfillment of any missing or replacement of dead landscaping in
any portion of the site will be required to be implemented when the last area
is phased or complete site build out is achieved.
   4.   Preparation of the Landscape Plan.
      A.   Landscape plans shall be required to be prepared by a state licensed
landscape architect, certified nurseryman, or other qualified professional
knowledgeable in plant materials as acceptable to the Zoning Administrator.
Said requirements are to ensure the long-term viability of plant materials
chosen and to ensure landscape plans fulfill the desired outcomes described
above.
   5.   Approval Process.
      A.   Landscape plans are required to be submitted for review as part of
the development application process as denoted in Chapter 165.48 Site Plan
Requirements. Landscape plans shall be approved by the City Council following
the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission except for landscape
plans associated with permitted conditional use or variance requests which
shall be approved by the Board of Adjustment. Landscape plans associated with
minor modification requests may be reviewed and approved administratively
provided no reduction to the standards presented herein is proposed.
      B.   No building permit shall be issued or any development, master, or
subdivision plan or plat be recommended for approval without compliance with
all provisions and requirements set forth in this section.
      C.   Lack of compliance with this section may result in the withholding
or revocation of a building permit or certificate of occupancy.
      D.   Prior to final plat approval for any single-family detached
residential plats and prior to the issuance of a final occupancy permit for any
buildings or structures, the Zoning Administrator shall inspect installed
landscaping for compliance with the approved landscaping plan. Said final plat
approval shall not be given nor shall a final occupancy permit be issued if
landscaping is not in accordance with the approved plan or if landscape
materials are dead, unhealthy, or demonstrate lack of proper maintenance.
Landscaping must be installed by November 1 to be counted as fulfilling
landscaping requirements. A temporary occupancy permit may be issued to
projects ready for occupancy after November 1 with provision of surety as
stated below with expiration of the permit being May 31 of the following
calendar year to allow the developer time to bring the landscaping into
compliance with approved development plans. If a developer desires to receive
final plat approval for any single-family detached residential plat prior to
installation of landscaping or a builder or property owner desires to receive a
temporary occupancy permit prior to the installation of landscaping then the
developer, builder, or property owner shall be required to provide to the City
surety in an amount one and one-half (1 ½) times the cost of landscaping
installation. Failure to complete required landscaping by May 31 following
receipt of final plat approval or of a temporary occupancy permit may result in
forfeiture of surety provided and/or revocation of the final plat approval or
temporary occupancy permit.
   6.   Landscape and Buffer Provisions.
      A.   General Landscape Provisions.
         (1)   Requirements for Single-Family Residential.
            a.   One (1) over-story tree shall be required per 5000 sq. feet up
to 20,000 sq. feet – with a minimum of two (2).
            b.   Two (2) shrubs shall be required per 5,000 sq. feet up to
20,000 sq. feet – with a minimum of four (4).
         (2)   Requirements for All Other Uses.
            a.   Two (2) trees and three (3) shrubs shall be required per three
thousand (3,000) square feet – with a minimum of two (2) trees and six (6)
shrubs.
            b.   Of the required trees, fifty percent (50%) of the trees must
be of an overstory or evergreen variety unless otherwise done for design intent
and specifically approved by the appropriate reviewing body.
            c.   Additional landscaped beds, ground covers, and ornamental
grasses may be provided but are not required.
            d.   This shall be in addition to any landscaping required for off
street parking areas, buffer areas, or screening.
         (3)   Harmonious with Existing Environment. Landscape plans shall be
harmonious with the existing environment and architectural design and shall
demonstrate a recognizable pattern or theme through the choice and location of
materials for the overall development of the project.
         (4)   Easements. Overstory trees and large upright evergreen trees
shall not be planted within public utility easements. Understory trees, shrubs,
and ground covers are permissible within said easements except that a corridor
wide enough for truck access to utility lines must be preserved through the
easement. Whenever possible, buffers should not overlap utility easements.
         (5)   Existing Vegetation and Natural Features. Existing significant
and worthwhile vegetation and natural features such as land forms shall be
preserved and incorporated into development to the greatest extent possible.
            a.   At the discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission,
credit for the preservation of existing vegetation and natural land forms may
be given toward fulfilling the planting requirements of this section. Credit
for said preservation must be requested at the time of development application
and all such vegetation to be preserved must be clearly identified on the
landscape plan. Vegetation must be of a desirable variety and in an overall
healthy condition and form to be considered suitable for preservation.
            b.   Credit for preservation of vegetation may only be given for
required landscaping in the area of the vegetation being preserved. For
example, vegetation in the middle of a site could be counted towards open space
landscaping requirements but would not be counted towards fulfilling buffering
requirements.
         (6)   Pedestrian Linkage. Whenever possible, pedestrian linkages shall
be provided to public open spaces and/or the City trail system.
         (7)   Visibility at Street Intersections. Landscaping, berms, walls
and fences shall not obstruct pedestrian, bicycle or vehicular traffic
visibility at street intersections or access points to/from streets.
         (8)   Minimum Vegetation Requirements. Minimum vegetation requirements
for one category or landscaping purpose are in addition to another.
         (9)   Landscaped Areas. All areas of a site not intended for
buildings, permanent water bodies, or paved surfaces for off street parking
areas, sidewalks, or pedestrian trails shall be vegetated.
            a.   Vegetation shall be of turf or plants. Tuft shall be of a
species suitable to the area. All vegetation, including turf, must be well
established and healthy at the time of inspection by the Zoning Administrator
in order to receive a final occupancy permit.
            b.   Areas around permanent water bodies, including stormwater
detention facilities shall not become unkempt and unmaintained areas. Such
areas shall be treated with appropriate landscaping to enhance their presence.
In addition, measures such as the use of jets to move the water shall be
implemented to aid in preventing the buildup of algae on the water surface.
            c.   A three-inch (3”) thickness of mulch material shall be
installed around all plants. The implementation of mulch shall be limited to
planting beds and the area immediately around base of trees and shrubs as
allowed below. Organic mulch materials such as fibrous wood is preferred over
inorganic mulches. Large expanses of mulched areas without plants are not
acceptable. The mulching of plants shall adhere to the following guidelines:
               i.   Deciduous trees shall have a ring of mulch up to a distance
of twenty-four inches (24”) beyond the trunk.
               ii.   Evergreen trees shall have a ring of mulch up to a
distance of twelve inches (12”) beyond the widest spreading branches of the
plant.
               iii.   Shrubs shall have a ring of mulch up to a distance of
eight inches (8”) beyond the widest spreading branches of the plant.
               iv.   Areas with ground covers and/or planting beds shall be
mulched until such time that the plants have grown together to completely cover
any bare soil.
               v.   When possible, plants within lawn areas should be grouped
and mulched as one bed for ease of mowing.
         (10)   Mulch Materials. More extensive use of mulch materials for
design intent may be allowed with the specific approval of the Planning and
Zoning Commission or Board of Adjustment as applicable. All use or organic or
inorganic mulch materials shall be shown and identified on the landscape plan.
      B.   Vegetation. The use and incorporation of plant materials shall
adhere to the following guidelines, standards, and design principles:
         (1)   Vegetation should be located to simulate nature with groupings
and massing rather than linear or symmetrical lines unless such lines are for
intentional design intent.
         (2)   Plant size at maturity should dictate spacing, however, spacing
may be altered for design intent provided care is given not to overcrowd
plants.
         (3)   All plants shall be commercially grown and shall meet all
requirements set forth by the current edition of the “American Standards for
Nursery Stock” (ANSI).
         (4)   As much as possible, plant materials that are native or
adaptable to local climactic and moisture conditions should be implemented.
         (5)   For visual interest and to limit the spread of disease or
insects, multiple plant species and genus shall be used. Unless otherwise
specifically allowed by the appropriate approval body for design intent, each
type of vegetation (deciduous overstory, deciduous understory, evergreen,
shrubs, etc.) required shall be comprised of a minimum of three (3) varieties
to limit the spread of disease or insects and prevent the total loss of a
vegetation type within a site.
         (6)   Trees shall not be planted in any space with less than five feet
(5’) clearance in any direction with the exception of trees planted in tree
wells in paved areas and specifically designed for such purpose.
         (7)   Trees shall not be planted within six feet (6’) to the back of
curb of any vehicle travel lane or four feet (4’) to any paved area, including
sidewalks and trails.
         (8)   No plants other than ground covers or perennials with a maximum
height of fifteen inches (15”) shall be planted within five feet (5’) of fire
hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be shown on the landscape plan.
         (9)   No plants other than ground covers or perennials with a maximum
height of fifteen inches (15”) shall be planted within five feet (5’) of Fire
Department connections. Fire Department connections shall be shown on the
landscape plan.
         (10)   Trees that will overhang pedestrian areas shall be pruned to
provide a minimum clear height of eight feet (8’).
         (11)   Trees that will overhang vehicle travel areas shall be pruned
to provide a minimum clear height of fifteen feet (15’).
         (12)   The following minimum plant sizes and dimensions are required
at the time of planting:
            a.   Deciduous overstory trees shall have a minimum trunk diameter
of two inches (2”) measured six inches (6”) above the root collar and shall
have a minimum five feet (5’) of clear trunk. Clump varieties (2 or more stems)
are allowed and each stem shall measure a minimum diameter of two inches (2”).
            b.   Deciduous understory trees shall have a minimum trunk diameter
of one and one-half inches (1 ½”) measured at six inches (6”) above the root
collar and shall have a minimum three and one-half foot (3 ½’) clear trunk.
Clump varieties (2 or more stems) are allowed and each stem shall measure a
minimum diameter of one inch (1”).
            c.   Deciduous shrubs that reach a mature height greater than five
feet (5’) shall be installed at a minimum of three feet (3’) in height.
            d.   Deciduous shrubs that reach a mature height between three (3’)
and five feet (5’) shall be installed at a minimum of two feet (2’) in height.
            e.   Deciduous shrubs that reach a mature height of less than three
feet (3’) shall be installed at a minimum height of fifteen inches (15”).
            f.   Evergreen trees shall be installed at a minimum height of six
feet (6’).
            g.   Evergreen shrubs shall be installed at a minimum height of two
feet (2’).
            h.   Evergreen ground covers (mat evergreens) shall measure a
minimum spread of fifteen inches (15”).
            i.   Climbing vines and ornamental grasses shall have been grown in
a quart container for a minimum of one year.
            j.   Ground covers and perennials shall be a minimum of a four-inch
(4”) container, #SP4, round or square.
            k.   Annuals may be as “plug” or “pack.”
      C.   Berms. Berms shall adhere to the following guidelines, standards,
and design principles:
         (1)   Berms shall be designed in an undulating manner so as to give
the appearance of being naturally formed unless non-undulating forms are for
intentional design intent and approved by the appropriate reviewing body.
         (2)   Berms shall not have a negative impact on stormwater management
for a development or the surrounding area. The requirement for stormwater
management does not negate the requirement for berms.
         (3)   Berms required for screening purposes shall be an average of
three feet (3’) in height and may be required to be higher if berm height and
associated landscaping is deemed to not be sufficient to adequately provide
required screening.
         (4)   Berms shall have a slope no greater than three to one (3:1).
         (5)   Berms shall be planted with permanent ground cover (turf or
other plants) to stabilize the slope and prevent erosion. Rocking of berms as a
ground cover material is prohibited; however, rock boulders (8 inches or
greater in size) may be implemented within the side slopes to aid in
stabilizing the soil, obtain additional berm height, and/or for visual
interest.
      D.   Buffers.
         (1)   Buffer Requirements. The requirements set forth in this section
shall apply to any development or redevelopment of property within the City of
Cumming.
         (2)   Statement of Intent. The use of physical barriers or buffers is
considered a necessary requirement to allow for the transition from one zoning
district or use to another contrasting zoning district or use in recognition of
neighbor’s rights, to promote the coordination of neighborhood efforts and
compatibility of neighborhood elements, and to protect the value of buildings
and property.
         (3)   Conditions for Requiring A Buffer. The following conditions
shall require a buffer:
            a.   Buffers shall be required as shown on the Table of Buffer
Requirements where different zoning classifications abut. A buffer required by
the table shall be provided by the proposed development when it is located in a
zoning district listed in the left-most column of the table and the development
abuts a zoning district listed across the top of the table.
            b.   Where a proposed development is located adjacent to a Plan
Unit Development (PUD) District, a buffer shall be required based on the
existing uses in the area adjacent to the proposed development or the most
intense uses permitted by the PUD District if the area adjacent to the proposed
development is vacant. The buffer required shall be based on the Table of
Buffer Requirements using the zoning district in which the existing or proposed
uses permitted in the PUD District are first permitted.
         (4)   Buffer Standards. Buffer standards are stated in terms of the
width of the buffer and the number of plant units required per one hundred
(100) linear feet. The width of each buffer shall, at a minimum, meet the
standard buffer width. The City Council, with recommendation from the Planning
and Zoning Commission, may allow the described narrower buffer widths.
The “plant unit multiplier” is a factor by which the basic number of plant
materials required for a given buffer is determined given a change in width of
that yard. The number of plant materials required shall be rounded up when a
fraction is calculated. The type and quantity of plant materials required by
each buffer, and each buffer option, are specified in this section. These
standards are minimum requirements. More plantings, wider buffers, or higher
structures may be provided.
TABLE OF BUFFER REQUIREMENTS
                         Adjacent Zoning District
Proposed Development      A-1 A-2 R-1 R-E1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-2 C-4 I-1 PUD
A-1 Agricultural          X   X   X   X    X   X   X   X   X   X   X   **
A-2 Annexation            *   *   *   *    *   *   *   *   *   *   *   **
R-1 Single-Family         X   X   X   X    X   X   1   1   1   1   1   **
RE-1 Single Family Rural  X   X   X   X    X   X   1   1   1   1   1   **
Estates
R-2 Two-Family            X   X   X   X    X   X   1   1   1   1   1   **
R-3 Multi-Family          X   X   X   X    X   X   1   1   1   1   1   **
C-1 Highway Commercial    4   4   4   4    4   4   X   X   X   X   X   **
C-2 Central Business      2   2   2   2    2   2   X   X   X   X   X   **
C-3 Community Commercial  3   3   3   3    3   3   X   X   X   X   X   **
C-4 Professional Commerce 3   3   3   3    3   3   X   X   X   X   X   **
I-1 Industrial            4   4   4   4    4   4   3   3   3   3   3   **
PUD                       **  **  **  **   **  **  **  **  **  **  **  **
*Buffer requirements based on proposed zoning district once annexed.
**Buffer requirements based on PUD and special requirements therein.
X = No buffer required.
1 = Buffer shall meet requirements of a Buffer 1.
2 = Buffer shall meet requirements of a Buffer 2.
3 = Buffer shall meet requirements of a Buffer 3.
4 = Buffer shall meet requirements of a Buffer 4.
Buffer 1: The standard buffer shall be a thirty (30) foot wide landscaped
buffer. A three (3) foot berm is required.
                           Buffer 1 Plan Multiplier Table
                           Buffer Width      Planting Multiplier
Required plantings per 100 linear feet of buffer:         0’*         Buffer
Wall
   2 Canopy Trees                  15’*         1.4
   2 Understory Trees                  20’*         1.2
   5 Evergreen Trees                  30’         1.0
   16 Shrubs                     40’         0.8
                           50’         0.6
                           *P&Z & Council approval needed.
Buffer 2: The standard buffer shall be a fifty (50) foot wide landscaped
buffer. A three (3) foot berm is required.
                           Buffer 2 Plan Multiplier Table
                           Buffer Width      Planting Multiplier
Required plantings per 100 linear feet of buffer:         0’*         Buffer
Wall
   4 Canopy Trees                  30’*         1.4
   3 Understory Trees                  40’*         1.2
   4 Evergreen Trees                  50’         1.0
   24 Shrubs                     60’         0.8
                           70’         0.6
                           *P&Z & Council approval needed.
Buffer 3: The standard buffer shall be a fifty (50) foot wide landscaped
buffer. A three (3) foot berm is required.
                           Buffer 3 Plan Multiplier Table
                           Buffer Width      Planting Multiplier
Required plantings per 100 linear feet of buffer:         0’*         Buffer
Wall
   5 Canopy Trees                  30’*         1.4
   4 Understory Trees                  40’*         1.2
   5 Evergreen Trees                  50’         1.0
   34 Shrubs                     60’         0.8
                           70’         0.6
                           *P&Z & Council approval needed.
Buffer 4: The standard buffer shall be a seventy-five (75) foot wide landscaped
buffer. A six (6) foot berm is required or a six (6) foot solid masonry/brick
wall shall be provided along the property line.
                           Buffer 4 Plan Multiplier Table
                           Buffer Width      Planting Multiplier
Required plantings per 100 linear feet of buffer:         0’*         Buffer
Wall
   6 Canopy Trees                  30’*         1.4
   5 Understory Trees                  40’*         1.2
   6 Evergreen Trees                  50’         1.0
   38 Shrubs                     60’         0.8
                           70’         0.6
                           *P&Z & Council approval needed.
         (5)   Buffer Wall Standards. A buffer wall may be permitted with
specific approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council, when
it can be shown that a traditional landscaped buffer is not feasible. A buffer
wall shall be a minimum of six (6) feet in height; constructed of a permanent
low maintenance material such as brick, concrete, precast concrete, tile block,
etc.; the wall shall be designed by an architect or engineer for both
structural adequacy and aesthetic quality.
         (6)   Burden of Provision of Buffer. The burden of provision and
selection of the buffer shall be as follows:
            a.   Where two different zoning districts, requiring a buffer
between them, are both in an existing improved condition, the above requirement
is not retroactive and should a buffer be desired, it shall be by mutual
agreement between property owners or as otherwise provided by law. However, in
the event of any or all of the improved property is abandoned, destroyed,
demolished, etc., for the purpose of renewal or redevelopment, etc., that
portion of such property being renewed or redeveloped, etc., shall be
considered vacant land subject to the requirements herein.
            b.   Where one of two different zoning districts requiring a buffer
between them is partially developed, the developer of the vacant land shall
assume the burden, unless otherwise specified herein.
            c.   Where both zoning districts, requiring a buffer between them,
are vacant or undeveloped, the burden shall be assumed by the developer of the
more intense use.
         (7)   Reduction of Buffer Requirements. Where the line between two
districts, requiring a buffer, follows a street, right-of-way, railroad,
stream, or other similar barrier, the required buffer width may be reduced,
according to the buffer standards tables, with the exception that a buffer wall
will still require City Council approval.
         (8)   Waiver of Buffer Requirements. Where the line between two
districts, requiring a buffer, follows a street, right-of-way, railroad,
stream, or other similar barrier, the requirement for a buffer may be waived by
the City Council upon receipt of a recommendation from the Planning and Zoning
Commission, provided such waiver does not permit the exposure of undesirable
characteristics of land use to the adjoining zoning district.
      E.   Streetscape and Building Wall Plantings.
         (1)   A landscaped edge or streetscape should be provided along all
streets upon which the public is permitted to travel regardless of whether they
are public or private. There are no minimum landscaping requirements for
streetscapes, however, landscaping placed along streetscapes shall be allowed
to count towards required open space landscaping unless said landscaping is
part of a required buffer.
         (2)   Streetscapes are intended to be ornamental in nature bringing
needed green to the City, shade and visual softening of pavement expanses.
         (3)   Streetscapes should attempt to have a recognizable pattern that
establishes a sense of place for a particular neighborhood or development.
         (4)   Blank building walls uninterrupted by architectural features
should be visually broken by vegetation.
      F.   Screening. The implementation of landscaping, berms, decorative
walls and fences shall be used to screen undesirable views such as headlight
glare, mechanical equipment, outdoor storage, loading areas, off street parking
areas, etc.
         (1)   Off street parking areas: see 165.47 of this section.
         (2)   Outdoor storage: see Chapter 166, “Architectural Standards,” of
this title.
         (3)   Mechanical units: see Chapter 166, “Architectural Standards,” of
this title.
         (4)   Trash enclosures: see Chapter 166, “Architectural Standards,” of
this title.
         (5)   Additional screening measures may be required at the discretion
of the Zoning Administrator to mitigate impacts and views not otherwise covered
by this section.
      G.   Off Street Parking Areas. Vegetation in off street parking areas not
only provides needed visual relief from large expanses of parking but also
provides shade reducing the heat glare from parking areas thus improving
pedestrian comfort. Views of off-street parking areas from public rights of way
shall be screened to a height of at least three feet (3’). Screening shall be
as near to one hundred percent (100%) opacity as possible with careful
attention paid to eliminate “through views” under tree canopies. In addition to
the general landscaping regulations above, the following off-street parking
area landscaping requirements shall also apply:
         (1)   The use of multiple small parking lots shall be encouraged
rather than one large parking lot.
         (2)   Multiple landscaped islands shall be used and combined with
vegetation to effectively break up large expanses of parking. Location of
islands should be carefully considered to provide shade to as much of the
parking area as possible.
         (3)   The location of islands shall allow for the easy and free
movement of all emergency vehicles.
         (4)   Landscaped islands shall be placed, at a minimum, every eighteen
(18) stalls within a row of parking. Landscaped islands shall be, at a minimum,
nine feet (9’) wide and thirty-four feet (34’) in length for dual parking rows
or a minimum of nine feet (9’) wide and seventeen feet (17’) in width for
single rows.
         (5)   Landscaped pods (tree diamonds) within a row of parking shall be
evenly spaced between landscape islands, however, shall be spaced no farther
than nine (9) parking stalls from another landscaped pod or landscaped island.
Landscaped pods shall measure no less than six feet (6’) to back of curb in
each direction.
         (6)   Linear islands running the length of a parking row shall be
required for every six (6) rows of parking. Said islands provide visual breaks
and may be used as pedestrian pathways for safe pedestrian movement through the
parking area or as part of stormwater management measures. Linear islands shall
measure a minimum of ten feet (10’) from back of curb to back of curb.
         (7)   The minimum vegetation required in off street parking area shall
be as follows:
            a.   Two (2) trees in each nine by thirty-four-foot (9’ x 34’)
island.
            b.   One tree in each nine by seventeen-foot (9’ x 17’) island.
            c.   One tree in each landscape pod.
            d.   Additional shrubs, ground covers, grasses, and flowers may be
provided in landscaped islands or pods but are not required.
            e.   Vegetation required in off street parking areas shall be in
addition to general landscaping provisions, however, general landscaping
requirements may be placed within off street parking areas.
            f.   Trees and shrubs provided in landscaped islands and pods
beyond the number required for off street parking landscaping shall be counted
towards fulfilling the site’s general landscaping provisions.
      H.   Open Space Requirements. The following open space requirements shall
be adhered to for any development within the City of Cumming:
         (1)   Each principal structure of an apartment or office complex shall
be separated from any other principal structure in the complex by an open space
of not less than fifteen (15) feet in width except as required in Paragraph 2
of this section.
         (2)   When doors and windows in the exterior walls of a living unit
face a wall of the same building and/or a wall of another building in the same
apartment complex site, there shall be provided a minimum open space of not
less than thirty (30) feet. Said distance to be measured on a line projected at
right angles at the opening, from the wall containing the opening to the
opposite wall.
         (3)   Cantilevers and uncovered decks may project from the building
wall into the required open space, provide an uncovered deck shall not cover
more than 50% of the open space within the front yard. Open stairways may
project from the building wall in the required open space not more than seven
and one-half (7 ½) feet. Stairways when located in the required open space
shall be cantilevered or supported by the necessary columns only; support by a
wall other than the exterior building wall is strictly prohibited.
         (4)   On each lot there shall be provided an open space equal to at
least the following percentage of the total lot area for each zoning district
listed. Said open space shall be unencumbered with any structure, or off-street
parking or roadways, ingress-egress access drives and shall be landscaped and
well maintained with grass, trees and shrubbery, except for areas used for
pedestrian walks, courtyards or plazas.
 
DISTRICTS             PERCENT OF OPEN SPACE
R-1, RE-1             30%
R2, R3, C-1, C-3, C-4 25%
I-1                   20%
C-2                   15%
 
         (5)   Any existing use in the C-2 Central Business District shall be
exempt from this chapter; however, all redevelopment or new development in the
C-2 District shall be subject to compliance.
   7.   Administration and Enforcement.
      A.   A Zoning Administrator appointed by the Council shall administer and
enforce these regulations. Said officer may be provided with the assistance of
such other persons as the Council may direct. If the Zoning Administrator finds
that any of these regulations are being violated, such officer shall notify in
writing the person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of
the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. The
Administrator shall order discontinuance of illegal buildings or structures or
of additions, alterations, or structural changes thereto; discontinuance of any
illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by these
regulations to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its
provisions.
   8.   Appeals From Decision of Zoning Administrator.
      A.   Appeals from any decision of the Zoning Administrator may be taken
to the Board of Adjustment as provided in Section 165.42.
   9.   Separate Offences May Be Charged.
      A.   The owners or tenants of any building, structure, land or part
thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains a violation of these
regulations may each be charged with a separate offense and upon conviction
suffer the penalties provided.
   10.   Other Remedies.
      A.   If any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, or land is used in violation of these regulations, the City
may, in addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus or other
appropriate lawful action necessary to prevent, correct or abate such
violation.
      B.   Waiver of Requirements. A waiver or reduction in any of the
requirements outlined in this chapter may be granted by the Board of Adjustment
through the variance process. The City Council may, following review and
recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission, choose to defer
installation of required landscaping with cause provided the applicant has
demonstrated how said landscaping may be installed on site in the future.
      C.   Plant Substitutions.
         (1)   Approval; Categories. Plants may be varied from the requirements
described above in the following way; however, no more than fifty percent (50%)
of one required plant type may be substituted for another without specific
Planning and Zoning Commission approval. For example, no more than fifty
percent (50%) of required under story trees could be substituted for shrubs.
The following substitution categories are exclusive (i.e., 20 shrubs cannot be
substituted for 1 overstory tree):
            a.   Two (2) deciduous understory trees equal one deciduous
overstory tree or evergreen.
            b.   Ten (10) shrubs equal one understory tree.
      D.   Warranty and Maintenance.
         (1)   Warranty and Replacement.
            a.   In a single-family detached residential subdivision, the
developer shall have responsibility for the replacement of any vegetative
material for a period of one year or until such time that site maintenance is
turned over to an owners’ association or the adjacent property owner in
conjunction with the issuance of a final occupancy permit if no property
owners’ association.
            b.   Replacement is required for any living plant material that was
shown on an approved landscape plan that is removed, dies, or disfigured,
including if removed by the City as part of any City work within a City right
of way or public utility easement. Replacement shall be the responsibility of
the owners’ association, however, in the absence of covenants specifically and
explicitly placing replacement responsibility on an owners’ association
replacement shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
         (2)   Maintenance.
            a.   Maintenance shall be the responsibility of the owners’
association, however, in the absence of covenants specifically and explicitly
placing maintenance responsibility on a specified association, entity or
individual, maintenance shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
            b.   Landscaping areas shall be kept in a neat and orderly manner
and shall be free of trash, litter, debris, dead plants, or weeds.
            c.   All maintenance or pruning shall be done in accordance with
the most current standards of the National Arborists Association, American
National Standards Institute, American Association of Nurserymen, or American
Society of Landscape Architects.
         The City shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
vegetation on public property including rights of way. The City may also
perform such maintenance on private property if necessary, to protect sanitary
sewers or other public improvements, to prevent the spread of insects or
disease, or to improve site visibility at intersections of vehicles and/or
pedestrian pathways.
(Section 165.29 - Ord. 2019-09 - Nov. 20 Supp.)
165.30 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
    An Administrative Officer appointed by the Council shall administer and
enforce these regulations. Said officer may be provided with the assistance of
such other persons as the Council may direct. If the Administrative Officer
finds that any of these regulations are being violated, such officer shall
notify in writing the person responsible for such violations, indicating the
nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. The
Administrator shall order discontinuance of illegal buildings or structures or
of additions, alterations, or structural changes thereto; discontinuance of any
illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by these
regulations to insure compliance with or to prevent violation of its
provisions.
165.31 APPEALS FROM DECISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
    Appeals from any decision of the Administrative Officer may be taken to the
Board as provided in Section
165.40.
165.32 SEPARATE OFFENSES MAY BE CHARGED.
    The owners or tenants of any building, structure, land or part thereof, and
any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains a violation of these regulations may
each be charged with a separate offense and upon conviction suffer the
penalties provided.
165.33 OTHER REMEDIES.
    If any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, or land is used in violation of these regulations, the City
may, in addition to other remedies, institute injunction, mandamus or other
appropriate lawful action necessary to prevent, correct or abate such
violation.
165.34 CONSTRUCTION COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.
    A construction compliance certificate shall be obtained from the
Administrative Officer before any building or structure shall be erected,
reconstructed, or structurally altered to increase the exterior dimensions,
height or floor area, or remodeled to increase the number of dwelling units or
accommodate a change in use of the building and/or premises or part thereof.
The construction compliance certificate shall state that the proposed
construction complies with all provisions of these regulations, and no
subsequent modifications shall be made to plans or to actual construction that
would be in violation of these regulations. The construction compliance
certificate shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale, showing
existing and proposed structures, uses, open spaces, parking and loading
facilities and other features affecting the use of the property.
165.35 OCCUPANCY COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.
    Subsequent to the effective date of these regulations, no change in the use
or occupancy of land or any change in use of occupancy in an existing building,
other than for single-family dwelling purposes, shall be made, nor shall any
new building be occupied for any purpose other than a single-family dwelling
until an occupancy compliance certificate has been issued by the Administrative
Officer. Every occupancy compliance certificate shall state that the new
occupancy complies with all provisions of these regulations and no subsequent
modifications shall be made to the occupancy, use or method of operation that
would be in violation of these regulations. All construction and occupancy
compliance certificates shall be covered by a weatherproof material and shall
be affixed to a sturdy sign, and displayed between the curb line and sidewalk
at all times during construction. Failure to do so shall be a violation of this
code.
165.36 APPLICATION FOR COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATES.
    Applications for compliance certificates shall be made prior to beginning
construction or assuming occupancy on fully completed application forms
obtained from the Administrative Officer, accompanied by such plans and
information necessary to determine that the proposed construction or occupancy
complies with all applicable provisions of these regulations.
165.37 FEES.
    Any person making a request that results in a Zoning Ordinance amendment
shall pay to the City a fee of $50.00 plus $3.00 per notification letter.
165.38 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT CREATED.
    A Board of Adjustment is hereby established. The Board shall consist of
five members to be appointed by the Council for a term of five years except
that when the Board shall first be created one member shall be appointed for a
term of five years; one for a term of four years; one for a term of three
years; one for a term of two years; and one for a term of one year. Members of
the Board may be removed from office by the Council for cause upon written
charges and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled by the Council for
the unexpired term of the member.
165.39 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
    The Board shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its affairs, and in
keeping with these regulations. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. The Chairperson
or, in the absence of the Chairperson, the acting Chairperson may administer
oaths and compel attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the
public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote indicating such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall be a public record and be immediately filed in the office of
the Board.
165.40 HEARINGS, APPEALS, NOTICE.
    Appeals to the Board concerning interpretation or administration of these
regulations may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer or bureau of
the governing body of the City affected by any decision of the administrative
official. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time not to exceed 60
days of filing with the administrative official and with the Board a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The administrative official shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from was taken. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for
the hearing of appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. At the
hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. A fee of $15.00
shall be paid to the Administrative Officer at the time the notice of appeal is
filed, which the Administrative Officer shall forthwith pay over to the credit
of the general revenue fund of the City. Applicant shall pay all costs of
publication and the service of notice.
165.41 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
    An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the administrative official from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with said official, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his/her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life and property. In such cases, proceedings shall not
be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board
or by a court of record on application, on notice to the administrative
official from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
165.42 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   1.   Administrative Review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
administrative official in the enforcement of these regulations.
   2.   Special Exceptions; Conditions Governing Applications and Procedures.
To hear and decide only such special exceptions as the Board is specifically
authorized to pass on by the terms of these regulations, to decide such
questions as are involved in determining whether special exceptions should be
granted, to grant special exceptions with such restrictions and conditions as
are appropriate under these regulations, and to deny special exceptions when
not in harmony with the purpose and intent of these regulations. A special
exception shall not be granted by the Board unless and until the following
requirements are satisfied:
      A.   Application and Hearing Procedures. The following procedures shall
apply to all requests for special exceptions before the Board:
         (1)   A written application for a special exception must be submitted
indicating the section of this chapter under which the special exception is
sought and stating the grounds upon which it is requested.
         (2)   Notice shall be given at least seven days in advance of a public
hearing on the application by posting notice in a conspicuous place at Cumming
City Hall.
         (3)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear and
participate at the public hearing, either in person or by agent or attorney.
         (4)   In granting any application for a special exception, the Board
shall set forth its decision in writing, and the written decision shall contain
findings that the Board is empowered under the applicable section of this
chapter to grant the special exception and that the granting of the special
exception will not adversely affect the public interest.
         (5)   A $100.00 non-refundable application fee shall accompany each
application.
      B.   Conditions to Authorization. In granting any special exception, the
Board may prescribe such restrictions and conditions with respect to the
permitted use as the Board deems reasonable to further the objectives of these
regulations. Violations of such restrictions and conditions, when made a part
of the terms under which the special exception is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of these regulations. Except as specifically provided in a decision
by the Board to grant a special exception, the permitted use shall conform to
all applicable regulations of the district or districts in which it is located.
      C.   Time Limitations. The Board may prescribe a time limit within which
the action for which the special exception is required to commence or
terminate, or both. Failure to commence or terminate, or both, such action
within the prescribed time limit set shall void the special exception.
      D.   Reversion. If the use authorized under an approved special exception
is not initiated within one year of approval of the special exception, or if
the use authorized under an approved special exception is discontinued or
abandoned for a continuous period of one year, then the right to maintain or
continue the special exception shall terminate by operation of law without any
further action by the Board.
      E.   Practical Difficulties. Provided all of the foregoing requirements
of the subsection A are satisfied, the Board shall have the power to authorize,
in any zoning district, exceptions to any setback area, length, width, height,
yard, size or projection limitations or to the minimum required number of off-
street parking or loading spaces; provided such an exception may be granted
only where:
         (1)   Such exception does not exceed 50 percent of the particular
limitation or number in question; or such exception is from a yard requirement
to permit an addition to an existing legal nonconforming building, and such
addition extends no further into the required yard than the existing building.
         (2)   The exception relates entirely to a use classified by applicable
district regulations as either a principal permitted use, a permitted accessory
use, a permitted sign, or to off-street parking or loading areas accessory to
such a permitted use.
         (3)   The exception is reasonably necessary due to practical
difficulties related to the land in question that prohibit the use of the
subject property in a manner reasonably similar to that of other property in
the same district, including, but not limited to, exceptional narrowness,
shallowness or shape of the subject property, exceptional topographical
conditions, location of public utilities or public improvements on or adjacent
to the subject property, or other extraordinary or exceptional situation.
         (4)   Such practical difficulties cannot be overcome by any feasible
alternative means other than an exception.
         (5)   The exception is in harmony with the essential character of the
neighborhood of the land in question.
   3.   Variances; Conditions Governing Applications and Procedures. To hear
and decide requests for variances under the terms of these regulations, to
decide such questions as are involved in determining whether variances should
be granted, to grant variances with such restrictions and conditions as are
appropriate under these regulations, and to deny variances when not in harmony
with the purpose and intent of these regulations. A variance shall not be
granted by the Board unless and until the following requirements are satisfied:
      A.   Application and Hearing Procedures. The following procedures shall
apply to all requests for variances before the Board:
         (1)   A written application for a variance must be submitted stating
the grounds upon which it is requested.
         (2)   Notice shall be given at least seven days in advance of a public
hearing on the application by posting notice in a conspicuous place at Cumming
City Hall.
         (3)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear and
participate at the public hearing, either in person or by agent or attorney.
         (4)   In granting any application for a variance, the Board shall set
forth its decision in writing, and the written decision shall contain findings
of fact in support of the decision.
         (5)   A $100.00 non-refundable application fee shall accompany each
application.
      B.   Required Findings. The Board may grant a variance from the terms of
these regulations only if the Board determines that the applicant has
established that the subject property was acquired in good faith and where by
reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of the property, or
where by reason of exceptional topographical conditions or other extraordinary
or exceptional situation, the strict application of the terms of these
regulations actually prohibits the use of the subject property in a manner
reasonably similar to that of other property in the same district, and where
the Board is satisfied under the evidence before it that a literal enforcement
of the provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship,
and so that the spirit of these regulations shall be observed and substantial
justice done. To establish unnecessary hardship, a property owner must show all
of the following elements:
         (1)   The land in question cannot yield a reasonable return from any
use permitted by the regulations of the district in which the land is located.
Failure to yield a reasonable return may only be shown by proof that the owner
has been deprived of all beneficial or productive use of land in question. It
is not sufficient merely to show that the value of the land has been
depreciated by the regulations or that a variance would permit the owner to
maintain a more profitable use.
         (2)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances not of
the owner’s own making, which unique circumstances must relate specifically to
the land in question and to general conditions in the neighborhood.
         (3)   The use to be authorized by the variance will not alter the
essential character of the locality of the land in question.
      C.   Conditions to Authorization. In granting any variance, the Board may
prescribe such restrictions and conditions with respect to the permitted use as
the Board deems reasonable to further the objectives of these regulations.
Violations of such restrictions and conditions, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of these
regulations. Except as specifically provided in a decision by the Board to
grant a variance, the permitted use shall conform to all applicable regulations
of the district or districts in which it is located.
      D.   Reversion. If the use authorized under an approved variance is not
initiated within one year of approval of the variance, or if the use authorized
under an approved variance is discontinued or abandoned for a continuous period
of one year, then the right to maintain or continue the variance shall
terminate by operation of law without any further action by the Board.
165.43 DECISIONS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
    In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board may, so long as such
action is in conformity with the terms of these regulations reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have powers of the
administrative official from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of
three members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision or determination of the administrative official, or to
decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to
pass under this chapter, or to effect any variation in application of this
chapter.
165.44 APPEALS FROM THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
    Any person or any board, taxpayer, department, board or bureau of the City
aggrieved by any decision of the Board may seek review by a Court of Record of
such decision, in the manner provided by the laws of the State and particularly
by Chapter 414, Code of Iowa.
165.45 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
    The regulations imposed and the districts created by this chapter may be
amended from time to time by the Council, but such amendments shall not be made
without public hearing before the Council and after a report has been made upon
the amendment by the Commission. At least seven days’ notice of the time and
place of such hearing shall be posted as required by Code of Iowa. In case the
Commission does not approve the change or, in the case of a protest filed with
the Council against a change in district boundaries signed by the owners of 20
percent or more either of the area of the lots included in such proposed
change, or of those immediately adjacent thereto and within the 200 feet of the
boundaries thereof, such amendment shall not be passed except by the favorable
vote of three-fourths of all members of the Council. Amendments need only refer
to the legally described land involved and need not refer to the Code section
to be valid. Such referral to only the legal description will not invalidate
the map or this chapter other than to change the zoning of the land described.
165.46 APPLICATION FOR CHANGE OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
    Any person may submit to the Council an application requesting a change in
the zoning district boundaries as shown on the official zoning district map.
Such application shall be filed with the Clerk, accompanied by a fee of $150.00
plus $10.00 an acre plus $3.00 per notification letter, and shall contain the
following information:
   1.   Legal Description and Address. The legal description and local address
of the property.
   2.   Present and Proposed Zoning. The present zoning classification and the
zoning classification requested for the property.
   3.   Existing and Proposed Use. The existing use and proposed use of the
property.
   4.   Names and Addresses of Surrounding Property Owners. The names and
addresses of the owners of all property within 200 feet of the property for
which the change is requested.
   5.   Reasons for Requesting Change. A statement of the reasons why the
applicant feels the present zoning classification is no longer valid.
   6.   Plat Required. A plat showing the locations, dimensions, and use of the
applicant’s property and all property within 200 feet thereof including
streets, alleys, railroads and other physical features. All fees shall be
deposited to the general revenue fund of the City. Failure to approve the
requested change shall not be deemed cause to refund the fee to the applicant.
165.47 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   The requirements and regulations of this section shall apply to any
development or redevelopment of/and within the City.
   1.   Statement of Intent. It is the intent of this section to prevent
traffic congestion and to provide for proper traffic safety by preserving the
public thoroughfares for the unimpaired movement of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic. Therefore, it is recognized that the requirements of this section are
minimum and that in certain uses of land, these requirements may be inadequate.
Where review of the site plans and intended land use indicate through the
application of proven standards or experienced statistics that the requirements
herein are inadequate for the specific land use adaptation, a greater
requirement for off-street parking space is justified and may be required to
preserve the intent of this chapter.
   2.   Off-Street Loading Space Requirements. In any zoning district in
connection with every building or part thereof hereafter erected, having a
gross floor area of 10,000 square feet or more, which is to be occupied by
manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods display, retail store, wholesale
store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary, office buildings, or other similar
commercial or industrial uses which require the receipt or distribution by
vehicles of material or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on
the same lot with such building, at least one off-street loading space, and for
multiple tenant commercial/retail shopping centers, one additional such loading
space for each 20,000 square feet or major fraction thereof of gross floor area
so used in excess of 10,000 square feet, provided the total number of loading
spaces is not required to be more than the total number of occupying tenants.
      A.   Each loading space shall not be less than nine feet in width and 19
feet in length for loading spaces not requiring loading dock access, and 12
feet in width and 50 feet in length for loading dock access for trucks. All
loading areas shall be designed in a manner acceptable to the City and provide
adequate space for loading access.
      B.   Such loading area may occupy part of a required yard or court space,
except required open space under Chapter
165.29 of this ordinance, and provided the loading area and access roadways
meet all setbacks required of off-street parking areas as set forth in this
chapter.
      C.   Loading yards and loading docks shall be located and buffered from
general public view, public streets, public buildings, recreation facilities,
parks, schools, places of assembly for worship, residential zoning districts
and uses, the C-3 Zoning District, and screened from all other adjoining
properties where it is determined said loading areas are considered offensive
to more restrictive uses.
      D.   All loading yards and accesses to loading yards and loading docks
shall be paved with asphaltic or Portland cement concrete pavement in
accordance with surfacing requirements set forth in this chapter.
   3.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.
      A.   A-1 Agricultural Zoning District. The minimum off-street parking
requirements for permitted principal uses and structures in the A-1,
Agricultural District are:
         (1)   Sufficient open land available for parking so that no vehicle
need be parked on any street.
      B.   R-1 Single-Family Residential Zoning District. The following are the
minimum off-street parking requirements for permitted principal uses and
structures in the R-1 Single-Family Residential District. Any use or structure
which was in existence prior to the enactment of this Zoning Ordinance and does
not conform to the minimum off-street parking requirements may be permitted to
continue current parking spaces unless the use or structure is expanded,
enlarged, or discontinued.
         (1)   Single-family dwellings: A minimum of three off-street parking
spaces shall be provided for each single-family dwelling. In addition thereto,
an additional parking space shall be provided for each commercial and
recreational vehicle, if more than three vehicles are customarily kept at the
premises by the residents thereof.
         (2)   Community meeting or recreational building: parking spaces equal
to 30 percent of capacity.
         (3)   Parks, playgrounds or playfields: five parking spaces per 10,000
feet of gross area.
         (4)   Public and parochial schools, elementary, secondary, and other
educational institutions:
            a.   Elementary and junior high schools - two spaces per employee;
15 spaces minimum.
            b.   Senior high school - two spaces per employee, plus one space
per three students.
         (5)   Cemetery, mausoleum, church, or place of worship: one space per
three seats in auditorium, including balcony.
         (6)   Country clubs, swimming pools, and golf courses: parking spaces
equal to 30 percent of capacity.
         (7)   Public library: one space per 500 gross square feet; 15 spaces
minimum.
         (8)   Funeral parlor: parking spaces equal to 30 percent of capacity.
      C.   RE-1 Single-Family Rural Estates Zoning District. The minimum
required off-street parking standards in the A-1, Agricultural District and R-
1, Low Density Residential District shall also be required in the RE-1, Single-
Family Rural Estates District.
      D.   R-2 Two-Family and R-3 Multi-Family Residential Zoning Districts.
The following are the minimum off-street parking requirements for permitted
principal uses and structures in the R-2 Two-Family Residential District and
the R-3 Multi-Family Residential District.
         (1)   One-family dwellings: A minimum of three off-street parking
spaces shall be provided for each single-family dwelling. In addition thereto,
an additional parking space shall be provided for each commercial and
recreational vehicle, if more than three vehicles are customarily kept at the
premises by the residents thereof.
         (2)   Two-family dwellings: three parking spaces per unit, including
garage space.
         (3)   Multiple-family dwellings: two parking spaces per unit. One
garage parking space may be counted as a parking space in fulfillment of the
parking requirements, provided there is no less than one open parking space for
each dwelling unit and one not reserved parking space for each ten dwelling
units. All parking spaces provided (except garages) which are intended to
satisfy the ordinance requirement must be provided without charge to the
occupants of the dwelling units to which those parking spaces are related.
Garage space rented separately from the dwelling unit cannot be used to meet
the minimum requirements of this chapter.
         (4)   Alterations and conversions of single-family dwellings into two-
family dwellings: three parking spaces per unit.
         (5)   Boarding and rooming houses: one space per unit plus one space
for manager.
         (6)   Cemetery, mausoleum, church, or place of worship: one space per
three seats in auditorium, including balcony.
         (7)   Museums, libraries, and community centers: one space per 500
gross square feet; 15 spaces minimum.
         (8)   Parks and playgrounds: five parking spaces per 10,000 feet of
gross area.
         (9)   Private non-commercial recreational areas and centers:
            a.   Country clubs, swimming pools, and golf courses - parking
spaces equal to 30 percent of capacity in persons.
            b.   Riding stables - one space per employee and one space for each
stall.
         (10)   Public and parochial schools, elementary, secondary, and other
educational institutions:
            a.   Elementary and junior high schools - two spaces per employee;
15 spaces minimum.
            b.   Senior high schools - two spaces per employee, plus one space
per three students.
         (11)   Zero lot line dwellings, including duplexes and townhouses:
three parking spaces per unit.
         (12)   Nursing and convalescent homes: one space per four beds, plus
one space per employee per shift average, plus one per doctor.
         (13)   Assisted living and retirement homes: one parking space per
unit plus one per employee.
         (14)   Child care centers and nursery schools: five parking spaces per
1,000 square feet of gross floor area.
      E.   C-1 Highway Commercial Zoning District. Following are the minimum
off-street parking requirements for permitted principal uses and structures in
the C-1 Highway Commercial District. Any business which was in existence prior
to enactment of this Zoning Ordinance and which does not conform to the minimum
off-street parking requirements may be permitted to continue current parking
spaces unless the use or structure is expanded, enlarged, or discontinued.
         (1)   Antique stores: one parking space per 1,000 square feet of gross
floor area plus one per employee.
         (2)   Artists, architectural, engineering and surveying services: one
parking space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (3)   Automotive display, sales, service and repair: one space per
1,000 square feet of floor area plus one per employee.
         (4)   Automotive paint and body shops: one space per 1,000 square feet
of floor area plus one per employee.
         (5)   Dry cleaners and laundry: one space per employee; five spaces
minimum.
         (6)   Custom cabinetry, furniture upholstery and repair: one parking
space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (7)   Clubs, lodges, rental halls, and religious organizations:
parking spaces equal to 30 percent of capacity.
         (8)   Banks, savings and loans, and other financial institutions: one
parking space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (9)   Retail or variety stores: five parking spaces per 1,000 square
feet of gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (10)   Formal wear and costume rental: one parking space per 1,000
square feet of gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (11)   Hardware stores: five parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of
gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (12)   Personal services: five parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of
gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (13)   Professional and semi-professional office buildings: five
parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (14)   Medical, dental, chiropractic, and veterinary clinics: five
spaces for each doctor or dentist plus one per employee; five spaces minimum.
         (15)   Restaurants, night clubs, cafe, tavern and catering services:
parking spaces equal to 30 percent of capacity or five per drive-thru lane,
whichever is greater.
         (16)   Public buildings owned by federal, State, County, City or other
political subdivision that are operated for the social benefit or convenience:
one space per two employees, plus one space per each 300 square feet of floor
area.
         (17)   Repair and restoration shops: one parking space per 1,000
square feet of gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (18)   Museums and libraries: one space per 500 gross square feet; 15
spaces minimum.
         (19)   Postal service (local substation of the United States) or
private parcel post delivery service: one parking space per 1,000 square feet
of gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (20)   Mini-warehousing for storage and outside storage within
fencing: one space per employee; five spaces minimum.
         (21)   Plumbing, heating and cooling sales, service and repair shops:
one space per 1,000 square feet of floor area plus one per employee.
         (22)   Hotels or bed and breakfast inns: one space per unit and one
space for employee.
         (23)   Printing, publishing and engraving: one parking space per 1,000
square feet of gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (24)   Dance or music studios: one space for each 100 square feet used
for dancing plus one per employee.
         (25)   Dwelling unit with a store or shop: off-street parking shall be
provided for each single-family attached dwelling unit in the same manner as
for detached dwelling units, except a minimum of three off-street parking
spaces shall be provided together with additional parking for each commercial
and recreational vehicle.
         (26)   Community amusements: five parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
of gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (27)   Small engine sales, service and rental: one space per 1,000
square feet of floor area plus one per employee.
         (28)   Manufacturing, assembling, compounding, processing, repairing
and packaging: one space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area plus one per
employee.
         (29)   Tool, die, machine shop, welding and metal fabrication: one
space per 1,000 square feet of floor area plus one per employee.
         (30)   Greenhouse and plant nursery: one parking space per 1,000
square feet of gross floor area plus one per employee.
         (31)   Educational center, other than elementary and secondary
schools: one space per employee plus one space per two students.
         (32)   Motel: one space per unit plus one space per employee.
         (33)   Health and fitness club, with indoor facilities only: parking
spaces equal to 30 percent of capacity in persons plus one space per employee.
         (34)   Golf courses and swimming pools: parking spaces equal to 30
percent of capacity.
      F.   C-2 Central Business Zoning District. Following are the minimum off-
street parking requirements for permitted principal uses and structures in the
Central Business District. Any business which was in existence prior to
enactment of this Zoning Ordinance and which does not conform to the minimum
off-street parking requirements may be permitted to continue current parking
spaces unless the use or structure is expanded, enlarged, or discontinued.
         (1)   Two spaces provided for each business.
      G.   C-3 Community Commercial Zoning District. The minimum off-street
parking requirements for permitted principal uses and structures in the C-
3 Community Commercial District:
         (1)   Mixed Use: For multiple use buildings and/or sites which are not
multi-tenant retail shopping centers, space for parking and storage of vehicles
shall be provided in accordance with parking requirements of each use.
         (2)   All other uses: three parking spaces per 1,000 feet of gross
floor area plus one per employee.
      H.   C-4 Professional Commerce Business Zoning District. The minimum off-
street parking requirements for permitted principal uses and structures in the
C-3 Professional Commerce Business District:
         (1)   Outpatient care facility: three parking spaces per 1,000 feet of
gross floor area plus one per doctor or dentist.
         (2)   Colleges, universities, professional schools and technical
institutes: one space for each employee plus one space per two students.
         (3)   All other uses: three parking spaces per 1,000 feet of gross
floor area plus one per employee.
      I.   I-1 Industrial Zoning District. The minimum off-street parking
requirements for permitted principal uses and structures in the I-1 General
Industrial District:
         (1)   Manufacturing and processing uses that are contained within a
building and have no exterior storage, create no offensive noise, dust, odor,
vibration or create electrical interference: one space for every two employees
plus one space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (2)   Animal hospital or kennel: one space for each employee plus one
space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (3)   Wholesaling and warehousing but not including the bulk storage
of liquid fertilizer or petroleum products under pressure: one space for each
employee plus one space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (4)   Farm implement display, sales, service and repair: one space for
each employee plus one space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (5)   Lumber yard and building material sale and storage: one space
for each employee plus one space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (6)   Truck and freight terminal: one space for each employee plus one
space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (7)   Truck display, sales, repair and storage: one space for each
employee plus one space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (8)   Grain storage bins: one space for each employee plus one space
for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (9)   Grain elevator and feed mill: one space for each employee plus
one space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (10)   Welding and repair shop: one space for each employee plus one
space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (11)   Tool, die, and machine shops: one space for each employee plus
one space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (12)   Railroads and public utilities including storage and
maintenance yards: one space for each employee plus one space for each vehicle
used by the industry.
         (13)   Contractor’s storage yard: one space for each employee plus one
space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (14)   Automobile paint and body shops: one space for each employee
plus one space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (15)   Plumbing, heating, air conditioning and sheet metal shops: one
space for each employee plus one space for each vehicle used by the industry.
         (16)   In addition to the above requirements, all uses shall provide
at least one loading space for each 10,000 square feet of floor area and one
space for every 200 square feet of sales, service or office floor space.
   4.   Surfacing Requirements.
      A.   Off Street Parking. All off-street parking and loading areas and
access roadways shall have a durable and dustless surface paved with asphaltic
or Portland cement concrete pavement in accordance with the specifications as
herein set forth. All off-street parking areas and associated driveways, access
roadways and frontage roads, except driveways for single- family residences,
shall be constructed with permanent, integrally attached six inch high curbing
or curbing of alternate height acceptable to the City (prefabricated portable
curb stops shall not be considered an acceptable alternate), and shall be so
graded and drained as to dispose of all surface water accumulation within the
area; and shall be so arranged and marked as to provide for orderly and safe
loading or unloading and parking and storage of self- propelled vehicles. The
curbing requirements may be waived if it is determined that surface drainage
can be adequately handled by other means. The minimum thickness of pavement of
the parking area shall be according to SUDAS design standards.
      B.   Driveways. Driveways for individual single-family detached or
attached townhouse style residences on private property shall be asphaltic
concrete or Portland cement concrete with minimum thickness of five inches with
a sufficiently compacted and well-drained subgrade base and not greater than 20
feet in width between the public street roadway and a point of setback five
feet from the right-of-way. Paved driveways and any associated off-street
parking areas within the front yard of a single-family detached residence shall
not occupy greater than 50 percent of the area between the building setback
line and public right-of-way, shall not provide greater than one parking space
in addition to that provided in the traveled portion of the driveway, and so
graded and drained to dispose of surface water to the street or public
designated storm water drainage facilities.
165.48 SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
    The requirement for the submittal of site plans shall apply to any proposed
development of property, except for the construction of single- family and two-
family homes on existing platted lots, and the subdivision of land in
accordance with the City’s subdivision ordinance.
   1.   Statement of Intent. To assure that commercial, industrial, multiple
family residential, and special uses in the City of Cumming are developed and
accomplished in a manner conforming to the requirements, standards, and
regulations of these ordinances, a detailed site plan shall be submitted
showing the proposed use and development of all commercial, industrial, multi-
family residential and special exceptions for approval by the City Council
after review and recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   2.   Submittal and Review Procedure. Whenever any person, firm, corporation
or other entity wishes to build or construct any use or special exceptions in
any zoning district upon any tract, lot, or parcel of land within the City of
Cumming, except one- or two-family dwellings on platted lots or buildings
within existing farmsteads, a site plan shall be submitted for approval by the
City Council after review and recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. The following procedure shall be followed as part of the site plan
review process.
      A.   All site plans shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator and
shall be drawn at a scale not less than one inch equals 100 feet. Seven full-
scale copies and two 8½ by 11-inch reduced copies of the site plan shall be
submitted with a Zoning certificate application. Prior to an official submittal
of a site plan for review by the Commission, the developer may submit a concept
plan for initial review by the Zoning Administrator for comment.
      B.   The Zoning Administrator shall refer a copy of the site plan to
pertinent City departments for their review and comment regarding the site
plan's compliance with the ordinances of the City, its effects upon the City’s
municipal utilities, public street system and conformance to this Zoning
Ordinance and all other ordinances of the City.
      C.   The Zoning Administrator shall also forward an 8½ by 11-inch copy of
the site plan to each member of the Commission. The Commission shall, after
receiving a report from the Zoning Administrator review the site plan for
conformity with the regulations and design standards contained in this chapter,
and may confer with the developer on changes deemed advisable in such site
plan.
      D.   The Commission shall review fully completed site plan applications
within 45 days of the date of submission, and shall forward its recommendation
either for approval or disapproval of the site plan to the City Council within
45 days of the date of action by the Commission.
      E.   The Commission may, in its discretion, hold a public hearing on the
site plan of the proposed development and prescribe the notice thereof and to
whom such notice shall be given.
      F.   The Council shall, upon receipt of the recommendation of the
Commission, either approve or disapprove the site plan of the proposed
development within 30 days.
      G.   No building permit for any structure within any district which a
site plan is required shall be issued until the site plan has been approved as
provided herein.
      H.   Upon final action by the Commission on any site plan, a copy of said
site plan with any required corrections, modifications, or changes in
accordance with the action of the Commission noted thereon and signed by the
Zoning Administrator, shall be filed with the City Clerk.
      I.   If the Zoning Administrator finds that any construction or proposed
construction of a development on a tract of land for which a site plan has been
approved does not substantially comply with the site plan as approved, they
shall suspend all building permits for the development and order all
construction stopped until such time as the owner of the project, or his
successors in interest, shall have provided him with proof satisfactory to him
that the site plan will be complied with. The Zoning Administrator or City
building official shall not issue a certificate of occupancy for any structure
within the development while the building permit for the development has been
suspended pursuant to this paragraph or site improvements have not been
completed in accordance with the approved site plan. Any person aggrieved by
any decision or action of the Zoning Administrator under this paragraph may
appeal such action or decision to the Council.
165.49 SITE PLAN INFORMATION.
    The site plan shall show all information needed to enable City staff,
Commission and Council to determine if the proposed development meets the
requirements of this Zoning Ordinance and other City Ordinances.
   1.   Information Required. The site plan shall include the following
information concerning the proposed development.
      A.   Names of the owner of the property, legal description of property,
point of compass, scale, and date.
      B.   Applicant’s name, address, project location, proposed land use and
present zoning, location and names of adjoining subdivisions, the numbers of
the adjoining lots therein and the names and addresses of adjoining landowners.
      C.   If the applicant is other than the legal owner, the applicant’s
interest shall be stated.
      D.   Name and address of persons who prepared the site plan.
   2.   Required Illustrations. The site plan shall clearly set forth the
following information concerning any site improvements associated with the
proposed development.
      A.   Property boundary lines, dimensions, and total area of the proposed
development.
      B.   Existing and proposed contour lines of the proposed development and
50 feet beyond the boundaries of the proposed development at intervals of not
more than two feet. If substantial topographic change is proposed, the existing
topography of the development and of the surrounding area shall be illustrated
on a separate map, and the proposed finished topography shown on the site plan.
      C.   Temporary erosion control measures and methods required by the City
and any other State or federal requirements.
      D.   The availability, location, size, and capacity of existing
utilities, and of proposed utilities.
      E.   The proposed building materials, location, size, height, shape, use,
elevation, building sign type and illustration of all building or structures in
the proposed development.
      F.   The total square footage of building floor area, both individually
and collectively in the proposed development.
      G.   Existing buildings, rights-of-way, public sidewalks, street
improvements, railroads, utility easements, drainage courses, streams and
wooded areas.
      H.   The number of dwelling units, offices, etc. as required to determine
ordinance compliance.
      I.   A vicinity sketch showing adjacent existing land uses within 250
feet of the property.
      J.   Location, number, dimensions and design of off-street parking in the
proposed development, including:
         (1)   Driveways, islands, and planters.
         (2)   Striping and curbs.
         (3)   Loading facilities.
         (4)   Type and location of lighting.
         (5)   Surface treatment.
      K.   Open spaces, yards, recreational areas, public sidewalks, walkways,
driveways, outside lighting, walls, fences, monuments, statues, and other man-
made features to be used in the landscape of the proposed development.
      L.   Facilities for the collection and disposal of garbage and trash, and
screening structures.
      M.   Walls, fences or other artificial screens to be used as buffers
shall be shown in elevation and prospective as well as plan with proposed
height and structural material to be used indicated.
      N.   Traffic considerations or utility capacities and all other
considerations pertinent to the proposed use may be requested for illustration
or statistical purposes. As part of the information required in Section
165.48, any project, in either its initial phase or determined cumulatively in
all phases such as a master plan, which contains 80 dwelling units or 1,000
average daily trips shall submit a traffic analysis which provides necessary
information to determine the effect that the project will have upon the
surrounding traffic. At a minimum the traffic analysis, which must be prepared
by a licensed traffic engineer, shall contain project trip generation,
directional distribution of project trips, traffic assignment, and capacity
analysis, including identification of congestion and turning-movement
conflicts. If congestion conflicts are identified, then solutions to remedy the
potential conflicts shall be provided.
      O.   Free standing identification signs; location, setback, dimensions,
height and illustration.
      P.   Location and type of all plants, grass, trees, or ground cover to be
used in the landscape. Landscaping to be used for screening purposes shall be
illustrated with the size and exact names of plants, shrubs or trees to be
planted clearly indicated. The planting location shall not adversely affect
utility easements or service lines. On all site plans the following
requirements shall be met:
         (1)   Implementation. The landscaping plan shall be submitted for
approval as part of site plan submittal. The landscaping plan is to show the
following information in accordance with the requirements of Section
165.29, Landscaping Required:
            a.   Location of trees and shrubs;
            b.   Size and species of trees and shrubs;
            c.   Number of each size and species of tree and shrub;
            d.   Type of ground cover and form of permanent erosion control.
         (2)   Approval of Landscaping. Landscaping is to be in place at the
time an occupancy permit is approved. Should completion of landscaping be
delayed because of the season of year, a temporary occupancy permit may be
issued if the developer posts a bond or other acceptable guarantee in the
amount of the landscaping as completed. At the developer’s option and at the
time of site plan filing they may submit a list of alternate or substitute
species from the permitted or established list to be used should the preferred
material not be available when needed and required.
         (3)   Maintenance. All landscaping, buffering and screening shall be
maintained at all times to conform to the regulations established in this
chapter. Landscaping which is not maintained in a manner consistent with this
chapter shall be replaced, as follows:
            a.   Replacement includes, but is not limited to replacing plants
damaged by insects, soil conditions, disease, vehicular traffic, vandalism, and
Acts of God;
            b.   Required landscaping shall be replaced with equivalent
vegetation if it is not living within one year of a Certificate of Occupancy;
            c.   Existing landscaping which was preserved shall be replaced
with new landscaping if it is not living within two years of a Certificate of
Occupancy;
            d.   Landscaping as part of a buffer shall be maintained as long as
the buffer is required by this ordinance; and
            e.   Replacement landscaping shall be installed (weather
permitting) or proper guarantees provided within 30 days following notification
by the Zoning Administrator that a violation of this chapter has occurred.
   3.   Design Standards. The standards of design are intended as minimum
requirements so that the general arrangement and layout of the development
requiring the site plan may be adjusted to address a variety of site
conditions.
      A.   All proposed uses for which site plans are required shall conform to
the Comprehensive Plan of the City; the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance;
the Subdivision Ordinance of the City, if applicable, and all other applicable
City ordinances and statutes and regulations of the State of Iowa.
      B.   The proposed development shall have such entrances and exits upon
public streets properly spaced and designed as are necessary for safety and the
general welfare, and shall have such interior drives as are necessary for free
movement of emergency vehicles; and shall have such pedestrian walkways as are
necessary for safety and general welfare.
      C.   The proposed development shall be designed with a proper regard to
topography, surface drainage, natural drains and streams, wooded area, and
other natural features which will lend themselves to proper, harmonious and
attractive development of the site.
      D.   The proposed development shall be designed with adequate water
mains, provisions for sanitary sewerage facilities, storm sewer management
facilities and flood control, in accordance with the ordinances and regulations
of the City and statutes and regulations of the State of Iowa, and good
engineering practice to protect the public health and welfare and not overload
any existing public utilities.
      E.   The proposed development shall be designed, and the buildings and
improvements located in such a manner as to not unduly diminish or impair the
use and enjoyment of adjoining or surrounding property and to such end shall
have such buffers, screen fences and landscaping as may be proper, and shall
not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjoining or surrounding
property.
      F.   The proposed development shall not unduly increase the public danger
of fire or diminish the public safety, and shall be designed to adequately
safeguard the health, safety, and general welfare of the public and of persons
residing and working in the development and in the adjoining or surrounding
property.
      G.   The proposed development and all structures therein shall be
designed as required by
Chapter 166, and in such a manner as to create a quality environment and to
such end shall be architecturally and aesthetically harmonious and attractive.
   4.   Amendments to Approved Site Plans. An approved site plan placed on file
may be amended with respect to location, size, design and conformity of
buildings and other improvements, provided that the amended site plan conforms
to the general use regulations, performance standards, and provisions of the
district in which located. Amended site plans shall be reviewed by the
Commission and approved by the Council.
   5.   Expiration of Approval. All site plan approvals shall expire and
terminate 365 days after the date of Council approval unless a building permit
has been issued for the construction provided for in the site plan. The
Commission and Council for reasons related to the Zoning Ordinance, the City
Comprehensive Plan or for reasons of general City health and welfare may set an
expiration and termination date at 180 days after the date of Council approval
unless a building permit has been issued for the construction provided for in
the site plan. The Council may upon written request by the developer, extend
the time for issuance of a building permit for 60 days in addition to the
termination date. In the event the building permit for construction provided
for in a site plan expires or is canceled, then such site plan approval shall
become null and void.
   6.   Filing Fees. The party or parties submitting a site plan to the City
shall pay to the City a filing fee for said site plan as established by
resolution, passed and approved by the Council.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
165.08 of this chapter and have not been included as a part of this Code of
Ordinances but have been specifically saved from repeal and are in full
force and effect.
Ordinance No. Date Adopted Ordinance No. Date Adopted
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
165.08 of this chapter and have not been included as a part of this Code of
Ordinances but have been specifically saved from repeal and are in full
force and effect.
Ordinance No. Date Adopted       Ordinance No. Date Adopted
93-1          August 10, 1992                  
98-2          August 25, 1997                  
98-3          August 25, 1997                  
2004-04       August 23, 2004                  
2005-07       July 25, 2005                    
2005-15       November 28, 2005                
2006-01       February 13, 2006                
2006-05       February 27, 2006                
2006-13       June 29, 2006                    
2007-02       May 31, 2007                     
2007-03       May 31, 2007                     
2007-04       May 31, 2007                     
2007-05       May 31, 2007                     
2007-06       May 31, 2007                     
2015-03       November 23, 2015                
2016-03       October 10, 2016                 
2016-04       October 26, 2016                 
2018-03       April 23, 2018                   
2018-05       July 9, 2018                     
2020-06       October 12, 2020                 
2021-03       September 27, 2021               
2021-06       November 22, 2021                
2022-01       February 28, 2022                
 
CHAPTER 166
ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS
 
166.01 Architectural Standards   166.07 R-2 Two-Family Residential
                                 District
166.02 Statement of Intent       166.08 R-3 Multi-Family Residential
                                 District
166.03 Architectural Performance 166.09 C-1 Highway Commercial District,
Standards                        C-2 Central Business District, C-
                                 2 Community Commercial District
166.04 Submission Requirements   166.10 C-4 Professional Commerce Business
                                 District
166.05 General Requirements      166.11 I-1 Industrial District
166.06 R-1 Single-Family and RE-
1 Single-Family Rural Estates    166.12   A-1 Agricultural District
Residential Districts
 
166.01 ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS.  
   The requirements, guidelines, and standards set forth in this chapter shall
apply to any development or redevelopment of property within the zoning
districts listed and within the City.
166.02 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
    In the interest of promoting the general welfare of the community and to
protect the value of buildings and property, the image and character of a
community is considered important. It is recognized that the community should
be visually attractive as well as economically prosperous and the manner in
which a use is accomplished is as important as the use itself. It is the intent
of these architectural standards to establish basic parameters for building
design that when followed have the effect of producing structures that preserve
and enhance building and property values, are long-lasting, resistant to
deterioration, and maintain their visual appeal over time. It is further the
intent of these standards to establish and promote a community image of
permanence, quality, authenticity, and consistency through building design. It
is not the intent of these standards to unduly restrict design freedom or apply
a particular architectural style to all structures.
166.03 ARCHITECTURAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
    As part of the submittal of a site plan for development within any of the
zoning districts and for any of the uses listed within this chapter (with the
exception of single-family and two-family dwellings), architectural plans for
buildings shall be submitted for review and approval by the City Council upon
receipt of a recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission.
166.04 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
    The applicant shall submit the following for each proposed building,
addition, or renovation subject to this chapter:
   1.   Elevations and dimensions of all sides of existing and proposed
buildings, including roof mechanical equipment, vents, chimneys, or other
projecting items above the roof line.
   2.   Elevations and dimensions of all existing or proposed solid waste and
recycling containment areas.
   3.   Detailed exterior descriptions, including type and color of all
exterior building materials, awnings, exterior lighting, mechanical screening
material, fencing, metal flashing and the like.
   4.   Detailed cut sheets of all proposed exterior light fixtures and an
exterior lighting photometric plan.
   5.   In order to aid in evaluating the exterior design, the applicant shall
submit plan views showing, if applicable, the locations of windows and doors,
major entrances, recessions and projections from the principal planes of
facades, loading docks, outdoor storage areas, and solid waste and recycling
containment areas.
   6.   Heating, air conditioning and ventilating and electrical equipment
heights, locations and screening materials.
   7.   Exterior building and finish material samples and color pallets.
   8.   Other information as required.
166.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the City’s ability
to approve designs and exterior materials different than those described herein
as part of a planned unit development (PUD).
   2.   All buildings and additions thereto shall be subject to the standards
of this chapter according to land use classes and zoning districts as described
herein.
   3.   Buildings shall be subject to the following requirements for the
application of exterior finish materials and other design elements:
      A.   Classes of Materials. For the purpose of this chapter, materials
shall be divided into Class 1, Class 2, Class 3 and Class 4 categories as
follows:
         Class 1 materials:
         •   Fired clay brick laid up in a masonry wall system
         •   Natural stone laid up in a masonry wall system
         •   Glass
         •   Copper panels
         •   Other comparable or superior materials
         Class 2 materials:
         •   Integrally-colored, specialty concrete block such as textured,
burnished block or split-face block, or concrete brick
         •   Thin veneer brick (adhered)
         •   Manufactured or cast stone (adhered)
         •   Textured architectural concrete panels
         •   Masonry stucco
         •   Other comparable or superior materials
         Class 3 materials:
         •   Water-managed Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS)
         •   Fiber-cement board or panels, irrespective of form
         •   Decorative opaque panels designed as exterior building finish
         •   Ornamental metal
         •   Other comparable or superior materials
         Class 4 materials:
         •   Vinyl siding or panels, irrespective of form or thickness
         •   Standard Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS)
         •   Smooth or scored concrete block
         •   Smooth concrete tip-up panels
         •   Ceramic
         •   Glass block
         •   Wood
         •   Other comparable or superior materials
      B.   Coverage. Buildings shall incorporate classes 1, 2, 3, and 4
exterior finish materials in the following manner:
         (1)   Primary materials shall be those covering at least five percent
of a building’s façade area.
         (2)   Façade area shall be the total exterior wall area of all
vertical or near-vertical faces of a building four feet in width or greater
when viewed in elevation. Façade area shall be calculated to exclude the wall
area resulting from minor projections and recessions from the predominant wall
plane less than four feet in depth. Façade area shall be calculated to include
the area of parapets, cornices, and similar wall extensions and trim. All
garage doors are excluded from façade calculations.
         (3)   Any garage door proposed for any structure shall be integrated
into the façade so as not to become a prominent element of the dwelling.
         (4)   The mix of selected exterior finish materials shall be
distributed throughout the exterior of a building unless the City agrees that
consolidating certain materials on more visible locations provides the most
positive architectural appeal to the general public.
         (5)   Expansions of less than 50 percent of the floor area of the
existing building may use the same or superior materials as the existing
structure.
         (6)   A distinctly different color of fired clay brick may be
considered as an additional Class 1 material. However, minor blended color
variations shall not be considered as a separate material.
         (7)   Brick and stone exterior finishes shall not be painted.
         (8)   No EIFS shall be permitted within the lower three feet of any
building wall façade.
      C.   Length of Facade. No façade shall have a length exceeding 40 feet
uninterrupted by one or more of the following features:
         (1)   Projections or recessions in the wall plane at least two feet in
depth.
         (2)   Change in material texture or masonry pattern.
         (3)   Patterns of columns, piers, ribs or pilasters, or equivalent
elements that subdivide the wall.
         (4)   Change in fenestration pattern.
      D.   Fenestrations. For all office and retail buildings, at least one
street-facing building façade and the façade containing the main building
entry, if different from the street façade, shall consist of no less than 30
percent glass fenestrations (windows and full glass doors) on the first level.
      E.   Frontage on Retail Buildings. All retail buildings, whether single
or multi-tenant, greater than 50,000 square feet in gross floor area, shall
incorporate Class 1 or Class 2 materials on no less than 80 percent of the
façade area of all building facades that face or have frontage along a public
street.
      F.   Proportional Design. All buildings shall be proportioned and
designed so as to have a visual top, middle, and base.
      G.   Screening. The following peripheral features of buildings shall be
screened from view from any adjoining residential properties and all public
street rights-of-way:
         (1)   Rooftop equipment.
         (2)   Roof access ladders and walkways.
         (3)   HVAC equipment.
         (4)   Utility meters.
         (5)   Utility conduits, pipes, and cables.
         (6)   Outdoor storage areas.
         (7)   Loading areas, berths, or docks.
         (8)   Areas and equipment for trash and/or recycling collection or
compaction.
   Screening shall be integral and consistent with the overall design of the
building, utilizing the same materials and proportions of materials wherever
practical. Metal cabinets used to enclose and protect rooftop mechanical
equipment shall not substitute as screening. All trash and recycling dumpsters
and bins must be enclosed on all sides with no less than a fence or masonry
screen wall and include opaque gates. Buildings and sites shall be designed and
oriented to screen all loading docks, overhead doors, and loading areas from
public view from any adjoining residential properties, park and school sites,
and public street rights-of-way.
      H.   Lighting. All exterior building and site lighting shall be downcast
in nature and exterior light fixtures must possess sharp, cut-off qualities to
prevent off-site glare. Lighting levels from a site cannot exceed one foot-
candle at the property line.
      I.   Fuel Pump Island Canopies. The following standards shall apply to
all fuel pump island canopies. Canopies may be attached to the principal
structure or stand-alone. Attached canopies shall meet the building setback
requirements of the primary structure. Detached canopies shall have a minimum
front yard setback of 15 feet. The maximum canopy heights shall be 20 feet and
must provide no less than 14 feet of clearance under the canopy. All under
canopy lights shall be flush mounted.
      J.   Vehicle Drive-Thru and Drive-In Facilities. The following standards
shall apply to all vehicle drive-thru and drive-in facilities. Drive-thru
structures and components shall be incorporated into the overall design of the
building; window service and menu boards shall be screened from view of public
streets. With the exception of free-standing ATMs, stand-alone drive-thru
canopies shall be prohibited.
166.06 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY AND RE-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RURAL ESTATES RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
   Design elements apply to any permitted development.
   1.   Compatibility. Homes must be compatible with neighboring properties,
friendly to the streetscape, and in scale with the lots upon which they are to
be constructed.
   2.   Front Façade. Homes shall have doors and windows which face the street
and a distinct entry feature. Any garage door proposed for any structure shall
be integrated into the façade so as not to become a prominent element of the
dwelling.
   3.   Variation. The same building plan shall not be utilized on consecutive
lots and there should be horizontal and vertical variation within each unit’s
front building face and between the front building faces of all adjacent units/
structures to provide visual diversity and individual identity to each unit.
   4.   Materials. Homes must incorporate at least three primary Class 1, Class
2, Class 3 or Class 4 materials on 100 percent of their façade area.
   5.   Trim. Appropriately-scaled trim of at least three inches in width shall
be included around all window and door openings, building corners, roof lines,
and façade material transitions.
   6.   Outdoor Elements. Each dwelling unit shall have its own functional
porch, patio, or deck.
   7.   Fencing. Fences and garden walls shall not be constructed of galvanized
chain-link material. Openings to fences and walls shall be gated with a gate
that is constructed with a similar style and material as the surrounding area.
   8.   Trash Containers. Trash containers shall be screened from view.
   9.   Landscaping. See Section
165.29 of this Code of Ordinances, Green Space and Buffer Regulations, for
required Landscaping Regulations.
   10.   Nonresidential Uses. Any building used for a permitted nonresidential
use in an R District shall be designed and constructed with architecture, use
of materials and exterior colors acceptable to the City and compatible with the
residential uses within the neighborhood.
   11.   Screening. Adequate treatment or screening of negative aspects of
buildings (loading docks, loading areas, outside storage areas, garbage
dumpsters and HVAC mechanical units) from any public street and adjoining
properties shall be required. Buildings shall not be designed or oriented to
expose loading docks, nonresidential use overhead doors or loading areas to the
public.
166.07 R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.  
   The architecture of two-family buildings, including exterior colors, shall
be acceptable to the City and accomplished in a manner compatible with
adjoining residential uses in the neighborhood. Design elements apply to any
permitted development.
   1.   Compatibility. Homes must be compatible with neighboring properties,
friendly to the streetscape, and in scale with the lots upon which they are to
be constructed.
   2.   Front Façade. Homes shall have doors and windows which face the street
and a distinct entry feature. Any garage door proposed for any structure shall
be integrated into the façade so as not to become a prominent element of the
dwelling.
   3.   Variation. The same building plan shall not be utilized on consecutive
lots. There should be horizontal and vertical variation within each unit’s
front building face and between the front building faces of all adjacent units/
structures to provide visual diversity and individual identity to each unit.
The wall façade of each individual dwelling unit must have a change in the wall
plane and/or a change in the exterior material type, texture, and/or color to
differentiate it from the adjoining unit.
   4.   Materials. Homes must incorporate at least three primary Class 1, Class
2, Class 3 or Class 4 materials on 100 percent of their façade area.
   5.   Trim. Appropriately-scaled trim of at least three inches in width shall
be included around all window and door openings, building corners, roof lines,
and façade material transitions.
   6.   Outdoor Elements. Each dwelling unit shall have its own functional
porch, patio, or deck.
   7.   Fencing. Fences and garden walls shall not be constructed of galvanized
chain-link material. Openings to fences and walls shall be gated with a gate
that is constructed with a similar style and material as the surrounding area.
   8.   Trash Containers. Trash containers shall be screened from view.
   9.   Landscaping. See Section
165.29 of this Code of Ordinances, Green Space and Buffer Regulations, for
required Landscaping Regulations.
   10.   Nonresidential Uses. Any building used for a permitted nonresidential
use in an R District shall be designed and constructed with architecture, use
of materials and exterior colors acceptable to the City and compatible with the
residential uses within the neighborhood.
   11.   Screening. Adequate treatment or screening of negative aspects of
buildings (loading docks, loading areas, outside storage areas, garbage
dumpsters and HVAC mechanical units) from any public street and adjoining
properties shall be required. Buildings shall not be designed or oriented to
expose loading docks, nonresidential use overhead doors or loading areas to the
public.
166.08 R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The architecture of multiple- family buildings, including exterior colors,
shall be acceptable to the City and accomplished in a manner compatible with
adjoining residential uses in the neighborhood. Design elements apply to any
permitted development.
   1.   Horizontal Articulation. Horizontal articulation should define a base,
middle and top for each articulated façade element. This can be accomplished
with window composition, ornament, and special features.
   2.   Façade. Homes shall have doors and windows which face the street and a
distinct entry feature. Vertical elements such as piers, pilasters, trim,
window mullions, and bay windows should be used to compose the façade. Façade
shall be articulated with vertical change significant enough to create a sense
of depth and shadow. Any garage door proposed for any structure shall be
integrated into the façade so as not to become a prominent element of the
dwelling.
   3.   Additional Façade Features. Open porches, stoops and bay windows, where
constructed, shall encroach into the area between the build-to-line and the
front property line.
   4.   Variation. The same building plan shall not be utilized on consecutive
lots and there should be horizontal and vertical variation within each unit’s
front building face and between the front building faces of all adjacent units/
structures to provide visual diversity and individual identity to each unit.
   5.   Materials. Homes must incorporate at least three primary Class 1 or
Class 2 materials, together composing at least 40 percent of the façade area.
Class 3 and Class 4 materials in aggregate shall not exceed 60 percent of the
façade area. Class 4 materials shall not exceed 10 percent of the façade area.
   6.   Trim. Appropriately-scaled trim of at least three inches in width shall
be included around all window and door openings, building corners, roof lines,
and façade material transitions.
   7.   Outdoor Elements. Each dwelling unit shall have its own functional
balcony or defined patio area (for first floor units). Elevated open walkways
along the exterior of the building are prohibited.
   8.   Landscaping. See Section
165.29 of this Code of Ordinances, Green Space and Buffer Regulations, for
required Landscaping Regulations.
   9.   Screening. Adequate treatment or screening of negative aspects of
buildings (loading docks, loading areas, outside storage areas, garbage
dumpsters and HVAC mechanical units) from any public street and adjoining
properties shall be required. Buildings shall not be designed or oriented to
expose loading docks, nonresidential overhead doors or loading areas to public
street view.
   10.   Nonresidential Uses. Any building used for a permitted non-residential
use in an R District shall be designed and constructed with architecture, use
of materials and exterior colors acceptable to the City and compatible with the
residential uses within the neighborhood.
166.09 C-1 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT, C-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT, C-
3 COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
    Design elements apply to any permitted development.
   1.   Horizontal Articulation. Horizontal articulation should define a base,
middle and top for each articulated facade element. This can be accomplished
with window composition, ornament, and special features.
   2.   Vertical Articulation. Vertical elements should be used to compose
street facing facades. Each element can be distinguished by not less than three
of the following changes:
      A.   Material
      B.   Color
      C.   Architectural style
      D.   Height
      E.   Window types
      F.   Façade composition
      G.   Storefront or entry type
   3.   Windows and Storefronts. Ground floor shall be articulated with
commercial storefronts alternating with entries to upper floors, or a rhythm of
openings. Blank walls are not permitted along public facades. Windows of
vertical proportion with ratio of up to 60 percent solid to void in linear
measurement; a wide variety of window types including groups of tall windows to
maximize glass areas.
   4.   Special Elements. The following elements may be applied to façade
compositions: special roof elements, coining/belt courses, cornices, corner
towers, entrance features, awnings, pilasters, bays.
   5.   Materials. Buildings must incorporate at least three primary Class 1 or
Class 2 materials, together composing at least 80 percent of the façade area.
Class 3 and Class 4 materials in aggregate shall not exceed 20 percent of the
façade area. Class 4 materials shall not exceed 10 percent of the façade area.
   6.   Trim. Except where architecturally unsuitable, appropriately-scaled
trim of at least three inches in width shall be included around all window and
door openings, building corners, roof lines, and façade material transitions.
   7.   Asphalt Shingles. If used, must be laminate style.
   8.   Screening. Adequate treatment or screening of negative aspects of
buildings (loading docks, loading areas, outside storage areas, garbage
dumpsters and HVAC mechanical units) from any public street and adjoining
properties shall be required. Buildings shall not be designed or oriented to
expose loading docks, nonresidential overhead doors or loading areas to public
street view.
   9.   Landscaping. See Section
165.29 of this Code of Ordinances, Green Space and Buffer Regulations, for
Landscaping Requirements.
166.10 C-4 PROFESSIONAL COMMERCE BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   Design elements apply to any permitted development.
   1.   Horizontal Articulation. Horizontal articulation should define a base,
middle and top for each articulated facade element. This can be accomplished
with window composition, ornament, and special features.
   2.   Vertical Articulation. Vertical elements should be used to compose
street facing façades. Each element can be distinguished by not less than three
of the following changes:
      A.   Material
      B.   Color
      C.   Architectural style
      D.   Height
      E.   Window types
      F.   Façade composition
      G.   Storefront or entry type
   3.   Windows and Storefronts. Ground floor articulated with commercial
storefronts alternating with entries to upper floors, or a rhythm of openings.
Blank walls are not permitted along public facades. Windows of vertical
proportion with ratio of up to 60 percent solid to void in linear measurement;
a wide variety of window types including groups of tall windows to maximize
glass areas.
   4.   Special Elements. The following elements may be applied to façade
compositions: special roof elements, coining/belt courses, cornices, corner
towers, entrance features, awnings, pilasters, bays.
   5.   Materials. Buildings must incorporate at least three primary Class 1 or
Class 2 materials, together composing at least 85 percent of the façade area.
Class 3 materials in aggregate shall not exceed 15 percent of the façade area.
Class 4 materials shall not exceed 10 percent of the faç
   6.   Trim. Except where architecturally unsuitable, appropriately-scaled
trim of at least three inches in width shall be included around all window and
door openings, building corners, roof lines, and façade material transitions.
   7.   Asphalt Shingles. If used, must be laminate style.
   8.   Screening. Adequate treatment or screening of negative aspects of
buildings (loading docks, loading areas, outside storage areas, garbage
dumpsters and HVAC mechanical units) from any public street and adjoining
properties shall be required. Buildings shall not be designed or oriented to
expose loading docks, nonresidential overhead doors or loading areas to public
street view. All screen or buffer walls shall be constructed of fired clay
brick with mortar joints and a veneer depth of no less than three inches.
   9.   Landscaping. See Section
165.29 of this Code of Ordinances, Green Space and Buffer Regulations for
Landscaping Requirements.
166.11 I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
    Architectural design, use of materials and exterior colors for construction
of any building shall be reviewed as part of the site plan proposal in the I-
1 Districts and shall be acceptable to the City and recognize the use of
materials within buildings in the neighborhood. Although it is not the purpose
of this section to dictate, specify, or restrict the use of building materials
and structural standards, the use of appropriate exterior materials and colors
to enhance the appearance of a building is encouraged by the City. Loading
areas, loading docks, storage areas, and garbage dumpsters shall be located,
screened or oriented to reduce their exposure to public street view. See
Section
165.29 of this Code of Ordinances, Green Space and Buffer Regulations for
Landscaping Requirements.
166.12 A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   Architectural design, use of materials and exterior colors for construction
of any building shall be reviewed as part of the site plan proposal in the A-
1 Districts and shall be acceptable to the City and recognize the use of
materials within buildings in the neighborhood. Loading areas, loading docks,
storage areas, and garbage dumpsters shall be located, screened or oriented to
reduce their exposure to public street view. Any buildings built in this
district that are primarily residential in nature shall adhere to the R-1 and
RE-1 standards. See Section
165.29 of this Code of Ordinances, Green Space and Buffer Regulations for
Landscaping Requirements.
CHAPTER 167
SIGN REGULATIONS
 
167.01 Title               167.06 General Regulations
167.02 Statement of Intent 167.07 Signs Not Requiring a Permit
167.03 Jurisdiction        167.08 Signs Permitted by Zoning District
167.04 Definitions         167.09 Removal of Obsolete Signs
167.05 Sign Area Formulas  167.10 Signs Prohibited in All Zoning Districts
 
167.01 TITLE.
    This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Sign
Regulations Ordinance” of the City of Cumming, Iowa, and shall be referred to
herein as “this ordinance.”
167.02 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   The purpose of this ordinance is to permit such signs that will not, by
reason of their size, location, construction or manner of display, endanger
life and limb, confuse or mislead traffic, obstruct vision necessary for
traffic safety, or otherwise endanger the public morals, health and safety; and
further, to regulate such permitted signs in a way to promote development that
is not detrimental to the property values and aesthetics of the City. Signs
allowed by this ordinance may be erected and maintained only as on premises
signs except as permitted elsewhere in this chapter.
167.03 JURISDICTION.
    The lawful use of a sign existing at the time of the enactment of this
ordinance may be continued although such use may not conform to the regulations
herein. For those signs permitted before the adoption of these regulations,
such signs shall be classified as “permitted nonconforming” structures. No sign
permit shall be issued for any lot, tenant, or development after the effective
date hereof and not in substantial conformity with the provisions of this
title. Nor shall any sign, except as hereinafter specified, be erected,
substantially improved, converted, enlarged, moved, or structurally altered
without conforming to the provisions of this ordinance.
167.04 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this ordinance certain terms and words are hereby
defined. Words used in the present tense shall include the future, the singular
number shall include the plural and the plural number includes the singular;
the word “shall” be mandatory, and the word “may” be permissive; the word
“person” includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
estate, company, or corporation as well as an individual.
   1.   “Allied business” means the same or similar business with common name
such as new and used auto sales.
   2.   “Area identification sign” means a freestanding sign which identifies
the name of a commercial or industrial complex consisting of three or more-
businesses.
   3.   “Awning” means an attached canopy or similar structure designed to
provide cover for entrances, walkways, and windows.
   4.   “Balloon sign” means an inflatable balloon or device used to draw
attention to a business or product.
   5.   “Banded areas” means that portion of a building generally located along
the front which is constructed for purposes of attaching building signs in a
consistent and coordinated manner.
   6.   “Bench sign” means a sign attached to or a part of a sitting bench.
   7.   “Business sign” means a sign which directs attention to the business or
profession conducted on the premises. A “For Sale,” “For Lease” or
“Information” sign is deemed a business sign. In order to be considered a
business sign rather than an advertising sign, all of the gross surface area of
the sign must pertain to the major functions or name of the business, the trade
names of primary products or goods manufactured or sold on the premises.
   8.   “Changeable sign” means a sign or portion of a sign with separate inset
letters, pictures, and/or symbols which can easily be removed and which are
periodically changed. See also “reader board sign.”
   9.   “Construction sign” means a sign used temporarily at the construction
site identifying the contractors, financer, supplier, and/or builder.
   10.   “Copy area” means the total area of the smallest three geometric
figures that can be drawn around the sign cabinet or message on a sign.
   11.   “Digital advertising sign” means an off-site sign utilizing digital
message technology, capable of changing the static message or copy on the sign
electronically. A digital advertising sign shall contain static messages only,
and shall not have animation, movement, or the appearance or optical illusion
of movement, of any part of the sign structure, design, or pictorial segment of
the sign. Each static message shall not include flashing, scintillating
lighting or varying of light intensity. A digital advertising sign shall not be
considered a flashing sign, changeable sign or reader board sign.
   12.   “Double face sign” means a sign displaying identical information on
opposite sides.
   13.   “Driveway median” means a raised median intended to divide or channel
vehicular traffic.
   14.   “Flashing sign” means any illuminated sign on which the artificial
light is not maintained both stationary and constant in intensity and color at
all times when a sign is in use excluding electronic reader board signs and
electronic video signs.
   15.   “Freestanding sign” means a pylon or ground sign that is not part of
the principal structure.
   16.   “Gasoline pump island canopy” means a structure that provides shelter
over gasoline pump islands.
   17.   “Grade of sign” means the lowest point of elevation of the finished
surface of the ground, paving, or sidewalk within the area between the sign and
a line five feet from the sign.
   18.   “Ground sign” means a sign, which is not a pylon sign, erected upon or
supported by ground and not attached to any building.
   19.   “Identification sign” means a sign which bears the name and/or address
of the occupant of the building.
   20.   “Illuminated sign” means any sign which has characters, letters,
figures, design, or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as
part of the sign proper.
   21.   “Informational sign” means a sign, not intended to be viewed from off-
site, that identifies building functions and is attached thereto, such as car
wash bay or drive-in window.
   22.   “Major anchor/center sign” means a specially designed, masonry clad,
freestanding sign used to identify single-tenant buildings that are in excess
of 100,000 square feet or multi-tenant centers in excess of 150,000 square feet
in building size.
   23.   “Menu board” means a sign listing drive-up items in conjunction with a
business serving customers in a car.
   24.   “Moving device” means a device which moves or rotates to attract
attention for advertising purposes.
   25.   “Multi-occupancy building” means a building designed to be occupied by
two or more separate businesses.
   26.   “Multiple Tenant Building, Horizontal” means a single story building
designed for the collection of two or more tenants located side by side with
each tenant separated by demising walls.
   27.   “Multiple Tenant Building, Vertical” means a multiple story building
designed for the collection of two or more tenants located side by side and/or
on separate floors of the building.
   28.   “Non-commercial sign” means any sign that presents a message that is
political, philosophical, social, or personal and does not advertise or sell a
service, product, or other commercial undertaking.
   29.   “Obsolete signs” means such signs that advertise an activity,
business, product or service no longer conducted on the premises on which the
sign is located.
   30.   “Pennant” means a small flag used for decorative purposes or to
attract attention.
   31.   “Political sign” means a temporary sign which displays information
pertaining to an upcoming governmental district, City, County, State, or
national election.
   32.   “Portable sign” means a sign so designed as to be movable from one
location to another and not permanently attached to the ground or to any
immobile structure. A portable sign may consist of a panel supported by legs or
wheels and/or a mobile structure such as a trailer, panel truck, semi-truck
trailer, or other device whose primary function during a specific time period
is to be stationary and used as a sign.
   33.   “Promotional sign” means a temporary sign which shall not exist for
more than 30 days which promotes civic events or promotions limited to City-
recognized activities, events, and/or celebrations.
   34.   “Raceway” means a channel for enclosing electrical wires and/or other
equipment used for the operation of illuminated signage or mounting non-
illuminated signage including but not limited to letters, logos, or symbols;
that is not larger than the letters, logos, or symbols nor creates a background
for the letters, logos, or symbols and is colored to match the building’s
exterior materials.
   35.   “Reader board sign” means a sign with separate inset electronic
panels, letters, and/or symbols or changeable copy which can be easily removed
and which are or is periodically changed. Electronic message boards are
considered reader board signs if a single message is displayed for not less
than seven seconds and the text messages are in amber or a similar color with
equal or lesser intensity colored lights. See also “changeable sign.”
   36.   “Real estate sign” means a sign intended to aid on the sale, rental,
or lease of real property.
   37.   “Rear identification sign” means a sign located adjacent to the rear
entrance to individual businesses to clearly identify the location for
“deliveries.” This identification sign shall not be considered in computing the
maximum permitted sign area for a business.
   38.   “Revolving sign” means a sign which rotates at a constant rate of
revolutions per minute.
   39.   “Service sign” means a sign identifying rest rooms, public telephone
facilities, first aid stations, emergency shelters and other similar public
service facilities.
   40.   “Setback for a sign” means the shortest distance between a property or
public right-of-way line and the surface or main supporting structure of a
sign, whichever is closest.
   41.    “Sign area” means the surface area of a sign shall be computed as
including the entire area within a regular geometric form or combinations of
regular geometric forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and
including all of the elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural
members not bearing advertising matter shall not be included in computation of
the surface area, except where such frames and structural members are used as
an integral primary or subsidiary portion of the graphic, literal, or numerical
display, such as forming a picture frame to facilitate continuity or providing
contrasts to emphasize the intended purpose of the sign.
   42.   “Sign, abandoned” means any sign face remaining in place for a period
of 30 days or more which no longer advertises an activity, business, product,
or service available on the premises on which the sign is located.
   43.   “Sign, association identification residential development” means a
sign identifying the name of a residential complex, or neighborhood development
included on a landscape feature including planter beds, fountains, decorative
walls or fences.
   44.   “Sign, bag” means a temporary cover made of a cloth or canvas
material, used to alter the message of an obsolete sign until such time as it
is replaced with a new sign.
   45.   “Sign, banner” means a temporary sign composed of lightweight material
either enclosed in a rigid frame or not enclosed, secured or mounted to a
structure or post on two or more edges.
   46.   “Sign, billboard” as used in this ordinance, billboard shall include
all structures, regardless of the materials used in the construction of the
same, that are erected, maintained or used for public display of posters,
painted signs, wall signs (whether the structure be placed on the wall or
painted on the wall itself), and pictures or other pictorial reading matter
which advertise a business or attraction which is not carried on or
manufactured in or upon the premises upon which said signs or billboards are
located.
   47.   “Sign, building” means any sign attached to or erected against the
wall or painted on the surface of the wall of a building, with the exposed face
of the sign in a plane parallel with a plane of said wall. This definition
includes fascia/wall signs.
   48.   “Sign, directional” means a sign, other than warning and regulatory
signs, which is located on private property for the purposes of controlling all
modes of traffic.
   49.   “Sign, directory” means a sign containing the name of a building,
complex or center and two or more identification signs or panels of the same
size, color and general design, limited to one identification sign per
occupant.
   50.   “Sign, electric changeable copy” means a sign that is characterized by
changeable copy, letters, symbols or numerals to be modified from time to time
by electronic or mechanical devices which sign is integrated as a part of a
permitted monument sign. Electric Changeable Copy signs may not be used to
display commercial messages related to products or services that are not
offered on the premise.
   51.   “Sign, exterior” means a sign that directs attention to a business,
profession, service, product or activity sold or offered upon the premises
where such a sign is located. An exterior sign may be attached flat against a
building or structure, or projecting out from a building or structure.
   52.   “Sign, fascia/wall” means a single-faced building or wall sign that is
directly attached to and parallel to its supporting wall.
   53.   “Sign, free standing or post” means any sign erected or affixed in a
rigid manner to one or more poles, posts or the ground, and which carries any
advertisement strictly incidental and subordinate to a lawful use of the
premises on which it is located, including signs, or sign devices indicating
the business transacted, services rendered or goods sold or produced on the
premises by an occupant thereof.
   54.   “Sign, home occupation” means no sign, other than one unlighted sign
not over two square foot in area, attached flat against the dwelling and
displaying only the occupant’s name and occupation, shall advertise the
presence or conduct of the home occupation.
   55.   “Sign, institutional bulletin board” means an on premises sign
containing a surface area upon which is displayed the name of a religious
institution, school, library, public building, community center or similar
institution and the announcement of its services or activities.
   56.   “Sign, interstate” means a sign on a property abutting an interstate
right-of- way that is oriented to the interstate.
   57.   “Sign, marquee” means a sign attached to and contained within the
perimeter of the face or valance of a marquee.
   58.   “Sign, memorial sign” means memorial signs or tablets, names of
buildings and date of erection when engraved into any masonry surface or when
constructed of bronze or other incombustible materials. Memorial signs shall
not contrast in color from the material of which said sign is constructed.
   59.   “Sign, monument” means a ground sign which is mounted in or on a
monument that does not have any exposed pole or pylon which includes the name
of the development, business or businesses located on the premises.
   60.   “Sign, multiple tenant monument” means a sign intended to provide
identification to a multiple tenant commercial development of more than 25,000
square feet of gross building area in which more than three tenants occupy
individual space within the building and which is under single ownership,
management and control.
   61.   “Sign, off site” means any sign advertising any interest of any person
or firm, products, accommodations, services or activities not provided on the
premises in which the sign is placed.
   62.   “Sign, project identification” means a sign which refers to the
construction, lease, hire, or sale of a building, premises, or subdivision
lots.
   63.   “Sign, projecting” means a double faced building or wall sign
projecting at right angles to its supporting wall.
   64.   “Sign, roof” means a sign attached upon or above a roof or parapet of
a building.
   65.   “Sign, special event” means a sign advertising a special event that is
sponsored by the City.
   66.   “Sign, temporary” means a temporary sign is any sign not permanently
attached to the ground, wall or building, and intended to be displayed for a
short and limited period of time.
   67.   “Sign” means any device designed to inform or attract the attention of
persons not on the premises on which the sign is located; provided, however,
that the following shall not be included in the application of the regulations
herein:
      A.   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post office box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or
other identification of premises not having commercial connotations;
      B.   Flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion;
      C.   Legal notices; identification, informational or directional signs
erected, approved or required by governmental bodies;
      D.   Integral, decorative or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts or moving lights;
      E.   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property,
and bearing no advertising matter; not exceeding four square feet in area.
   68.    “Story” means that portion of a building included between the upper
surface of any floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that
the topmost story shall be that portion of a building included between the
upper surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above.
   69.   “Traffic directional sign” means a sign erected by a public agency for
the purpose of guiding vehicle and pedestrian traffic in a safe and convenient
manner and which bears no advertising animation.
   70.   “Video sign” means a sign containing electronic panels capable of
producing full color video images and intended for this purpose to display full
motion video similar to television or motion picture images
   71.   “Visibility triangle” means a triangle area established at the
intersection of streets and driveways protected from encroachments greater than
30 inches tall and intended to protect the line of site of drivers,
pedestrians, and bicyclists.
167.05 SIGN AREA FORMULAS.
    The area of a sign is determined by the Zoning Administrator, using actual
dimensions where practical or approximate dimensions when irregularity of a
sign shape warrants. The area of each sign type is to be measured with either
Formula A or Formula B as noted below.
Formula A: The sign area is the sum of the area of two contiguous rectangles,
squares or circles that enclose the extreme points or edges of all copy, logos
and symbols of said sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/11c97a6e64f2cb14a2209df70d625bcb22dfa3f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.png]
 
Formula B: The sign area is the area of one rectangle, square or circle that
encloses the extreme points or edges of all areas where copy may be placed on a
sign. This area does not include structural or architectural features of the
sign where copy will not be located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/11c97a6e64f2cb14a2209df70d625bcb22dfa3f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.png]
 
167.06 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   1.   Permit Process. Except as provided in
167.07, a sign permit, signed by the owner and tenant, and approved by the
administrative official, shall be required before the erection, construction,
alteration, placing or locating of all signs conforming with this ordinance.
   2.   Plans. A copy of plans and specifications shall be submitted to the
administrative official for each sign regulated by this ordinance. Such plans
shall show sufficient details about size of the sign, location and materials to
be used and such other data as may be required for the administrative official
to determine compliance with this ordinance.
   3.   Maintenance. All signs shall be maintained in a good state of repair,
including, but not limited to, the structural components, the lighting if any,
the portion attaching the sign to the ground or structure, and the surface
features.
   4.   Non-Conforming Signs. Where a sign exists at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this ordinance that could not be built under the terms
of this ordinance by reason of restrictions on area, use, height, setback, or
other characteristics of the sign or its location on the lot, such sign may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
      A.   No such sign may be enlarged or altered in a way that increases its
non-conformity; however, reasonable repairs and alterations may be permitted.
      B.   Should such sign be destroyed by any means to an extent of 50
percent or more of its replacement cost at time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
   5.   Electric Signs. All electric signs shall be manufactured to meet UL
specifications and be approved by the administrative official in accordance
with the City Electrical Code.
      A.   Electric signs shall be watertight, with service holes to provide
access to each compartment with fitted waterproof covers.
      B.   Any electrical equipment or apparatus of a sign, which causes
interference with radio or television reception, shall not be allowed.
   6.   Wind Pressure and Dead Load Requirements. All signs and sign structures
shall be designed and constructed to withstand a wind pressure as regulated by
the building code of the City, and shall be constructed to receive dead loads
as required in the building code and/or other ordinances of the city. Temporary
signs shall be required to be securely anchored to prevent any and all motion.
   7.   Illumination. Signs shall be illuminated by internal fixtures or
externally with a constant level of light maintained throughout the sign.
Reflectors shall be provided with proper glass or plastic lenses concentrating
the illumination upon the area of the sign as to prevent glare upon the street
of adjacent property. Illumination shall be no greater than one- foot candle in
intensity when measured from the property bounds, and all ground lighting shall
be concealed from view by landscape plantings.
   8.   Emissions Prohibited. No sign shall emit audible sound, noticeable
odor, smoke or other visible matter.
   9.   Visibility at Intersections in Any District. On any corner lot in any
district, no sign shall be erected, placed, or allowed to be situated in such a
manner as materially to impede vision between a height of two and one-half and
10 feet above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets in the area
bounded by the street lines of such corner lots and a line joining points along
said street lines 25 feet from the point of intersection of right-of-way lines.
   10.   Obscene Matter Prohibited. No obscene, indecent or immoral matter
shall be displayed on any sign.
   11.   Traffic Hazards. It shall be illegal for any sign to interfere with,
obstruct the view of, or be of such design which may be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal, or device; no sign shall imitate an official
traffic sign or include the words “stop”, “look”, “caution”, or any other word,
phrase, symbol, or character in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead, or
confuse motorists.
   12.   Sign Administration.
      A.   Compliance with Chapter. No sign shall be erected, installed,
constructed, or painted in the City, except in compliance with this chapter and
unless it shall conform to and meet the requirements of this chapter.
      B.   Enforcing Officer. The Department Director shall be the enforcing
officer of this chapter.
      C.   Permit Applications. The application for a sign permit shall be made
upon forms provided by the City and shall state or have attached thereto the
following information:
         (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant and owner of
the sign and, in the case of multi-tenant buildings, the name, address, and
telephone number of owner of the building and/or site;
         (2)   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which
the sign is to be attached or erected;
         (3)   Position of the sign or other advertising structures in relation
to nearby buildings or structures;
         (4)   A scaled drawing or photograph of the plans and specifications
and method of construction or attachment to the building or in the ground;
         (5)   Copy of stress sheets and calculations showing the structure is
designed for dead load and wind velocity in the amount required by the City’s
Building Code and if requested by the City Building Official;
         (6)   Name of person erecting the structure; and
         (7)   Other information as the City may require.
      D.   Permit Fees. Permit fees for signs shall be as established by City
Council Resolution.
      E.   Variances Authorized. To provide reasonable flexibility in the sign
regulations, the Board of Adjustment may approve a variance for a sign
otherwise not permitted by these regulations where an exception would not be
inconsistent with the intent of the sign regulations.
      F.   Variances; Conditions to Granting. No variance shall be granted
unless the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall find that either of the conditions
outlined in paragraph (1) and (2) exists:
         (1)   All of the following requirements must be met:
   `         a.   Special conditions exist which are peculiar to the land,
structure, and building involved and which are not applicable to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district;
   `         b.   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from
the actions of the applicant;
   `         c.   A literal interpretation of the provisions of these
regulations would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same district and the terms of these sign regulations;
   `         d.   That granting the variance requested would not confer on the
applicant any special privilege for a use not common to other lands, structures
or buildings in the same district; and
   `         c.   The proposed use of the property shall have an appearance
that will not have an adverse effect upon adjacent properties and there will be
no deterrence to development of vacant land.
         (2)   Any proposed signage beyond the maximum square footage permitted
would have the primary function of providing a public service.
      G.   Variances; Requests, Fees. All requests for variances shall be made
in writing to the City on the form provided by the City and the request shall
include the fee specified in the City Council Resolution. All information
required when applying for a sign permit, as outlined in this chapter, shall be
required before the request for a variance is considered by the Board of
Adjustment.
   13.   Appeal. Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the
administrative official to approve or disapprove a sign permit, as provided by
this ordinance, may appeal such decision to the Board of Adjustment as provided
by Section
165.43 of the Cumming Code of Ordinances.
167.07 SIGNS NOT REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   Signs hereinafter designated shall be permitted in all zoning districts.
   1.   Real Estate. Signs advertising the sale, rental, or lease of the
premises or part of the premises on which the signs are displayed. One non-
illuminated sign, not to exceed eight square feet, shall be permitted on each
premise. Such signs shall not extend higher than four feet above grade level or
be closer than 10 feet to any property line unless located on the wall of a
building. Such signs shall be removed within seven days after the disposition
of the premises.
   2.   Construction. Signs identifying the architect, engineer, contractor or
other individuals involved in the construction of a building and such signs
announcing the character of the building enterprise or the purpose for which
the building is intended but not including product advertising. Sign
advertising for new incoming businesses will be allowed provided that a
business has been issued a building permit. One non-illuminated sign not to
exceed 50 square feet shall be permitted per street frontage. Such sign shall
not extend higher than 10 feet above grade level or be closer than 10 feet to
any property line unless located on the wall of a building on the premises or
on a protective barricade surrounding the construction. Such signs shall be
removed within one week following completion of construction.
   3.   Political Campaign Signs. Signs announcing candidates seeking public
political office or pertinent political issues. Such signs shall be confined to
private property and shall be removed within one week following the election to
which they pertain.
   4.   Street Banners. Banners advertising a public event provided that
specific approval is granted under regulations established by the City Council.
   5.   Seasonal Decorations. Signs pertaining to recognized national holidays
and national observances.
   6.   Directional Signs. Such signs shall be permitted on site in conjunction
with any multiple family residential development, mobile home residential
district, commercial, office or industrial development to direct on site
vehicles to specific buildings, building entrances and exits, drive through(s)
or drop box(es).
      A.   Ground Directional Signs. Such signs shall be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
         (1)   Signs shall not exceed six square feet in area and shall not be
higher than four feet above grade.
         (2)   Are utilized only when necessary for traffic directional or
other informational purposes.
         (3)   Do not display logos or other commercial messages.
      B.   Building Directional Signs. Such signs shall be permitted provided
the following conditions are met:
         (1)   Signs shall not exceed eight square feet in area.
         (2)   Must be affixed to principal building or accessory structure
canopy.
         (3)   Do not display logos or other commercial messages.
   7.   Personal Announcement and Celebration. Signs announcing births,
anniversaries, weddings and similar celebrations.
   8.   Special Events. Signs advertising or announcing a special event.
      A.   Such signs shall be limited to one sign per event.
      B.   Such signs may be erected 14 days prior to the special event and
shall be removed within two days following the special event.
      C.   Such signs shall be setback a minimum of five feet from all right of
way lines.
   9.   Home Occupation Signs. Home occupation signs shall be permitted
provided such signs shall not be larger than two square feet in sign area.
   10.   Garage Sale Signs. Garage sale signs shall be limited to six square
feet in area. Such signs shall be removed within 24 hours of the event they
advertise. No sign shall be placed on public property.
   11.   Public Signs. Signs of a non-commercial nature and in the public
interest, erected by or upon the order of a public officer in the performance
of public duty, such as safety signs, danger signs, trespassing signs, traffic
signs, memorial plaques, signs of historical interest and other similar signs,
including signs designating hospitals, libraries, schools and other
institutions or places of public interest or concern.
   12.   Temporary Directional Signs Placed by City. Signs may be erected by
the City of Cumming of a size not greater than four feet by four feet informing
the public of means of access to areas within the City of Cumming to which
normal access has been denied due to highway construction.
   13.   Integral Signs. Signs for churches or temples, or names of buildings,
dates of erection, monumental citations, commemorative tablets and other
similar signs when carved into stone, concrete or other building material or
made of bronze, aluminum, or other permanent type of construction and made an
integral part of the structure to which they are attached.
   14.   Institutional Bulletin Boards.
167.08 SIGNS PERMITTED BY ZONING DISTRICT.
   1.   Fascia/Wall Signs.
      A.   Sign Area Allowed. One square foot of sign area may be erected for
every lineal foot of a building front that has a setback of 250 feet or less
from the lot line. For a setback of 251 feet to 500 feet, one and one/half
square feet of sign area may be erected per lineal foot of building front. For
a setback greater than 500 feet, two square feet of sign area may be erected
per lineal foot of building front. Setbacks shall be measured from the front of
said building. The front of said building shall be that wall that contains the
main entry. If the front of a building faces away from the street frontage, a
wall sign may be erected on the rear or sidewall of said building at a rate of
one half the lineal footage of said wall. At no time shall more than two walls
be used to compute allowable signage.
      B.   Number of Signs Allowed. A maximum of two signs will be allowed per
business with a maximum of one sign per wall. Sign size will be limited by the
regulations stated above.
      C.   Letters, symbols, and logos. Under no circumstances will a letter,
symbol or logo dimension greater than six feet be allowed, except any use that
occupies in excess of 100,000 square feet of building area shall be allowed to
have individual letters not to exceed eight feet in height.
      D.   No sign shall project out from the building more than 18 inches.
      E.   No sign shall project above the roofline or parapet where one
exists.
   2.   Multiple Tenant Fascia/Wall Signs.
      A.   Sign Area Allowed, Horizontal Multiple Tenant Buildings. For
horizontal multiple tenant buildings, that have a setback of 250 feet or less
from the lot line, one square foot of sign area may be erected for every linear
foot of tenant frontage measured from demising wall to demising wall (see
Figure 1). For a setback of 251 feet to 500 feet, one and one/half square feet
of sign area may be erected per lineal foot of tenant frontage measured from
demising wall to demising wall. For a setback greater than 500 feet, two square
feet of sign area may be erected per lineal foot of tenant frontage measured
from demising wall to demising wall. Setbacks shall be measured from the front
of said building which faces a public street. In the case that a tenant is not
oriented towards a building frontage and desires to place a sign on the
elevation that faces a building frontage, the maximum allowable signage shall
be one square foot of sign area per linear foot of building frontage for all
with a maximum of three total tenant signs on the building frontage (see Figure
2).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/11c97a6e64f2cb14a2209df70d625bcb22dfa3f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.png]
 
Figure 1: Horizontal Multiple Tenant Building Oriented Towards Street Frontage
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/11c97a6e64f2cb14a2209df70d625bcb22dfa3f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-31.png]
 
Figure 2: Horizontal Multiple Tenant Building not oriented towards street
frontage. Tenants A, B and C would be permitted to place a sign along the
public street frontage provided the total overall signage for the three
together was not greater than 80 square feet.
      B.   Sign Area Allowed, Vertical Multiple Tenant Buildings. For vertical
multiple tenant buildings, that have a setback of 250 feet or less from the lot
line, the maximum square footage for all tenant signs shall be one square foot
of sign area for every linear foot of building frontage (See Figure 3). For a
setback of 251 feet to 500 feet, one and one/half square feet of sign area may
be erected per lineal foot of building frontage. For a setback greater than 500
feet, two square feet of sign area may be erected per lineal foot of building
frontage (see Figure 3). Setbacks shall be measured from the front of said
building which faces a public street.
         (1)   Number of Signs Allowed. A maximum of two signs will be allowed
per business with a maximum of one sign per wall. Sign size will be limited by
the regulations stated above.
         (2)   Letters, symbols, and logos. Under no circumstances will a
letter, symbol or logo dimension greater than six feet be allowed, except any
use that occupies in excess of 100,000 square feet of building area shall be
allowed to have individual letters not to exceed eight feet in height.
         (3)   Design. All signage on a multi-tenant building shall complement
the character and architecture of the building and be consistent in design and
construction.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/11c97a6e64f2cb14a2209df70d625bcb22dfa3f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-33.png]
 
Figure 3: Vertical Multiple Tenant Building Signage
   3.   Monument Signs.
      A.   Number of Signs. One freestanding monument identification sign shall
be permitted for each lot, or one sign for each 300 feet of street frontage,
whichever is greater, subject to provision hereinafter specifically set out. A
minimum distance of 200 feet shall separate each permitted monument sign.
Businesses that have frontage on more than one street will be permitted the use
of a second sign. In no case shall more than two monument signs be permitted
for each lot.
      B.   Setback Requirement. The minimum setback required for monument signs
shall be 15 feet. All signs shall have a side setback not less than the height
of the sign.
      C.   Sign Area. The total area of a sign shall be the actual square
footage of one sign face. Double faced signs may be permitted with the maximum
square footage permitted on each side. The maximum sign area of a monument sign
shall not exceed 60 square feet. The copy area shall be limited to a single
geometric shape unless it emulates the building form or feature.
      D.   Sign Size. The maximum height shall be 15 feet and the maximum width
of the sign shall be 12 feet.
      E.   Sign Bases. All sign bases shall be designed and constructed of
materials that are similar to those used on the principal building. Sign bases
shall be dominated with materials of permanency and strength, such as brick,
stone, block, or other masonry or concrete materials and shall be consistent
with the materials used in the construction of the building. Metal skirting
around a supporting pole shall not be considered an acceptable sign base
material.
      F.   Monolithic or Columnar Line. Monument signs shall have a monolithic
or columnar line that maintains essentially the same profile from grade to top.
The width of the sign base shall be a minimum of 80 percent of the entire width
of the sign.
      G.   Vertical Distance. The vertical distance between the sign face and
the base shall not be greater than six inches.
      H.   Signs that are composed of wood material or signs with metal as its
primary material and any sign surface with letters painted upon a panel or wall
area shall be prohibited.
   4.   Multiple Tenant Monument Signs. Monument signage in planned commercial
development with at least three tenants, and over 25,000 square feet of gross
building square footage is intended to provide primary development
identification within a planned commercial unit. Additionally, such signage may
provide advertisement to tenants of the development. In lieu of any other
permitted monument sign, a multiple tenant sign shall be allowed on lots or
tracts under single ownership, management or control, provided the following
conditions are met:
      A.   Number of Signs. One freestanding multiple tenant monument
identification sign shall be permitted for each lot, or one sign for each 300
feet of street frontage, whichever is greater, subject to provision hereinafter
specifically set out. A minimum distance of 200 feet shall separate each
permitted multiple tenant monument sign. Developments that have frontage on
more than one street will be permitted the use of a second sign. In no case
shall more than two multiple tenant monument signs be permitted for each lot.
      B.   Setback Requirement. The minimum setback required for monument signs
shall be 15 feet. All signs shall have a side setback not less than the height
of the sign.
      C.   Sign Area. The total area of a sign shall be the actual square
footage of one sign face. Double faced signs may be permitted with the maximum
square footage permitted on each side. The maximum sign area of a multiple
tenant monument sign shall not exceed 100 square feet. The copy area shall be
limited to a single geometric shape unless it emulates the building form or
feature.
      D.   Sign Size. The maximum height shall be 15 feet and the maximum width
of the sign shall be 12 feet.
      E.   Sign Bases. All sign bases shall be designed and constructed of
materials that are similar to those used on the principal building. Sign bases
shall be dominated with materials of permanency and strength, such as brick,
stone, block, or other masonry or concrete materials and shall be consistent
with the materials used in the construction of the building. Metal skirting
around a supporting pole shall not be considered an acceptable sign base
material.
      F.   Monolithic or Columnar Line. Monument signs shall have a monolithic
or columnar line that maintains essentially the same profile from grade to top.
The width of the sign base shall be a minimum of eighty percent of the entire
width of the sign.
      G.   Vertical Distance. The vertical distance between the sign face and
the base shall not be greater than six inches.
      H.   Signs that are composed of wood material or signs with metal as its
primary material and any sign surface with letters painted upon a panel or wall
area shall be prohibited.
   5.   Association Identification Signs, Residential Development. Association
identification signs shall be permitted for the purpose of establishing a
common neighborhood or complex identification when there exists an owners’
association that provides for the maintenance of the sign and structures. Such
signs shall be extensively landscaped with trees, plantings, and natural
features. Such signs may incorporate fountains, fences, or similar features.
Association identification sign area shall not exceed 40 square feet. The
minimum setback required of association identification signs shall be height of
the sign. The maximum height of the sign shall be eight feet. Association
identification signs shall be dominated with materials of permanency and
strength, such as brick or stone.
   6.   Association Identification Signs, Commercial and Industrial
Development. A commercial or industrial development, which has a minimum of 40
acres, may erect one association identification sign with the name of the
building, complex or center provided there exists an owners’ association that
provides for the maintenance of the sign and structures. Such signs shall be
extensively landscaped with trees, plantings and natural features. Such signs
may incorporate fountains, fences, or similar features. Association
identification sign area shall not exceed 60 square feet. The minimum setback
required of association identification signs shall be height of the sign. The
maximum height of the sign shall be ten feet. Association identification signs
shall be dominated with materials of permanency and strength, such as brick or
stone.
   7.   Signs for Churches, Schools and Public Facilities. Signs for churches,
schools and other public uses shall be regulated in accordance with section
167.08 of this chapter.
   8.   Interstate Corridor Signs. In addition to monument signs as permitted
under this ordinance, one interstate monument sign shall be allowed on lots or
tracts under single ownership, management or control that have frontage
abutting the interstate right of way provided the following conditions are met:
      A.   Interstate sign identifies the name of an office park, commercial
park, industrial park, or single tenant user. Interstate/freeway signs must
have brick or stone base that preserves largely the same profile from
interstate/road grade to bottom edge of sign. The sign face shall be no further
than six inches away from the base.
      B.   Size of sign. The total area of a sign shall be actual square
footage of one sign face. Dual faced signs may be permitted with the maximum
square footage permitted on each side. The maximum size of an interstate/
freeway sign shall not exceed 120 square feet.
      C.   The maximum height of an interstate/freeway sign shall not exceed 30
feet above interstate/road grade with the minimum height set at 15 feet. Refer
to monument sign regulations if the sign height falls under the minimum height
stated above. The minimum brick or stone allotment for the base of the sign
shall equal or exceed 40 percent of the width of the sign with the minimum base
width of three feet.
      D.   Minimum interstate sign setback shall be 15 feet from interstate
right of way.
      E.   Signs that are composed of wood material or signs with metal as its
primary material and any sign surface with letters painted upon a panel or wall
area shall be prohibited.
      F.   Distance from Other Signs. An interstate monument sign must be at
least 100 feet from any other such interstate monument sign, or other monument
sign.
      G.   Permits. All applicable permits and regulatory approvals as required
by law shall be obtained from the State and Federal government, including the
DOT prior to the issuance of a permit from the City.
   9.   Electric Changeable Copy. Electric changeable copy shall be allowed on
monument signs within certain commercial districts. A maximum of 24 square feet
or 50 percent of the maximum sign area, whichever is less, may be dedicated to
electric changeable copy, provided the following conditions are met:
      A.   Electric changeable copy may change no more than one time in a five
minute interval and shall not include any flashing, flowing, alternating or
blinking lights. Time and temperature may be included as a component of
electric changeable copy or permitted in lieu of electric changeable copy and
shall not be restricted by the requirements of the five minute interval as
specified above.
      B.   Electric changeable copy shall be integral to and a part of an
approved monument sign.
      C.   Sign content should be limited to on-premise advertising or public
announcements.
      D.   Electric changeable signs shall be required to automatically adjust
intensity related to ambient light levels.
   10.   Temporary Signs. The purpose of this section is to allow temporary
signage for specified land uses and events of a limited duration. The minimum
setback required is five feet from the property line.
      A.   Project Identification Signs, provided such signs do not exceed 50
square feet in area referring to the construction, lease, hire, or sale of a
building, premises, or subdivision lots; which sign shall refer to property on
which the sign is located. Such signs shall be limited to two signs for each
plat listed in any residential district. Such signs shall be limited to one
sign for each lot listed in any commercial or industrial district.
      B.   Such sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are sold or
leased or construction has been completed.
      C.   Business Advertising, Opening and Closing. Banners, not exceeding 32
square feet, A- Frame signs, balloons, posters and signs advertising an opening
or closing of business subject to approval by the administrative official. Such
signs may only remain in place for four weeks and no more than one time per
year per opening or closing.
      D.   Business and Public Advertising, Special Events. Banners, not
exceeding 32 square feet, A-Frame signs, balloons, posters and signs
advertising a special event subject to approval by the administrative official.
Such signs may only remain in place for two weeks and no more than four times
per year. Such signs events shall be permitted to be consecutive.
   11.   Bag Signs. Such signs shall be permitted for businesses wishing to
cover existing signage until the replacement sign is manufactured. Bag signs
shall be made of a canvas or cloth material and may be displayed for a period
no longer than 45 days.
   12.   Window Signs. All window signs, whether temporary or permanent, shall
be restricted to no more than 50 percent of the size of the applicable window
area and shall be located on the interior side of the window. Typical window
signs include, but are not limited to: painted signage, vinyl signage, neon
beverage signs, sale and product ads, etc.
   13.   Agricultural Identification Signs. Signs, not exceeding ten square
feet in area, identifying the premises or indicating the product grown or
material and equipment used on the premises.
   14.   Building Signs; Location on Building. Building signs shall be
permanently affixed to buildings according to the following requirements:
      A.   Prior to issuance of a sign permit, the owner of the building shall
designate a signage plan for all sides of single- or multi-occupant buildings.
The signage plan shall include the maximum height and width of signs,
materials, and colors to be used on signs and the location and dimensions of
the sign area. All building signs shall be affixed to a building wall, within
the designated sign area, and shall not exceed the allowable dimensions of this
chapter. All signs proposed by building owners or tenants shall adhere to the
requirements outlined in the signage plan for the building.
      B.   The sign locations designated shall be located no higher than the
top of the parapet walls or the overhang of the roof.
      C.   In multi-story buildings, no signs shall be permitted above the
ceiling of the first floor, except a sign may be allowed on the second floor of
a multi-story building provided that the second floor is the top floor or has
an exterior entrance; and except as provided in subsection two below.
      D.   Primary signs shall be placed on the side of the building where the
main entrance is located. In buildings with individual entrances, business
identification signs shall be placed within ten feet of the main entrance to
each business. Signs on the exterior of an enclosed mall shall be located near
entrances closest to the business location. Sign locations for each tenant
shall be assigned and identified in the signage plan.
      E.   Additional building or business identification signs are permitted
under the following conditions:
         (1)   The owner/agent shall submit a master signage plan containing
the following information:
            a.   A dimensioned site plan and elevations of the building or
buildings to be included in the master sign plan;
            b.   Computation of the maximum total sign area, the maximum area
for individual signs, the height of the signs, and the number of free-standing
signs allowed in the plan under this chapter; and
            c.   An accurate indication on the site plan of the proposed
location of each present and future sign of any type.
         (2)   The maximum number of signs affixed to a building by each
business within the building shall be controlled through the master sign plan.
         (3)   Additional lighted signs are allowed on a side of a building
which abuts business or industrially zoned property or a public street, except
where the side of the building faces an adjacent public street which abuts
residentially zoned property. Signs proposed to be located on the building face
abutting a residentially zoned property must be approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission as a part of the Sign Plan review.
         (4)   The wall of a building where additional signs is located shall
have wall materials and/or exterior colors similar to the main entrance wall.
         (5)   In multi-occupant buildings, additional signs shall be affixed
to the building at the location identified in the master signage plan.
   15.   Multi-Story Building Signs. For multi-story buildings, in all zoning
districts, no signs attached to the building, temporary or permanent, shall be
permitted above the first floor or the second floor if it is the top floor or
has an exterior access; except for the following:
      A.   Buildings of three stories or more, located in a commercial or
industrial district, shall be permitted additional building signs in addition
to any signs otherwise permitted by this chapter.
      B.   The additional building signs shall be a maximum of two signs with
each sign not to exceed two square feet of sign area for each 1,000 square feet
of gross floor area of the building.
      C.   The two additional building signs shall not be located upon the same
side of the building.
      D.   The two additional building signs shall be similar in size, scale,
and material.
      E.   The two additional building signs shall not extend above the highest
outside wall or below the fourth floor of the building.
      F.   The two additional building signs shall not extend across more than
40 percent of the width of the side of the building upon which it is located or
40 percent of the height for vertical signs.
      G.   The additional building signs shall only be permitted after approval
by the Cumming Planning and Zoning Commission.
   16.   Freestanding Signs; Pylon or Ground Sign.
      A.   Freestanding signs throughout the City of Cumming shall be ground
signs.
      B.   The base or support structure for freestanding signs shall
complement the design of the building to which it is accessory by incorporating
materials such as brick, stone, decorative block, or similar substantial
materials used in the construction of the building. The base of ground signs
shall be a minimum of two feet in height in all zoning districts. The sign area
shall include all of the supporting structure. The copy area shall not exceed
75 percent of the sign area.
      C.   The supporting structure shall be constructed with the width equal
to or greater than the sign. When allowed, modified pylon signs shall have a
width of base not less than 40 percent of the width of the sign structure
supported by the base.
      D.   All signs shall be constructed in such a manner and of such material
that they shall be safe and substantial, conforming to the design requirements
of the adopted building code of the City of Cumming.
   17.   Major Anchor/Center Signs.
      A.   Major Anchor Signage. One major anchor/center sign may be permitted
to identify tenants or building occupants for a center in excess of 100,000
square feet, subject to paragraph (C)(3) below.
      B.   Shopping Center Signage. Two major anchor/center signs may be
permitted for a center in excess of 150,000 square feet, subject to the
provisions of paragraph (C)(3) below.
      C.   All major anchor/center and shopping center sign structures are
subject to the following criteria:
         (1)   The signs shall be the only freestanding signs permitted for the
business or center. Signs may be placed on any lot within the planned unit
development or subdivision provided the sign applicant controls the land by
easement or title.
         (2)   The sign structure exterior face shall be encased in the same
style, color, and approved exterior material used on the face of the principal
building. This material shall be concentrated between the finished grade and 42
inches above the grade.
         (3)   The sign shall be set back a minimum of 10 feet from the
property line, sidewalk/trail easement or public street right-of-way line.
Signs may be no closer than 250 feet to the nearest freestanding sign on the
same side of the right-of-way, or closer than 50 feet to a corner intersection
of two right-of-way lines.
         (4)   The maximum height of the sign structure shall be 30 feet above
finished grade along Interstate Highway right-of-way and 25 feet in all other
locations. Architectural design details, similar to the design of the principal
building, may extend five feet above the maximum height of the sign. Sign copy
area shall not exceed 100 square feet per side of the sign, two sides maximum.
         (5)   All signage shall have individual, internal backlit letters and
symbols.
         (6)   Landscaping plans for the area around the base of the sign shall
be completed and reviewed as part of the sign permit approval process.
   18.   Gasoline Pump Island Signs.
      A.   Gasoline pump island canopies shall be entitled to two signs in
addition to those otherwise permitted on the principal structure.
      B.   Canopy signs shall not exceed 10 feet in length or 20 square feet
each and shall not be placed on the same side of the canopy.
      C.   Lettering on the signs shall not exceed two feet in height or the
average height of the letters on the sign attached to the principal structure,
whichever is less.
      D.   Canopy signs shall be placed in a manner that will allow a six-inch
minimum border between the top, bottom, and sides of a canopy face. The sign
area is determined by measuring the text only. Stripes or colors do not
contribute to the sign area computation.
   19.   Second Ground Signs. A second ground sign may be allowed when all of
the following conditions are met.
      A.   The lot must be in commercial or industrial zoning classification.
      B.   The lot must be a through lot with double street frontage, or a
corner lot with street frontage on three sides.
      C.   The second ground sign must be located on the side of the lot
abutting the minor or interior roadway.
      D.   The ground sign must meet the size, height, and setback requirements
for the primary ground sign permitted on the site.
      E.   The ground sign shall be in addition to all other permitted ground
signs.
   20.   Other Signs. The following additional signs are permitted under this
section, subject to the restrictions thereof, and are intended to serve the
business needs of advertising an initial grand opening for a business and other
special promotions, sales or events. Portable signs, banners, streamers, and/or
balloon signs are permitted, upon the issuance of a permit from the City, in
commercial, industrial, and institutional zoning districts for the purposes of
promoting a grand opening, special sales, or events.
      A.   One non-lighted portable sign or balloon sign not exceeding 32
square feet per plane (side) and additional banners and/or streamers located
upon the site of the grand opening, promotions, sales, or events shall be
allowed at any time of the year for any period of time for any given event so
long as the aggregate time that any and all of these “other signs” are present
at the business does not exceed 30 days in any one calendar year. Said “other
signs” shall not be located within five feet of any property line. A permit
issued by the City will include a fee established by resolution of the City
Council which shall be based upon each occurrence of the signage described
herein.
      B.   A small portable 2 x 3-foot unlighted freestanding sign may be
placed adjacent to the building at or near the entrance to the business,
intending to only serve to advertise to pedestrian traffic at the building.
This sign shall not occupy parking spaces or block sidewalks or walkways. This
sign would be calculated as a part of the allowable building signage and once
permitted would be allowed to be used for an unlimited time period within the
calendar year. The City shall issue a 12-month permit and reserves the right to
refuse the permit if there is abuse of this section or complaints regarding
this signage are received.
   21.   Menu Boards. Menu boards are permitted under the following conditions:
      A.   A maximum of two menu boards per drive-through lane shall be
permitted on a parcel of land with a restaurant providing drive-up window
service.
      B.   The menu board shall be a maximum of 30 square feet in area and may
be in addition to any other signs permitted by this chapter.
      C.   The menu board shall be single-sided and oriented in such a manner
so that the sign provides information to the patrons using the drive-through
facility only, and does not provide supplemental advertising to pass-by
traffic.
      D.   The menu board signage shall be completely enclosed within one sign
area.
      E.   Order confirmation signage no greater than one square foot and
incorporated into the drive-through speaker pedestal shall not be calculated as
part of the menu board signage area. Order confirmation signage greater than
one square foot shall be incorporated into menu board and calculated as part of
said board’s sign area.
   22.   Video Signs. Video signs are permitted under the following conditions:
      A.   Video signs shall only be allowed as a component of a modified pylon
sign and shall not exceed 50 percent of the allowable copy area.
      B.   Video signs shall be required to automatically adjust in intensity
related to ambient light levels.
      C.   The City shall issue a 12-month permit after review and approval of
the Planning and Zoning Commission and reserves the right to refuse the
extension of the permit in the case of abuse of the applicable requirements
herein.
   23.   Marquees, Awnings and Canopy Signs. The term “sign” in this section
applies to a marquee, awning and canopy accompanied by lettering or a logo,
when projecting from a wall of a building. The area of the letters or logo
encompassing the sign message incorporated upon the marquee, awning or canopy
shall be applied toward the maximum building sign area permitted for the use in
that zoning district.
Table 167.08 Signs Permitted by Zoning District
Sign Type Number Allowed Sign Area Minimum Maximum Height Design    Permitted
                                   Setback                Standards Districts
Sign Type                       Number     Sign     Minimum    Maximum Design      Permitted
                                Allowed    Area     Setback    Height  Standards   Districts
                                           1 sq.
                                           ft. per  0 to 250
                                           lineal   feet                           A-1
                                           foot of                                 (schools,
                                           frontage                                churches and
                                           1.5 sq.                                 public
                                2 per      ft. per  251 to 500                     facilities),
Fascia/Wall                     business;  lineal   feet       N/A                 C-1, C-2
                                1 per wall foot of                                 (subject to
                                           frontage                                Sec. 167.08
                                           2 sq.                                   (5), C-3, I-
                                           ft. per  over 500                       1
                                           lineal   feet
                                           foot of
                                           frontage
                                1 per lot                              To be       A-1
                                or 1 sign  60                          constructed (schools,
                                per 300    square                      of the same churches and
                                feet of    feet on  15 feet            materials   public
                                frontage   each of  from all           present on  facilities),
Monument                        2 per lot  two      property   15 feet the         C-1, C-2
                                for lots   sides;   lines.             principal   (subject to
                                with two   side                        building    Section
                                street     must be                     and subject 167.08(5),
                                frontages  parallel                    to Section  C-3, I-1
                                                                       167.08(3)
                                1 per lot                              To be       C-1, C-3, I-
                                or 1 sign  100                         constructed 1
                                per 300    square                      of the same Building
                                feet of    feet on  15 feet            materials   must be
                                frontage   each of  from all           present on  minimum
Multi-tenant Monument           2 per lot  two      property   15 feet the         25,000
                                for lots   sides;   lines              principal   square feet
                                with two   sides                       building    and include
                                street     must be                     and subject three
                                frontages  parallel                    to Section  tenants
                                                                       167.08(4)
                                                                       To be
                                                                       constructed
                                           40                          of brick,
                                           square                      stone, or
                                           feet on                     similar
                                1 per      each of                     material    All
                                developmen two      height of  8 feet  approved as Residential
                                t entrance sides;   the sign           a part of   Districts
                                           sides                       the plans
                                           must be                     for a
                                           parallel                    development
                                                                       and subject
                                                                       to Section
Association Identification                                             167.08(6)
Signs                                                                  To be
                                                                       constructed
                                           60                          of brick,   All
                                           square                      stone, or   commercial
                                           feet on                     similar     and
                                1 per      each of                     material    Industrial
                                developmen two      height of  10 feet approved as Districts.
                                t          sides;   the sign           a part of   Development
                                           sides                       the plans   must be a
                                           must be                     for a       minimum of
                                           parallel                    development 40 acres.
                                                                       and subject
                                                                       to Section
                                                                       167.08(7)
                                           120
                                           square                      To be
                                           feet on  15 feet            constructed
                                           each of  from               of brick,   Commercial
Interstate Corridor Signs       1 per lot  two      interstate 30 feet stone or    Districts
                                           sides;   right-of-          similar     Only
                                           sides    way                materials.
                                           must be
                                           parallel
                                           24
                                           square
                                           feet on
                                           each of
                                1 per lot  two                         Electronic
                                integrated sides or 15 feet            change of
Electric Changeable Copy        into a     50% of   from all   N/A     copy        C-1, C-3
                                monument   the      property           subject to
                                sign       maximum  lines              Section
                                           sign                        167.08(9)
                                           area;
                                           sides
                                           must be
                                           parallel
                                                    5 feet             Sign
                                                    from all           allowed for All
Temporary Signs – Opening and 1 per      32       property           four        Commercial
Closing                         business   square   lines or   N/A     consecutive and
                                           feet     affixed to         weeks per   Industrial
                                                    the                year        Districts
                                                    building
                                                    5 feet             Sign
                                                    from all           allowed for All
Temporary Signs – Special     1 per      32       property           two         Commercial
Events                          business   square   lines or   N/A     consecutive and
                                           feet     affixed to         weeks -     Industrial
                                                    the                four times  Districts
                                                    building           per year
                                           Not more                    Sign must
                                           than 50%                    be on the   Commercial
Window                          Undefined  of the   N/A        N/A     inside of   Districts
                                           total                       the window  Only
                                           window                      area.
                                           area
 
167.09 REMOVAL OF OBSOLETE SIGNS.
   Any obsolete sign now or hereafter existing shall be taken down and removed
by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the building or land
upon which such sign may be found within 30 days after written notification
from the Zoning Administrator, and upon failure to comply with such notice
within the time specified in such order, the building inspector is hereby
authorized to cause removal of such sign, and any expense thereto shall be paid
by the owner of the building or structure to which such sign is attached.
167.10 SIGNS PROHIBITED IN ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   1.   Painting Directly on Exterior Walls. Signs shall not be painted
directly on any exterior building surface but shall be on a separate frame.
Signs, letters, and symbols may be attached directly to a wall by adhesive or
mechanical means. A special use permit is required for any exceptions.
   2.   Paper Signs. There shall be no paper cardboard or similar signs,
notices, or flyers pasted, tacked, or otherwise affixed to the exterior wall or
window of any building.
   3.   Revolving Beacons, Sequential Flashers, Flashing Signs and all Similar
Devices. There shall be no use of revolving beacons, sequential flashers, or
similar devices.
   4.   Portable or Movable Signs. There shall be no use of a sign so designed
as to be movable from one location to another, such as (but not limited to)
changeable message signs, reader boards, trailer, panel truck or semi-truck
trailer, or other device whose function is to be stationary and serve as a sign
except those that are specifically allowed by this chapter.
   5.   Overhanging Signs. No permanent or temporary signs shall be upon or
overhang the public right-of-way or the boundary of adjacent property except
traffic signs erected by the City, County, or State except for signs in special
areas as authorized by the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council.
   6.   Open House, For Sale, Garage Sale Signs. Open house, for sale and
garage sale signs, and the like may not be placed within street rights-of-way,
easements, roadway surface, sidewalks, medians, and decorative surfaces, or
within 300 feet of major arterial street intersections. Any sign so placed is a
nuisance and traffic hazard and is hereby determined to be in violation of the
sign regulations.
   7.   Advertising or Billboard Signs Prohibited. No sign which directs
attention to a business, commodity, service, or entertainment shall be placed
or located within any street rights-of-way. No sign shall be on property other
than the premises on which the business, commodity, service, or entertainment
is located.
   8.   Moving Lights. Signs which incorporate in any manner any flashing,
pulsating, rotating, beacons, or moving lights.
   9.   Banners. Banners, pennants, spinners, and streamers, except as
specified in the Temporary Sign provisions.
   10.   String Lights. String lights used in connection with a commercial sign
for commercial purposes, other than Christmas decorations used from November 1
to January 15 on a temporary basis.
   11.   Hazardous Sign. Any sign or sign structure which:
      A.   Is structurally unsafe, or
      B.   Constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation or abandonment, or
      C.   Is not kept in good repair, or
      D.   Is capable of causing electrical shocks to persons likely to come in
contact with it.
   12.   Traffic Hazard. Signs that constitute a traffic hazard.
   13.   Obstructions. Signs that constitute an obstruction so as to prevent
free ingress or egress through any door, window or fire escape.
   14.   Prohibited Attachment. No sign or other advertising structure of any
kind shall be attached to a standpipe or fire extinguisher.
   15.   Obscene Matter. Signs that display obscene, indecent or immoral matter
that illustrates or states specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities.
   16.   Roof Signs.
   17.   Pole Signs.
   18.   Signs Projecting over Public Right-of-Way. It is unlawful to erect or
maintain any sign on over, or above any land or right-of-way.
   19.   Discontinued Use. On-premises signs that advertise an activity,
business, product, or service no longer offered or conducted on the premises on
which the sign is located for a period of more than six months after such
activity, business, product, or service has ceased being offered or conducted.
   20.   High Intensity or Glaring Lights. High intensity lights, strobe
lights, or rotating beams shall be prohibited outside of a building or visible
from the outside of a building in all zoning districts except when otherwise
legally displayed as emergency lights or warning lights.
   21.   Conflicting Signs. Signs with a format which resembles or conflicts
with traffic signs or signals.
   22.   Unlawful Signs. Any sign unlawfully installed, erected or maintained
in violation of this chapter.
   23.   Vehicle Signs. Any vehicle sign, not normally used in the day to day
operations of a business, parked in such a way to draw attention of people from
a public place or street
   24.   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs except those that are
specifically allowed by this chapter.
   25.   Portable Signs. Commercial signs that are not permanently anchored or
secured to either a building or the ground.
   26.   Off Premise Signs on Public Property. Off premise signs located on
public property that is being used for public purposes except as specifically
provided elsewhere in this ordinance.
   27.   Off-Premise Signs. Signs advertising a use not conducted upon the lot
where the sign is located.
CHAPTER 170
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
170.01 Title                            170.21 Construction Standards for
                                        Improvements
170.02 Purpose                          170.22 Street Standards
170.03 Jurisdiction                     170.23 Block and Lot Standards
170.04 Definitions                      170.24 Pre-Application Conference
170.05 Applicability                    170.25 Site Plan Concept Required
170.06 Recording of Plat                170.26 Classification and Plat
                                        Determination
170.07 Fees                             170.27 Plat of Survey Procedure
170.08 Building Permit Denials          170.28 Minor Plat Procedures and
                                        Requirements
170.09 Penalties                        170.29 Plats Required
170.10 Improvements Required            170.30 Preliminary Plat Requirements
170.11 Observation and Testing          170.31 Procedure for Review of
                                        Preliminary Plat
170.12 Minimum Improvements             170.32 Acceptance of Improvements
170.13 Easements Required               170.33 Performance Bond or Irrevocable
                                        Letter of Credit
170.14 Maintenance Bond Required        170.34 Final Plat Requirements
170.15 Alternative Systems for Sewer or 170.35 Final Plat Attachments
Water
170.16 Deferred Improvements            170.36 Procedure for Review of Final
                                        Plat
170.17 Minimum Design Standards         170.37 Variances
170.18 Land Suitability                 170.38 Changes and Amendments
170.19 Lands Subject to Flooding        170.39 Limitation of Provisions
170.20 Plat to Conform to Comprehensive  
Plan
 
170.01 TITLE.
    This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Subdivision Ordinance
of the City of Cumming, Iowa, and may be referred to herein as this chapter or
this ordinance. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the home rule authority of
Article 3, Section 38A of the Iowa Constitution and Chapters 354 and 355 of the
Code of Iowa.
170.02 PURPOSE.
    It is deemed essential to establish minimum standards for the design and
development of subdivisions to:
   1.   Provide for accurate, clear, and concise legal descriptions of real
estate consistent with zoning and land use regulations and to prevent wherever
possible, land boundary disputes and real estate title problems.
   2.   Regulate the extension and construction of public improvements, public
services and utilities, the improvement of land, and the design of subdivisions
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, Land Use Plan, Zoning Map or other
plans as may be adopted by the City Council.
   3.   Provide adequate land and infrastructure for building sites,
transportation, parks, open spaces, drainage ways, utilities and public
facilities for orderly community development and adequate capacity for streets
and utilities serving the subdivision.
170.03 JURISDICTION.
    All plats of survey and subdivisions, including Auditor’s plats, plats and
re-plats within the corporate limits of the City and unincorporated areas
within two miles of the corporate limits of the City shall be submitted to the
City for review in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The division
of land within unincorporated areas within two miles of the corporate limits of
the City shall be reviewed as authorized by Section 354.9 of the Code of Iowa.
170.04 DEFINITIONS.  
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words are defined and
interpreted.
   1.   “Alley” means public property dedicated to public use primarily for
vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a
street.
   2.   “Block” means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely
bounded by streets, railroad rights-of-way, rivers, and tracts of public land
or the boundary of a subdivision.
   3.   “City Engineer” means the professional engineer licensed in the State
of Iowa designated as City Engineer by the Council.
   4.   “City Standards” means Construction Standards for Improvements defined
in Section
170.21.
   5.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City.
   6.   “Comprehensive plan” means the general plan for the development of the
community, which may be titled master plan, comprehensive plan or some other
title, which plan has been adopted by the City Council. Such comprehensive plan
shall include any part of such plan separately adopted, and any amendment to
such plan or parts thereof.
   7.   “Cul-de-sac” means a street having one end connecting to another
street, and the other end terminated by a vehicular turnaround. Culs-de-sac
will not be allowed unless special situations exist. When allowed, all water
lines serving the cul-de-sac must be looped.
   8.   “Developer” means the owner of the lot to be developed or constructed
upon.
   9.   “Easement” means an authorization by a property owner for another to
use a designated part of this property for a specified purpose.
   10.   “Flood hazard area” means any area subject to flooding by a one
percent probability flood, otherwise referred to as a 100-year flood as
designated by the Iowa Natural Resources Council or the Federal Insurance
Administration.
   11.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent lands that must be reserved in order to discharge the waters of a 100-
year flood without cumulatively raising the waterway surface elevation more
than one foot.
   12.   “Improvements” means changes to land necessary to prepare it for
building sites, including (but not limited to) grading, filling, street paving,
curb paving, sidewalks, walkways, water mains, sewers, drainage ways and other
public works and appurtenances.
   13.   “Lot” means a portion of a subdivision or other parcel or tract of
land intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership or for building development.
   14.   “Lot, corner” means a lot situated at the intersection of two streets.
   15.   “Lot, double frontage” means any lot which is not a corner lot which
abuts two streets.
   16.   “Owner” means the legal entity holding title to the property being
subdivided, or such representative or agent as is fully empowered to act on its
behalf.
   17.   “Plat” means a map, drawing or chart on which a subdivider’s plan for
the subdivision of land is presented, which the subdivider submits for approval
and intends, in final form, to record.
   18.   “Resubdivision” means any subdivision of land which has previously
been included in a recorded plat. In appropriate context, it may be a verb
referring to the act of preparing a plat of previously subdivided land.
   19.   “Street” means public property, not an alley, intended for vehicular
circulation. In appropriate context, “street” may refer to the right-of-way
bounded by the property lines of such public property, or may refer to the
paving installed within such right- of-way.
   20.   “Street, arterial” means a street primarily intended to carry traffic
into, through and out of the City and not intended to provide access to
abutting property, except as provided for by the comprehensive plan. Arterial
streets are as designated per the major street plan.
   21.   “Street, local through” means a street connected culs-de-sac and other
local through streets to minor collector streets and major collector streets.
Local through streets are intended to provide access to abutting property.
   22.   “Street, major” means an arterial, major collector, minor collector or
local through street that has or is planned to have continuity to carry traffic
from one section of the City to another.
   23.   “Street, major collector” means a street as designated by the major
street plan with the purpose of conveying traffic efficiently from minor
collectors, local through streets and culs-de-sac to other major collectors and
arterial streets. Major collector streets are intended to provide access to
abutting property.
   24.   “Street, minor” means streets not classified as arterial or major
streets, such as culs-de-sacs or private streets.
   25.   “Street, minor collector” means a street designated by the major
street plan to connect local through streets, culs-de-sac, and other minor
collector streets to major collector streets. Minor collector streets are
intended to provide access to abutting property.
   26.   “Subdivider” means the owner of the property being subdivided or such
other person or entity empowered to act on the owner’s behalf.
   27.   “Subdivision” means the division of land into three or more parts for
the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building
development. The term, when appropriate to the context, may refer to the
process of subdividing or to land subdivided; however, the sale or exchange of
small parcels of land to or between the owners of adjacent platted lots, where
such sale or exchange does not create any additional lots and where the land
sold or exchanged constitutes less than 50 percent of the area of the enlarged
lot after such transfer, shall not be considered a subdivision.
   28.   “Telecommunication service” means any telephone, telegraph, cable
television or CATV system or any other system of cables, wires, fibers or
conduits, and any related equipment, facilities, manholes or overhead poles,
operated and maintained for the purpose of producing, receiving, transmitting,
amplifying and distributing audio, video and other forms of electronic or
electrical signals or for other communications purposes, or operated for the
purpose of transmitting data.
   29.   “Utilities” means systems for the distribution or collection of water,
gas, electricity, wastewater, storm water, cable and telephone.
   30.   “Zoning Administrator” means the local government officer designated
to administer the zoning ordinance and issue zoning permits.
170.05 APPLICABILITY.
    Every owner of any tract or parcel of land who has subdivided or shall
subdivide or plat said tract or parcel into three or more parts, for the
purpose of laying out an addition, subdivision, building lot or lots, acreage
or suburban lots within the City or, pursuant to Section 354.9 of the Code of
Iowa, within two miles from the corporate limits shall cause plats of such area
to be made in the form, and containing the information, as set forth in this
chapter before selling any lots therein contained or placing the plat on
record.
170.06 RECORDING OF PLAT.
    No subdivision plat, resubdivision plat or street dedication within the
City or within two miles of the corporate limits of the City shall be filed for
record with the County Recorder, or recorded by the County Recorder, until a
final plat of such subdivision, resubdivision or street dedication has been
reviewed and approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Upon
the approval of the final plat by the Council, it shall be the duty of the
subdivider to immediately file such plat with the County Auditor and County
Recorder, as required by law. Such approval shall be revocable after 30 days,
unless such plat has been duly recorded and evidence thereof filed with the
Clerk within such 30 days.
170.07 FEES.
    No plat for any subdivision or resubdivision shall be considered filed with
the Clerk unless or until said plat is accompanied by a fee in an amount set by
resolution of the Council.
170.08 BUILDING PERMIT DENIALS.
    No building permit shall be issued for construction on any lot, parcel or
tract, where a subdivision is required by this chapter, unless and until a
final plat of such subdivision has been approved and recorded in accordance
with this chapter or other provisions approved by the Council to assure
completion and compliance. No certificate of occupancy shall be granted until
the final plat is approved and duly recorded and the infrastructure accepted by
the Council.
170.09 PENALTIES.
    Any person who disposes of or offers for sale any lot or lots within the
area of jurisdiction of this chapter, until the plat thereof has been approved
by the Council, and recorded as required by law, shall forfeit and pay $500.00
for each lot or part of lot sold, disposed of or offered for sale. Nothing
contained in this chapter shall in any way limit the City’s right to any other
remedies available to the City for the enforcement of this chapter.
170.10 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
    The subdivider shall, at his or her expense, install and construct all
improvements required by this chapter. All required improvements shall be
installed and constructed in accordance with the current City Standards, and as
shown on the submitted construction plans approved by the Council. All
improvements must be inspected upon completion by the City Engineer prior to
approval.
170.11 OBSERVATION AND TESTING.
    All improvements shall be observed by the City Engineer to review for
compliance with this chapter. The cost of such observation shall be borne by
the subdivider, and shall be the actual cost of the observation to the City.
The cost of all necessary testing of soils and materials as required by this
chapter shall be borne by the subdivider. No further work can be completed
until inspection checks are completed. Inspection check points will be
determined by the City and contractor prior to construction.
170.12 MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS.
    The improvements set forth in this section shall be considered the minimum
improvements necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   1.   Streets. The subdivider of land being subdivided shall provide the
grading of the entire street right-of-way, alley or public place and provide
appropriate PCC paving, including curb and gutter on all streets to the plat
boundary. All streets or alleys shall be of such width and shall be so
constructed as to meet the standards of the City. Under some circumstances the
City may require, as a condition for approval of the plat, dedication and
improvement of a street having a width greater than outlined in Section
170.22 of this chapter or a thickness greater than that outlined in the design
standards to meet the needs of the platted area, but necessary to complete the
City street system as it relates to both the area being platted and other
areas. In such event, the City will pay the subdivider the difference in cost
of improving the wider and/or thicker street and the street width and/or
thickness reasonable to meet the foreseeable needs of the subdivision taken
alone. The streets shall, upon final observation, approval and acceptance by
the City, become the property of the City. The developer may be responsible for
all or a portion of the cost of paving of adjoining unpaved street.
   2.   Sanitary Sewer System. The subdivider of the land being platted shall
make adequate provision for the disposal of sanitary sewage from the platted
area with due regard being given to present or reasonably foreseeable needs.
There shall be constructed, at the subdivider’s expense, a sanitary sewer
system including all necessary pumping stations, pumping equipment, manholes
and all other necessary or desirable appurtenances to provide for the discharge
of sanitary sewage from all lots or parcels of land within the platted area to
a connection with the City's sanitary sewers. Mains shall be extended to plat
boundary where extension will be needed. The sanitary sewer system shall be
constructed in accordance with the current City Standards and at the sewer
grades approved by the City. Under some circumstances the City may require, as
a condition of approval of the plat, installation of a sanitary sewer that is
larger than necessary to complete the City sanitary sewer system as it relates
to both the area being platted and other areas. In such event, the City will
pay the subdivider the difference in cost of pipe and installation between the
larger sewer and the diameter of sewer reasonable to meet the foreseeable needs
of the area. The above-mentioned facilities for the collection and disposal of
sanitary sewage from the platted area shall, upon final observation, approval
and acceptance by the City, become the property of the City.
   3.   Storm Sewer System. The subdivider of land being platted shall install
and construct a storm sewer system adequate to serve the area, including
anticipated extension of use to serve additional areas. Mains shall be extended
to plat boundary where extension will be needed. The storm sewer system shall
be constructed in accordance with the current City Standards and at sewer
grades approved by the City. Under some circumstances the City may require, as
a condition of approval of the plat, installation of a storm sewer system that
is larger than necessary to meet the needs of the platted area, but necessary
to complete the City storm sewer system as it relates to both the area being
platted and other areas. In such event, the City will pay the subdivider the
difference in cost of pipe and installation between the larger sewer and the
diameter of sewer reasonable to meet the foreseeable needs of the area. The
sewers shall, upon final observation, approval and acceptance by the City,
become the property of the City. In the storm sewer design phase, consideration
shall be given to alternatives and principles of storm water management or the
provisions of a storm water management plan if such plan has been adopted by
the City.
   4.   Water Main System. The subdivider of land being platted shall install
and construct a water main system to adequately serve all lots or parcels of
land within the platted area, with due regard to the present and reasonably
foreseeable needs of the entire area, and shall connect the same to the City's
existing water mains. Mains shall be extended to plat boundary where extension
will be needed. The water mains and appurtenances system shall be constructed
in accordance with the current City Standards. All water lines shall be at
least eight inches in diameter and looped as may be required by the City. Under
some circumstances the City may require, as a condition for approval of the
plat, installation of a water main that is larger than necessary to complete
the City water distribution system as it relates to both the area being platted
and other areas. In such event the City will pay the subdivider the difference
in cost of pipe and installation between the larger water main and the diameter
of water main reasonable to meet the foreseeable needs of the area. The water
mains shall, upon final observation, approval and acceptance by the City,
become the property of the City.
   5.   Sidewalks. The developer of land shall install sidewalks to current
City Standards with a minimum width of four feet and provide appropriate PCC
paving with a depth as to meet the standards of the City, at his or her expense
where the fronts, rears or sides of lots front an existing or platted street
adjacent to or within the proposed plat as well as within parks and open spaces
as directed by the City. The sidewalk shall be extended to the park or open
space boundary through the developable subdivided areas to a proposed or
existing street right-of-way as directed by the City. Each individual lot
developer contained within the subdivision plat shall install all other
sidewalks within the subdivision as required by this Code of Ordinances. As a
condition for approval of the plat, installation of a sidewalk wider than four
feet may be necessary to complete the City Trails system as it relates to both
the area being platted and other areas. In such event the City will pay the
subdivider or developer the cost of the additional sidewalk width above the
required four- foot minimum. The sidewalks shall, upon final observation,
approval and acceptance by the City, become the property of the City. All work
shall be completed prior to the issuance of any certificate of occupancy.
   6.   Street Lighting. The subdivider of land being platted shall, at his or
her expense, provide for street lighting. The subdivider shall coordinate with
the necessary agencies to provide such lighting and shall submit to the City,
for review and approval, a plan consistent with the current edition of the Iowa
Statewide Urban Design Standards for Public Improvements, as amended by the
City. The street lighting shall, upon final observation, approval and
acceptance by the City, become the responsibility of the City.
   7.   Electrical/Telecommunication Service. The subdivider of land being
platted shall, at his or her expense, provide for underground electrical/
telecommunication service in a joint utility box track to the land being
platted and each of its parcels contained therein. The subdivider shall
coordinate with the necessary agencies to provide such service in accordance
with the controlling agencies' regulations and requirements.
   8.   Street Signs and Traffic Signalization. The subdivider of land being
platted shall, at his or her expense, provide for signage and installation of
permanent street and traffic control signs consistent with the City’s
standards. In the event the land being platted directly results in the need for
traffic signalization, the proportion of traffic directly attributed to the
proposed subdivision and contributing to the need of such signalization shall
be included in the subdivision plat at the subdivider’s expense. The portion of
the traffic contributing to the need for traffic signalization as a result of
existing conditions prior to the proposed subdivision shall be at the City’s
expense. The traffic signalization shall, upon final observation, approval and
acceptance by the City, become the property of the City.
   9.   Fire Hydrants. The subdivider of land being platted shall install and
connect to the waterworks system fire hydrants as required by the Council. Fire
hydrants shall be located in accordance with current City Standards. In no
instance shall a hydrant be located farther than 300 feet from any structure.
The type of fire hydrant shall be determined by the City Engineer.
   10.   Subsurface Drainage. The subdivider of land shall install a collector
storm sewer line designed to carry water from residential sump pumps to a
public storm sewer system or other acceptable drainage-way in accordance with
City Standards and to take into consideration volume of flows, soil conditions,
etc. The storm sewer lines running within the street right-of-way shall be
owned by the City. The lines running from a residence and connecting to the
City storm sewer system shall be privately owned.
   11.   Sump Pump Lines. It is a petty misdemeanor for any owner, occupant or
user of any premises to direct into or allow any storm water, surface water,
ground water, well water or water from industrial or commercial air
conditioning systems to drain into the sanitary sewer system of the City. No
rain spout or other form of surface drainage and no foundation drainage or sump
pump shall be connected or discharged into any sanitary sewer. A sump pump and
rigid pipe discharge connection to the outside shall be required for all
construction in new subdivisions when it is determined necessary by authorized
City personnel to protect sanitary sewer infiltration. The authorized City
personnel shall conduct his or her analysis and make his or her determination
of soil conditions on a subdivision basis. The sump pump and rigid pipe
discharge requirement will apply to all units constructed within a specific
subdivision.
   12.   Studies. The subdivider and/or developer of land shall be responsible
for improvements or studies that the City and/or County Engineer deems
necessary because of the impact of their development on the surrounding area.
170.13 EASEMENTS REQUIRED.
    The subdivider shall grant easements to the City and utility companies as
required for providing utility services to the subdivision as follows:
   1.   Public Utilities. Where alleys are not provided, or where otherwise
required by the present or future placement of public utilities, easements of
not less than 20 feet in width shall be granted by the owner along rear and
front, and where necessary, alongside lot lines for public utility
requirements. Except where prohibited by topography, such easements shall be
centered on lot lines. Easements of greater width may be required along lot
lines, or across lots when necessary for the placement and maintenance of
utilities. No buildings or structures, except as necessary for utilities, shall
be permitted on such easements.
   2.   Easements Along Streams and Watercourses. Wherever any stream or
surface watercourse is located in an area that is being subdivided or
developed, the subdivider/land developer shall, at his or her own expense, make
adequate provisions for the proper drainage of surface water and shall provide
and dedicate to the City an easement along said stream or watercourse as
necessary for the proper maintenance of the watercourse and as provided by the
City.
   3.   Sidewalks. Where sidewalks are required to be extended from street
right-of- way to parks and open spaces, the subdivider shall dedicate to the
City a platted out-lot for said sidewalk with sufficient width as necessary for
proper maintenance of the sidewalks.
170.14 MAINTENANCE BOND REQUIRED.
    The owner and subdivider of the land being platted shall be required to
provide to the City proper maintenance bonds, satisfactory to the City, so as
to ensure that for a period of four years from the date of final acceptance of
any improvement the owner and subdivider shall be responsible to maintain such
improvement in good repair.
170.15 ALTERNATIVE SYSTEMS FOR SEWER OR WATER.
    Where connection to the City sewer or water system cannot reasonably be
made, the City may approve alternate facilities for the distribution of water
or the collection and disposal of sanitary wastes. Such alternate systems shall
be designed to fully protect the public health, safety and welfare, and shall
meet all requirements of State, County or other applicable health regulations.
Prior to granting approval of such alternate systems, the City shall require
that the owner and subdivider provide to the City a waiver of assessment
protest or such other legally binding documents necessary to protect the City
from the expense of the subsequent installation of sewer or water facilities.
170.16 DEFERRED IMPROVEMENTS.
    Where the subdivision is located outside but within two miles of the City
limits, the construction of public improvements within the subdivision may be
deferred at the option of the City provided that the subdivider furnish to the
City a written waiver authorizing the City to install specified public
improvements within the subdivision and recover the full cost thereof by
special assessment procedures in the event the subdivision should be annexed to
the City.
170.17 MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS.
    The standards set forth in this chapter shall be considered the minimum
standards necessary to protect the public health, safety and general welfare.
The minimum improvements outlined in this chapter shall be designed in
accordance with the current edition of the Iowa Statewide Urban Design
Standards for Public Improvements.
170.18 LAND SUITABILITY.
    No land shall be subdivided which is found to be unsuitable for subdividing
by reason of flooding, ponding, poor drainage, adverse soil conditions, adverse
geological formations, unsatisfactory topography or other conditions likely to
be harmful to the public health, safety or general welfare, unless such
unsuitable conditions are connected to the satisfaction of the City. If land is
found to be unsuitable for subdivision for any of the reasons cited in this
section, the Council shall state its reasons in writing and afford the
subdivider an opportunity to present data regarding such unsuitability.
Thereafter, the Council may reaffirm, modify or withdraw its determination
regarding such unsuitability.
170.19 LANDS SUBJECT TO FLOODING.
    No subdivision containing land located in a floodway or a flood hazard area
shall be approved by the City without the approval of the Iowa Natural
Resources Council. No lot shall be located so as to include land located within
a floodway or flood hazard area unless the lot is of such size and shape that
it will contain a buildable area not within the floodway or flood hazard area
suitable for development as allowed by
Chapter 165 of this Code of Ordinances for the zone in which the lot is
located. Land located within a flood hazard area or floodway may be included
within a plat as follows, subject to the approval of the City:
   1.   Included within individual lots in the subdivision, subject to the
limitations of this section;
   2.   Preserved as open space for recreation use by all owners of lots in the
subdivision, with an appropriate legal instrument, approved by the City,
providing for its care and maintenance by such owners;
   3.   If acceptable to the City, dedicated to the City as public open space
for recreation or flood control purposes.
170.20 PLAT TO CONFORM TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
    The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets and the general nature and extent of the lots and uses proposed shall
conform to the comprehensive plan of the City, provided such plan has been
adopted by the City, and shall conform to such other plans, including but not
limited to, a major street plan, a sanitary sewer system plan, or a parks and
open space plan, provided such plan has been adopted by the City.
170.21 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
    In addition to the standards set forth in this chapter, all minimum
improvements outlined in this chapter shall be constructed in accordance with
the current edition of the Iowa Statewide Urban Standard Specifications for
Public Improvements. The City Engineer shall from time to time prepare, and the
Council shall from time to time adopt by resolution, technical standards for
public improvements amending the Iowa Statewide Urban Standard Specifications
for Public Improvements. Such technical standards for public improvements shall
contain the minimum acceptable specifications for the construction of public
improvements. Such technical standards may vary for classes of improvements,
giving due regard to the classification of streets or other improvements, and
the extent and character of the area served by the improvements. Upon adoption
by the Council by resolution, such technical standards for public improvements
shall have such force and effect as if they were fully set forth in this
section.
170.22 STREET STANDARDS.
    The following standards shall apply to all streets to be located within the
subdivision:
   1.   Streets shall provide for the continuation of major streets from
adjoining platted areas, and the extension of major streets into adjoining
unplatted areas. Where a plat encompasses the location for a major street
proposed in the comprehensive plan or major street plan the plat shall provide
for such major street.
   2.   Street grades shall align to existing streets, and all grades for
streets shall be as approved by the City.
   3.   Arterial streets shall be located so as to not require direct access
from the arterial street to abutting lots.
   4.   Street right-of-way widths and pavement widths shall be as specified in
the comprehensive plan, major streets plan or technical standards for public
improvements.
   5.   Half streets are prohibited, except where an existing platted half
street abuts the subdivision; a platted half street to complete the street
shall be required.
   6.   Minor streets should be designed to discourage through traffic while
safely connecting to major collector or arterial streets.
   7.   Street jogs with centerline offset of less than 150 feet are
prohibited, except where topography or other physical conditions make such jogs
unavoidable.
   8.   Streets shall intersect as nearly at right angles as possible and no
street shall intersect any other street at less than 70 degrees.
   9.   At intersections of major streets, and otherwise as necessary, lot
corners abutting the intersection shall be rounded with a radius sufficient to
provide necessary space within the right-of-way for sidewalks, traffic control
devices and other necessary improvements without encroachment onto the corner
lots.
   10.   Dead-end streets are prohibited, except where a street is planned to
continue past the subdivider’s property. A dead end may be allowed, provided a
hard-surfaced HMA or PCC turnaround (a “bulb” or “hammerhead”) is constructed
and removed upon subsequent development.
   11.   Cul-de-Sac. When a cul-de-sac is permitted, such street shall be no
longer than 600 feet in length for office, commercial, industrial and multiple-
family residential land uses, and no longer than 800 feet within residential
subdivisions with lots for detached single- family dwellings. A maximum of 30
single-family detached units will be permitted access to a cul-de-sac street.
The closed end of a cul-de-sac shall have a circular turnaround having a
diameter of 114 feet of right-of-way and paved roadway diameter of 90 feet in
residential subdivisions. The circular turnaround of a cul-de-sac in a
commercial or industrial subdivision shall have a diameter of 114 feet of
right-of-way and 90 feet of roadway pavement. The right-of-way width of the
street leading to the cul-de-sac turnaround in all subdivisions shall have a
minimum of 60 feet in width and the lead-in portion of the street to the
circular turnaround shall be rounded at a radius of not less than 50 feet.
   12.   Dead-end alleys are prohibited.
   13.   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal lots or parcels,
such lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical location and
opening of future streets and appropriate resubdivision with provision for
adequate utility connections for such resubdivision. Easements for the future
openings and extensions for such streets or utilities may, at the discretion of
the City, be made a requirement of the plat.
   14.   Streets which are or will become extensions of existing streets shall
be given the same name of the existing streets. New street names shall not be
the same or sound similar to existing street names. All street names shall be
at the approval of the City.
   15.   The City may approve a private street where unusual conditions make a
private street desirable, provided adequate covenants or other legal documents
ensure that the City will not have to assume any maintenance or other
responsibility for such street.
   16.   The width of the right-of-way and paved surface for streets within a
subdivision shall be determined by the Council upon recommendation of the
Commission. The minimum width of right-of-way and paved surface for streets
shall be as follows:
               Minimum Right-of-Way                       Permitted Vehicle
Type of Street Width                Minimum Paved Surface Parking for Minimum
                                                          Paved Surface
                Minimum Right-of-Way                       Permitted Vehicle
Type of Street  Width                Minimum Paved Surface Parking for Minimum
                                                           Paved Surface
Major Arterial  120 feet             65 feet               None
Minor Arterial  100 feet             65 feet               one side only
Major Collector 80 feet              37 feet
Minor Collector 70 feet              31 feet
Local           60 feet              26 feet
Cul-de-Sac      60 feet              26 feet
Alley           20 feet              18 feet
Dead End        Prohibited
Private         Prohibited
 
170.23 BLOCK AND LOT STANDARDS.
    The following standards shall apply to the layout of blocks and lots in all
subdivisions and, to the extent possible, in all resubdivisions:
   1.   No residential block shall be longer than 1,320 feet or shorter than
300 feet measured from street centerline to street centerline. The width of
blocks should be arranged so as to allow two tiers of lots, with utility
easements.
   2.   In blocks over 700 feet in length, the City may require a public way or
an easement at least ten feet in width, at or near the center of the block, for
use by pedestrians.
   3.   The size and shape of blocks or lots intended for commercial or
industrial use shall be adequate to provide for the use intended and to meet
the parking, loading and other requirements for such uses contained in
Chapter 165 of this Code of Ordinances.
   4.   Lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will provide
satisfactory building sites, properly related to topography and surrounding
land uses.
   5.   The size and shape of all lots shall comply with all requirements of
Chapter 165 of this Code of Ordinances for the zone in which the lot is
located.
   6.   The front of all lots shall abut a public street, or upon an approved
private street, with a minimum frontage of at least 40 feet measured as a
straight line between the two front lot corners.
   7.   Unless unavoidable, lots shall not front on or have direct access to
arterial or major collector streets. Where unavoidable, lots shall be so
arranged as to minimize the number of access points. Commercial and multi-
family development along Highway G14/Cumming Avenue shall use group access
points on adjacent streets.
   8.   All lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines or
radial to curved street lines, except where, in the judgment of the City, a
variation to this provision will provide a better street and lot layout.
   9.   Corner lots shall have sufficient extra width to permit the required
front yard setback as specified in
Chapter 165 of this Code of Ordinances, oriented to either street.
   10.   Reversed frontage lots are prohibited. Double frontage lots shall only
be permitted where abutting a major street and a minor street, and such lots
shall front only on the minor street.
   11.   Any lot not to be served by a sanitary sewage system shall have
sufficient area to allow for a satisfactory primary drain field and an
alternate drain field (two total). No subdivision to be served by a septic
system shall be approved by the City Council until percolation tests have been
performed and the results of said tests have been provided to and reported on
by the City Engineer.
170.24 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
    Whenever a subdivision located within the platting jurisdiction of the City
is proposed, the owner and subdivider shall schedule a pre- application
conference with the City. The conference shall be attended by such City or
utility representatives as deemed desirable, and by the owner and the owner’s
engineer and/or planner, as deemed desirable. The purpose of such conference
shall be to acquaint the City with the proposed subdivision, and to acquaint
the subdivider with the requirements, procedures and any special problems
relating to the proposed subdivision.
170.25 SITE PLAN CONCEPT REQUIRED.
    For the pre-application conference the subdivider shall provide a map or
site plan concept showing the location of the subdivision, the general location
of any proposed streets and other improvements, and the general layout and
arrangement of intended land uses, in relation to the surrounding area. The
subdivider may present the site plan to the City staff, Zoning Administrator
and City Engineer for review, prior to incurring significant costs preparing
the preliminary or final plat.
170.26 CLASSIFICATION AND PLAT DETERMINATION.
    Prior to or during the initial discussion with the owner or subdivider, the
Zoning Administrator shall classify the type of division or subdivision to
accurately determine the extent of information required and inform the owner or
subdivider of the procedure for application submission and review. The Zoning
Administrator during initial contact and subsequent meetings with the owner or
subdivider shall compile a list of items requested by the owner or subdivider
to be modified, altered or waived regarding this chapter. Those items detailed
in this chapter, which have no direct application to the proposed subdivision
shall be waived by the Zoning Administrator and listed for submission with the
application. Those items for which mediation or a variance is requested shall
require a formal application and process as detailed in Section
170.37 of this chapter.
   1.   Easement Transfer. New or relocated for municipal utility services or
access for a trail or walkway shall utilize a Plat of Survey.
   2.   Segmental Lot Splits. The sale by transfer of portions of parcels or
lots of record shall utilize a Plat of Survey.
      A.   Property line adjustment - division or portion of parcels or lots as
defined.
         (1)   The divided portion added to an adjacent developed non-
conforming lot of record to bring the existing lot into compliance.
         (2)   The divided portion added to an adjacent developed lot to allow
a building expansion or the addition of a new accessory building on said lot,
which will provide adequate setback or conformance to other requirements.
         (3)   The divided portion added to an adjacent conforming developed or
undeveloped lot to expand the area of the said lot and allow the future
subdivision of the expanded lot.
      B.   One new lot created - with the addition or transfer of a portion of
a developed parcel or lot of record to a vacant nonconforming lot, provided
that the new lot and the residual lot shall meet the requirements of
Chapter 165 of this Code of Ordinances.
   3.   Minor Subdivision—two to three total lots with no improvements, as
defined, shall utilize the Minor Plat procedure.
   4.   Major Subdivision—two or more lots with no improvements, as defined,
shall utilize the preliminary plat, construction, and final plat procedures.
170.27 PLAT OF SURVEY PROCEDURE.
   A Plat of Survey shall be prepared for a single property split, property
line adjustment and other plat procedures as allowed and submitted together
with the application. The review shall include the following:
   1.   Plat of Survey Requirements. The plat shall be clearly marked as a Plat
of Survey and the information on the plat shall include all items required in
Code of Iowa, Chapters 354 and 355 and the related Iowa Administrative Code,
including (but not limited to) the following:
      A.   The name of the proprietors.
      B.   The parcel letter designation as determined and approved by the
County Auditor.
      C.   An accurate description of the parcel.
      D.   The acreage of the parcel and of that lying within a public right-
of-way.
      E.   The description, location, area and purpose of any proposed
easement.
      F.   A directive on the plat for a single property split informing the
County Auditor that the parcel is to be combined with the adjacent parcel to
create a single parcel.
      G.   An approval block entitled:
                     Meets Subdivision Ordinance Requirements.
                     Date _______________________________
                     ____________________________________
                           Cumming Zoning Administrator
   2.   Plat of Survey Application. The application for Plat of Survey approval
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee, include three copies of the plat of survey and contain
the following information:
      A.   The name address and contact information of the landowner,
subdivider and professional consultants advising the same.
      B.   The property description and street address and present and proposed
use of property.
      C.   A copy of any covenants, use restrictions and details of any
building setbacks to be recorded with the plat.
      D.   A statement of the availability of water and sewer services for any
new buildable lot created with the proposed division.
      E.   A written description of all easements to be dedicated for public
use.
      F.   Any other pertinent information as requested.
   3.   Plat of Survey Review Procedure. The procedure for the consideration of
the Plat of Survey, application and any documentation is as follows:
      A.   The Zoning Administrator shall provide copies of the information to
the City Engineer and other City officials as needed. The various officials
shall provide a written recommendation within 10 days after receipt of the
same.
      B.   After review of the complete application and official’s
recommendations, the Zoning Administrator, or designee, shall approve or
disapprove the application. If the Plat of Survey and submissions are found to
comply with this chapter and
Chapter 165 of this Code of Ordinances and other City regulations, the
Administrator shall grant approval and sign the plat approval block. In the
event the Plat of Survey or submissions do not comply or are found in violation
of any ordinance or code, the Administrator shall notify the owner and surveyor
of the specific items of noncompliance or violation. The owner or surveyor may
correct the plat or documents and return the same for the completion of the
review. If the Administrator denies the application, a letter noting the
reasons for the denial shall be sent to the owner and surveyor. The
Administrator’s review shall normally be completed within 10 days.
      C.   Copies of the approved Plat of Survey and documents shall be
returned to the owner or the surveyor with instructions to file the same with
the County Recorder.
      D.   The Plat of Survey shall be filed with the County Recorder within 30
days of the plat. If the plat is not filed within that time period, the
Administrator shall consider a time extension when submitted in writing or
request Council action to revoke the plat approval.
      E.   Appeals of the Zoning Administrator’s action on the Plat of Survey
shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The applicant must
submit an appeal in writing to the City within 30 days of notification of the
decision and send the appeal by return receipt mail.
170.28 MINOR PLAT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.  
   A Plat of Survey shall be prepared for a single property split, property
line adjustment and other plat procedures as allowed and submitted together
with the application. The review shall include the following:
   1.   Plat of Survey Requirements. The plat shall be clearly marked as a Plat
of Survey and the information on the plat shall include all items required in
Code of Iowa, Chapters 354 and 355, and the related Iowa Administrative Code,
including (but not limited to) the following:
      A.   The name of the proprietor(s).
      B.   The parcel letter designation as determined and approved by the
County Auditor.
      C.   An accurate description of the parcel.
      D.   The acreage of the parcel and of that lying within a public right-of
way.
      E.   The description, location, area and purpose of any proposed
easement.
      F.   A directive on the plat for a single property split informing the
County Auditor that the parcel is to be combined with the adjacent parcel to
create a single parcel.
      G.   An approval block entitled:
                     Meets Subdivision Ordinance Requirements.
                     Date _______________________________
                     ____________________________________
                           Cumming Zoning Administrator
   2.   Plat of Survey Application. The application for Plat of Survey approval
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee, include three copies of the Plat of Survey and contain
the following information:
      A.   The name, address and contact information of the landowner,
subdivider, and professional consultants advising the same.
      B.   The property description and street address and present and proposed
use of property.
      C.   A copy of any covenants, use restrictions and details of any
building setbacks to be recorded with the plat.
      D.   A statement of the availability of water and sewer services for any
new buildable lot created with the proposed division.
      E.   A written description of all easements to be dedicated for public
use.
      F.   Any other pertinent information as requested.
   3.   Plat of Survey Review Procedure. The procedure for the consideration of
the Plat of Survey, application and any documentation is as follows:
      A.   The Zoning Administrator shall provide copies of the information to
the City Engineer and other City officials as needed. The various officials
shall provide a written recommendation within 10 days after receipt of the
same.
      B.   After review of the complete application and official’s
recommendations, the Zoning Administrator shall approve or disapprove the
application. If the Plat of Survey and submissions are found to comply with the
this chapter and
Chapter 165 and other City regulations, the Administrator shall grant approval
and sign the plat approval block. In the event the Plat of Survey or
submissions do not comply or are found in violation of any ordinance or code,
the Administrator shall notify the owner and surveyor of the specific item(s)
of non-compliance or violation. The owner or surveyor may correct the plat or
documents and return the same for the completion of the review. If the
Administrator denies the application, a letter noting the reasons for the
denial shall be sent to the owner and surveyor. The Administrator’s review
shall normally be completed within 10 days.
      C.   Copies of the approved Plat of Survey and documents shall be
returned to the owner or the surveyor with instructions to file the same with
the County Recorder.
      D.   The Plat of Survey shall be filed with the County Recorder within 30
days of the Administrator’s approval. If the plat is not filed within that time
period, the Administrator shall consider a time extension when submitted in
writing or request Council action to revoke the plat approval.
      E.   Appeals of the Zoning Administrator’s action on the Plat of Survey
shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The applicant must
submit an appeal in writing to the City within 30 days of notification of the
decision and send the appeal by return receipt mail.
170.29 PLATS REQUIRED.
    In order to secure approval of any proposed subdivision, the owner and
subdivider shall submit to the City plats and other information as required by
this chapter. The owner and subdivider of any major subdivision shall comply
with the requirements for a preliminary plat and the requirements for a final
plat. The owner and subdivider of a minor subdivision may elect to omit the
submission of a preliminary plat.
170.30 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
    The subdivider shall prepare and file with the Clerk 20 copies of the
preliminary plat drawn to a scale of one inch equals 100 feet or larger. Sheet
size shall be at least 11 inches by 17 inches. In addition, at least one 11-
inch by 17-inch submittal that is reproducible shall be filed with the City.
Where more than one sheet is required, the sheets shall show the number of the
sheet and the total number of sheets in the plat, and match lines indicating
where other sheets adjoin. The preliminary plat shall be clearly marked
“preliminary plat” and shall show, or have attached thereto the following:
   1.   Title, scale, north point and date.
   2.   Proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or resemble
existing subdivision names in the County.
   3.   The name and address of the owner and the name, address and profession
of the person preparing the plat.
   4.   A key map showing the general location of the proposed subdivision in
relation to surrounding development.
   5.   The names and locations of adjacent subdivisions and the names of
record owners and location of adjoining parcels of unplatted lands. A list of
all owners of record of property located within 200 feet of the subdivision
boundaries shall be attached.
   6.   The location of property lines, streets and alleys, easements,
buildings, utilities, watercourses, tree masses and other existing features
affecting the plat.
   7.   Existing and proposed zoning of the proposed subdivision and adjoining
property.
   8.   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet if the general
slope of the site is less than 10 percent and at vertical intervals of not more
than five feet if the general slope is 10 percent or greater.
   9.   The legal description of the area being platted.
   10.   The boundary of the area being platted, shown as a dark line, with the
approximate length of boundary lines and the approximate location of the
property in reference to known section lines.
   11.   The layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of proposed lots.
   12.   The location, width and dimensions of all streets and alleys proposed
to be dedicated for public use.
   13.   The proposed names for all streets in the area being platted.
   14.   Present and proposed utility systems, including sanitary and storm
sewers, other drainage facilities, water lines, gas mains, electric utilities
and other facilities.
   15.   Proposed easements, showing locations, widths, purposes and
limitations.
   16.   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes, or shown
for such purpose in the comprehensive plan or other adopted plans.
   17.   A general summary description of any protective covenants or private
restrictions to be incorporated in the final plat.
   18.   Any other pertinent information as necessary.
   19.   The fee, as required by this chapter, shall be submitted with the plat
submission.
170.31 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
    The following procedures shall govern the review of preliminary plats:
   1.   The City Clerk, upon receipt of 20 copies of the preliminary plat,
shall file one copy in the records of the City, shall retain one copy for
public inspection and shall forward the remaining copies of the plat to the
Zoning Administrator. In addition, at least one 11-inch by 17-inch submittal
that is reproducible shall be filed with the City.
   2.   The Zoning Administrator shall provide copies of the plat to the City
Engineer, and such other persons as necessary to review the plat and within 21
days have comments back to the developer’s engineer. When comments have been
corrected, corrected plan is then submitted to the Commission.
   3.   The Commission shall examine the plat and the report of the City
Engineer and such other information as it deems necessary or desirable to
ascertain whether the plat conforms to the ordinances of the City and conforms
to the comprehensive plan and other duly adopted plans of the City. The
Commission shall, within 45 days of the filing of the plat with the City Clerk,
forward a report and recommendation regarding the plat to the Council. If such
recommendation is to disapprove or modify the plat, the reasons therefor shall
be set forth in writing in the report, and a copy of the report and
recommendation shall be provided to the applicant.
   4.   The Council shall examine the plat, the report of the City Engineer,
the report of the Commission and such other information as it deems necessary
or desirable. Upon such examination, the Council shall ascertain whether the
plat conforms to the ordinances and standards of the City, conforms to the
comprehensive plan and other duly adopted plans of the City, and will be
conducive to the orderly growth and development of the City, in order to
protect the public health, safety and welfare. Following such examination, the
Council may approve, approve subject to conditions, or disapprove the plat. If
the decision of the Council is to disapprove the plat, or to approve the plat
subject to conditions, the reasons therefor shall be set forth in writing in
the official records of the Council, and such decisions shall be provided to
the applicant. Action on the preliminary plat by the Council shall be taken
within 60 days of the filing of the plat with the City Clerk, unless such time
period is extended by agreement between the subdivider and the City. Final
submittal of the corrected preliminary plat must be within 30 days after
Council action.
   5.   Duration of Approval. The approval of a preliminary plat by the City
shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of such approval, after
which such approval shall be void, and the subdivider shall take no action
requiring the precedent approval of a preliminary plat except upon application
for and approval of an extension of such period of validity by the Council.
   6.   Improvement Authorization. The approval of the preliminary plat shall
constitute authorization by the Council for the design of improvements as
required by this chapter, and as shown on the preliminary plat; provided, no
such improvement shall be constructed or installed until and unless the plans,
profiles, cross-sections and specifications for the construction of such
improvement has been submitted to and approved in writing by the City Engineer
and the Council.
170.32 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.  
   Before the Council will approve the final plat, all of the applicable
improvements required in this chapter shall be constructed and accepted by
formal resolution of the Council. Before passage of said resolution of
acceptance, the City Engineer shall report that said improvements meet all City
specifications and ordinances or other City requirements and the agreements
between the subdivider and the City.
170.33 PERFORMANCE BOND OR IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT.
   In lieu of the requirement that improvements be completed prior to the
approval of a final plat, the subdivider may post a performance bond with the
City or provide an irrevocable letter of credit to the City guaranteeing that
improvements not completed shall be completed within a period of two years from
the date of approval of such final plat, but such approval of the plat shall
not constitute a final acceptance of any improvements to be constructed. The
amount for the letter of credit shall be established by the City Council and
the City Engineer. The amount will be no less than 150 percent of the bid cost/
award. Improvements will be accepted only after their construction has been
completed and approved by the City Council and the City Engineer.
170.34 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   The subdivider shall, within one year from the date of approval of the
preliminary plat, unless such time period has been extended, prepare and file
with the City Clerk 20 copies of the final plat and required attachments, as
set forth in this chapter. Except for a final plat for a minor subdivision as
set forth in this chapter, no final plat shall be considered by the Council
until and unless a preliminary plat for the area included in the proposed final
plat has been approved and has not expired and become void as set forth in this
chapter. The final plat shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet
or larger. Sheet size shall be at least 22 inches by 34 inches and shall be of
a size acceptable to the County Auditor. In addition, the subdivider shall
submit to the City one copy that is 11 inches by 17 inches which is
reproducible. If more than one sheet is used, each sheet shall clearly show the
number of the sheet, the total number of sheets included in the plat and match
lines indicating where other sheets adjoin. The final plat shall be clearly
marked “final plat” and shall show the following:
   1.   The name of the subdivision.
   2.   Name and address of the owner and subdivider.
   3.   Scale and a graphic bar scale, north arrow and date on each sheet.
   4.   All monuments to be of record.
   5.   Sufficient survey data to positively describe the bounds of every lot,
block, street, easement or other areas shown on the plat, as well as the outer
boundaries of the subdivided land.
   6.   All required distance, bearing, curve and other survey data.
   7.   All adjoining properties shall be identified, and where such adjoining
properties are a part of a recorded subdivision, the name of that subdivision
shall be shown. If the subdivision platted is a resubdivision of a part or the
whole of a previously recorded subdivision, sufficient ties shall be shown to
controlling lines appearing on the earlier plat to permit an overlay to be
made. Resubdivisions shall be labeled as such in a subtitle following the name
of the subdivision wherever the name appears on the plat.
   8.   Street names and clear designation of public alleys.
   9.   Block and lot numbers.
   10.   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved for
public use, and the purpose for which such property is dedicated or reserved
for public use.
   11.   The purpose of any easement shown on the plat shall be confined to
only those easements pertaining to public utilities including gas, power,
telephone, cable television, water, sewer, easements for ingress and egress and
such drainage easements as are deemed necessary for the orderly development of
the land encompassed within the plat.
   12.   All interior excepted parcels clearly indicated and labeled “not a
part of this plat.”
   13.   A strip of land shall not be reserved by the subdivider unless the
land is of sufficient size and shape to be of some practical use or service as
determined by the Council.
   14.   The minimum unadjusted acceptable error of closure for all subdivision
boundaries shall be 1:10,000 and shall be 1:5,000 for any individual lot.
   15.   A statement by a registered land surveyor that the plat was prepared
by the surveyor or under the surveyor’s direct personal supervision, signed and
dated by the surveyor and bearing the surveyor’s Iowa registration number or
seal, and a scaled certificate of the accuracy of the plat by the registered
land surveyor who drew the plat.
170.35 FINAL PLAT ATTACHMENTS.
   The following shall be attached to and accompany any final plat and be fully
executed:
   1.   A statement by the proprietors and their spouses, if any, that the plat
is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire, signed
and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgments of
deeds. The statement by the proprietors may also include a dedication to the
public of all lands within the plat that are designated for streets, alleys,
parks, open areas, school property, or other public use, if the dedication is
approved by the Council.
   2.   An opinion by an attorney-at-law who has examined the abstract of title
of the land being platted. The opinion shall state the names of the proprietors
and holders of mortgages, liens or other encumbrances on the land being platted
and shall note the encumbrances, along with any bonds securing the
encumbrances. Utility easements shall not be construed to be encumbrances for
the purpose of this section.
   3.   A certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free from
certified taxes and certified special assessments or that the land is free from
certified taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured by bond
in compliance with Section 354.12 of the Code of Iowa.
   4.   A statement from the mortgage holders or lienholders, if any, that the
plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire,
signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment
of deeds. An affidavit and bond as provided for in Section 354.12 of the Code
of Iowa may be recorded in lieu of the consent of the mortgage or lienholder.
When a mortgage or lienholder consents to the subdivision, a release of
mortgage or lien shall be recorded for any areas conveyed to the City or
dedicated to the public.
   5.   The encumbrance bond, if any.
   6.   A statement of restriction of all types that run with the land.
   7.   A certificate by the City Engineer that all required improvements have
been satisfactorily completed in accordance with the construction plans as
approved and in substantial compliance with the approved preliminary plat.
Prior to such certification, “as built” plans for all improvements shall have
been provided to the City Engineer. In lieu thereof, the subdivider shall
provide a written agreement for the completion of public improvements together
with a performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit guaranteeing completion
in a form approved by the City Attorney.
   8.   Where the improvements have been installed, a resolution accepting and
approving such improvements, along with the maintenance bond required by this
chapter.
   9.   If private streets or other private improvements have been approved, an
agreement in the form of a covenant running with the land, in a form approved
by the City Attorney, providing for the construction or reconstruction of any
improvements to meet City Standards, and the assessment of all costs to the
property owners in the event of annexation and dedication and acceptance shall
be required.
   10.   A resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and for
signatures of the Mayor and Clerk.
   11.   The applicable fee, if any, due upon Council approval.
   12.   An electronic version of the final plat and as-builts shall be
submitted. The version and type of electronic copy shall be determined by the
City Engineer at the time of submission.
   13.   Written easement document covering all easements as required in
Section
170.13.
   14.   The subdivider shall provide an agreement for the installation of
sidewalks stating the time and who is responsible for installation.
170.36 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF FINAL PLAT.
   The following procedures shall govern the review of final plats:
   1.   The City Clerk, upon receipt of 20 copies of the final plat shall file
one copy in the records of the City, shall retain one copy for public
inspection and shall forward the remaining copies to the Zoning Administrator.
Sheet size shall be at least 22 inches by 34 inches. In addition, at least one
11-inch by 17-inch submittal that is reproducible shall be filed with the City.
   2.   The Zoning Administrator shall provide copies of the plat to the City
Engineer and such other persons as are necessary to review the plat and shall
schedule the plat for review by the City Council.
   3.   The Zoning Administrator and the City Engineer shall examine the plat
as to its compliance with the ordinances and standards of the City and its
conformance with the preliminary plat and shall set forth their findings in
writing. A copy of the findings shall be provided to the subdivider and the
Planning and Zoning Commission for review prior to review by the Council. The
Commission shall then review the plat and shall forward a written
recommendation thereon to the Council within 45 days of the filing of the plat
with the Clerk. If the recommendation is to disapprove the plat or to require
modification of the plat, the reasons therefor shall be set forth in writing
and a copy of the recommendation shall be provided to the subdivider. Five
copies of the corrected plat shall be due within 30 days of Council action.
   4.   Upon receipt of the plat and written reports thereon, the Council shall
review the plat and attachments thereto. If the plat is found to conform to the
ordinances and standards of the City and the comprehensive plan and other
adopted plans, all as of the date of approval of the preliminary plat and is
found to substantially conform to the preliminary plat, the Council shall
approve the plat, and shall cause its approval to be entered on the plat as
required by law.
   5.   Action on the final plat by the Council shall be taken within 60 days
of the date of filing of the plat with the Clerk, unless such time period is
extended by agreement between the subdivider and the City. If the action is to
disapprove the plat, the reasons therefor shall be set forth in the official
records of the Council and such decision shall be provided to the subdivider.
170.37 VARIANCES.
    Where, in the case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown
that strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider, because of unusual topography and
other conditions, the Council may vary, modify or waive the requirements so
that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided,
however, such variance, modification or waiver shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter. In no case shall any
variance or modification be more than minimum easing of the requirements as
necessary to eliminate the hardship. In granting a variance, the Council may
impose such additional conditions as are necessary to secure substantially the
objectives of the requirements so varied, modified or waived.
170.38 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
    This chapter or any provision of this chapter may be changed or amended
from time to time by the City Council, provided, however, that such changes or
amendments shall not become effective until after a public hearing has been
held, public notice of which shall have been published at least once, not less
than seven or more than 20 days before the date of the hearing.
170.39 LIMITATION OF PROVISIONS.  
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall serve to abrogate, limit, repeal or
otherwise modify any other ordinance or regulation except as expressly set
forth in this chapter. If any provision of this chapter conflicts with the
provisions of any other ordinance, regulation or statute, the more restrictive
shall apply.
 
