CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF GLENWOOD, IOWA
Adopted June 9, 2026, by Ordinance_No._939
 
Prepared By: Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
**** SUPPLEMENT RECORD ****
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date    Subject
Jul-26    69.08(148-149)          938      3-24-26 No Parking Zones
                                  939      6-9-26  Adopting Ordinance
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Right of Entry
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01 TITLE.
   This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Glenwood, Iowa.
1.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in this Code are defined in the Code of Iowa,
such definitions apply to their use in this Code unless such construction would
be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision. Other words and phrases used herein have the
following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in another portion of
this Code or unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the Council or repugnant to the context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   2.   “City” means the city of Glenwood, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Glenwood, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of the City of Glenwood, Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Glenwood, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Mills County, Iowa.
   8.   “IAC” means the Iowa Administrative Code.
   9.   “May” confers a power.
   10.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
   11.   “Must” states a requirement.
   12.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   13.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Glenwood, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance adopting this
Code, and those enacted hereafter.
   14.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   15.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   16.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   17.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   18.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   19.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   20.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03 CITY POWERS.
   The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if
not inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power
and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the
rights, privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and
convenience of its residents, and each and every provision of this Code shall
be deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of
the foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04 INDEMNITY.
   The applicant for any permit or license under this Code, by making such
application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death of any person
or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property whatsoever,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising from or
related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the permit or
license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such applicant,
or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by or comply
with any of the provisions of this Code or the terms and conditions of such
permit or license, and such applicant, by making such application, forever
agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and employees, and
agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands, lawsuits, or
liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death, including all
costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing. The provisions
of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or license issued
under this Code or any other ordinance of the City, whether expressly recited
therein or not.
1.05 PERSONAL INJURIES.
   When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to
have been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person
by whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this Code, the rules of statutory construction as set
forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to ascertain the
intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term “statute” as used
therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term “ordinance” when applied
to this Code.
1.07 EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code the provision shall be construed as authorizing
performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly authorized designee
of said officer or employee.
1.08 AMENDMENTS.
   All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code shall
include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or paragraph to
maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09 CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code, titles, headings
(chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references, and State
law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself, contained in
this Code, do not constitute any part of the law and are intended merely to
indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents of a section.
1.10 ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages,
or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner that
will cause the law of the City to be misrepresented.
1.11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or part of this Code is adjudged invalid or
unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of this Code
as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof not adjudged invalid or
unconstitutional.
1.12 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   1.   Right of Entry. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
ordinance, or whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that there exists
an ordinance violation in any building or upon any premises within the
jurisdiction of the City, any authorized official of the City may, upon
presentation of proper credentials, enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same and to perform any duty imposed upon such
official by ordinance; provided, except in emergencies, such official shall
first give the owner or occupant, if they can be located after reasonable
effort, 24-hour written notice of the authorized official’s intention to
inspect. In the event the owner or occupant refuses entry, the official is
empowered to seek assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in
obtaining such entry.
   2.   Warrants. If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure,
or property pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having
the lawful right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to
enter upon or conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in
and for the County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an
administrative search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other
person having charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit,
structure, building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a
search warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.14)
1.13 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
   Whenever this Code grants any discretionary power to the Council or any
commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not specify
standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be exercised in
light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant, deny, or
revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and circumstances
then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due consideration shall
be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and welfare, and the
decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under similar
circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14 STANDARD PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code for violation of
any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing to perform a
duty required by this Code or otherwise violating any provision of this Code or
any rule or regulation adopted herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of at least $105.00 but not to exceed $855.00. The court may
order imprisonment not to exceed 30 days in lieu of a fine or in addition to a
fine.† 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3(2) and 903.1(1)(a))
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code, see
  Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Glenwood, Iowa.† 2
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 404 adopting a charter for the City was passed and
2 approved by the Council on June 24, 1975, and was published on July 2, 1975, in
  the Glenwood Opinion Tribune.
2.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of two Council Members elected at large and one Council
Member from each of three wards as established by this Code of Ordinances,
elected for overlapping terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05 TERM OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06 COPIES ON FILE.
   The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the
official records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies
of the charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1(3))
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.04 Civil Citations
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.05 Alternative Relief
3.03 Penalties               3.06 Alternative Penalties
 
3.01 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   A violation of this Code or any ordinance or code herein adopted by
reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by the
same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under State
law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or a
simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.† 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22(3))
 
Notes
3 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code, see Section
  1.14.
3.02 ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
   A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of
Iowa or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the
Department of Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental
violation. However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable
until the City has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding
the violation or to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22(1))
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03 PENALTIES.
   A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22(1))
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00.
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00.
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
   2.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04 CIVIL CITATIONS.
   Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code may issue a civil
citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the citation
may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.305,
by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s last known mailing
address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the manner as provided
in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the conditions of Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be retained by the issuing
officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the Clerk of the District
Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a civil offense has been
committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22(4))
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
   If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to
the condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local
housing regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or
safety violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District
Court, the City shall also file the citation in the office of the County
Treasurer.
3.05 ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22(9))
3.06 ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
   This chapter does not preclude a police officer from issuing a criminal
citation for a violation of this Code or regulation if criminal penalties are
also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit the authority of
the City to enforce the provisions of this Code by criminal sanctions or other
lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[12])
CHAPTER 4 
WARDS
4.01   DIVISION INTO WARDS.
   The City is divided into three wards described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 372.13[7])
   1.   First Ward.
   The first ward and first precinct include all territory and land within the
municipality lying south of the following described line: Beginning at the
centerline intersection of Hickory Ridge Drive and Hilman Road; thence
southeasterly along the eastern boundary line of Hickory Ridge Subdivision and
the existing corporate limit line to the westerly line of Lot 6 of Bradley and
Bowman’s Addition of Lot 14 and the existing corporate limit line; thence
easterly along said corporate limit line to a point on the east line of said
Bradley and Bowman's Addition of Lot 14; thence northerly along the existing
corporate limit line to the intersection of the centerline of Green Street and
west corporate limits; thence easterly along the centerline of Green Street to
the centerline of Grove Street; thence northerly along the centerline of Grove
Street to the centerline of Coolidge Street; thence easterly along the
centerline of Coolidge Street to the centerline of Walnut Street; thence
northerly along the centerline of Walnut Street to the centerline of Third
Street; thence easterly along the centerline of Third Street to the centerline
of Linn Street; thence northerly along the centerline of Linn Street to the
centerline of Fourth Street; thence easterly along the centerline of Fourth
Street to the east corporate limits.
   2.   Second Ward.
   The second ward and second precinct include all the territory and land
within the municipality lying north and west of the following described line:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Green Street and the west
corporate limits; thence easterly along the centerline of Green Street to the
centerline of Grove Street; thence northerly along the centerline of Grove
Street to the centerline of Coolidge Street; thence easterly along the
centerline of Coolidge Street to the centerline of Walnut Street; thence
northerly along the centerline of Walnut Street to the centerline of Fourth
Street; thence westerly along the centerline of Fourth Street to the centerline
of Locust Street, thence northerly along the centerline of Locust Street to the
north corporate limits, includes census block 191290403011005 - from Glenwood
Township.
   3.   Third Ward.
   The third ward and third precinct include all territory and within the
municipality lying east and north of the following described line: Beginning at
the intersection of the centerline of Locust Street and the north corporate
limits; thence southerly along the centerline of Locust Street to the
centerline of Fourth Street; thence easterly along the centerline of Fourth
Street to the centerline of Walnut Street; thence southerly along the
centerline of Walnut Street to the centerline of Third Street; thence easterly
along the centerline of Third Street to the centerline of Linn Street; thence
northerly along the centerline of Linn Street to the centerline of Fourth
Street; thence easterly along the centerline of Fourth Street to the east
corporate limits.
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings
 
5.01 OATHS.
   The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
   2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Glenwood as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
   3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
      A.   Mayor.
      B.   City Clerk.
      C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02 BONDS.
   Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable except as allowed in Subsection 5.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23(6))
   4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24(1)(a))
   5.   Insurance Policy in Lieu of Bond. In lieu of a bond, a public officer
required to obtain a bond pursuant to Chapter 64 of the Code of Iowa may obtain
an insurance policy in an amount not less than the amounts required of a bond.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.3)
5.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code, or as otherwise directed by the Council unless
contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
5.04 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open
to examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05 TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
   Each officer shall transfer to their successor in office all books, papers,
records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and appertaining to
that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
5.06 MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   1.   Definitions. The following terms are defined for use in this section.
      A.   “Closed session” means a meeting to which all members of the public
do not have access as allowed by Section 21.5 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   “Hybrid meeting” means a meeting involving both remote participation
and in-person participation by members.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(a))
      C.   “Open session” means a meeting to which all members of the public
have access.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.2(3)
      D.   “Remote participation” means real-time participation by a remotely
located individual in a meeting which is being held in a different physical
location using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(b))
      E.   “Reasonable notice” means advising the news media who have filed a
request for notice with the governmental body and posting the notice on a
bulletin board or other prominent place which is easily accessible to the
public and clearly designated for that purpose at the principal office of the
body holding the meeting, or if not such office exists, at the building in
which the meeting is to be held.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4(1))
      F.   “Teleconference participation” means participation using audio
conference tools involving multiple participants in at least two separate
locations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(c))
      G.   “Virtual meeting” means a meeting involving real-time interaction
using integrated audio, video, and other digital tools, in which participants
do not share a physical location.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8(4)(d))
   2.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice of the time, date, and place of
each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   3.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time,
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   5.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   6.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   7.   Electronic Meetings. A governmental body shall provide for hybrid
meetings, teleconference participation, virtual meetings, remote participation,
and other hybrid options for the members of the governmental body to
participate in official meetings. A governmental body conducting a meeting
pursuant to this subsection shall comply with all of the provisions of Chapter
21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect,
in any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services
to be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer, volunteer firefighter as defined in Section 85.61 of the Code of Iowa,
emergency medical care provider as defined in Section 147A.1 of the Code of
Iowa, or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding of
which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law. This subsection shall not be construed to prohibit nominal stipends,
compensation, incentives, or benefits for volunteer firefighters or emergency
medical care providers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(a))
   2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(b))
   3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(c))
   4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(e))
   5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(f))
   6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(g))
   7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(h))
   8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(i))
   9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(d))
   10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(j))
   11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(k))
   12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5(3)(l))
5.08 RESIGNATIONS.
   An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a
resignation in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and
considered. A person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for
appointment to the same office during the time for which the person was elected
if, during that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(9))
5.09 REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10 VACANCIES.
   A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled
in accordance with Section 372.13(2) of the Code of Iowa.
5.11 GIFTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
 
6.01 NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
   All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02 NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
   Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 25 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03 ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
   The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04 PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
   Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy.
The petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5, and 45.6)
6.05 FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
   The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of
validity thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the
effect of such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of
such petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by
the appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06 PERSONS ELECTED.
   The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on
the ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8(3))
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose                      7.06 Budget Amendments
7.02 Finance Officer              7.07 Accounting
7.03 Cash Control                 7.08 Financial Reports
7.04 Fund Control                 7.09 Setoff Program Provisions
7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
 
7.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules
and regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02 FINANCE OFFICER.
   The City Administrator is the finance and accounting officer of the City and
is responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03 CASH CONTROL.
   To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following
shall apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the Finance Officer. If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the Finance Officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
   2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, and 12C.1)
   3.   Petty Cash Fund. The Finance Officer shall be custodian of a petty cash
fund not to exceed $100.00 for the payment of small claims for minor purchases,
collect-on-delivery transportation charges and small fees customarily paid at
the time of rendering a service for which payments the Finance Officer shall
obtain some form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or
agent. At such time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the
Finance Officer shall draw a check for replenishment in the amount of the
accumulated expenditures and said check and supporting detail shall be
submitted to the Council as a claim in the usual manner for claims and charged
to the proper funds and accounts. It shall not be used for salary payments or
other personal services or personal expenses.
7.04 FUND CONTROL.
   There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
   3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(545 IAC 2.5(2))
   4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5(3))
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited
by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5(4))
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(545 IAC 2.5(5))
   7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05 OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
   The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared. The Finance Officer is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the Finance Officer
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council. The Finance Officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
   4.   Annual Statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A(2))
      A.   On or before 4:00 p.m. on March 5 of each year, the City shall file,
with the Department of Management, a report containing all necessary
information for the Department of Management to compile and calculate amounts
required to be included in the statement mailed under Paragraph B.
      B.   Not later than March 15, the County Auditor, using information
compiled and calculated by the Department of Management shall send to each
property owner or taxpayer within the County, by regular mail, an individual
statement containing all of the required information as provided under Section
24.2A(2)(b)(1-10) of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the report
required under Paragraph A, the statements to be mailed under Paragraph B, and
the public hearing notice required under Paragraph D.
      D.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
City’s proposed property tax amount for the budget year and the City’s
information included in the statements under Paragraph B. The proposed property
tax hearing shall be set on a date on or after March 20 of the budget year
immediately preceding the budget year for which the tax is being proposed. At
the hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written testimony from any
resident or property owner of the City. This public hearing shall be separate
from any other meeting of the Council, including any other meeting or public
hearing relating to the City’s budget, and other business of the City that is
not related to the proposed property tax amounts and the information in the
statements shall not be conducted at the public hearing. After all testimony
has been received and considered, the governing body may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed property tax amount to be included in the City’s budget.
         (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published not less than
four or more than 20 days in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City. However, if the City has a population
of 200 or less, publication may be made by posting in three public places in
the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A(4)(b)(2))
         (2)   Notice of the hearing shall also be posted and clearly
identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on the date
of the newspaper publication and shall be maintained on the City’s internet
site with all such prior year notices.
         (3)   Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on
one or more social media applications, the public hearing notice or an
electronic link to the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such
account on a date no later than the date of publication of the notice.
         (4)   Failure of a newspaper to publish a required notice under this
paragraph shall not be considered a failure of a political subdivision to
provide required notice under this paragraph if all of the following conditions
are met:
            a.   Notice of the public hearing was provided to each property
owner and each taxpayer within the political subdivision in statements required
under Section 24.2A(2)(b) of the Code of Iowa.
            b.   The political subdivision can demonstrate to the county
auditor that the political subdivision provided sufficient time for the
newspaper to publish the notice.
   5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until completion of requirements,
of Subsection 4 of this section, the Council shall set a time and place for
public hearing on the budget to be held before April 30 and shall publish
notice of the hearing not less than four or more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice. Proof of publication of the notice under this
subsection must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16(3))
   7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16(2))
   8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt,
by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing, unless an additional tax levy is approved at a City election.
Two copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate
must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16(5))
7.06 BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
   A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes
effective July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and
purpose specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(545 IAC 2.2)
   2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(545 IAC 2.3)
   3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(545 IAC 2.4)
   4.   Administrative Transfers. The Finance Officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
7.07 ACCOUNTING.
   The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
   2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
   3.   Checks. Checks shall be prenumbered and signed by the Finance Officer
and Mayor following Council approval, except as provided by Subsection 5
hereof.
   4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize
the Finance Officer to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which
if not paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment
or additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
   6.   Utilities. The Finance Officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities, including those
utilities under the control and management of the Utility Board of Trustees.
   7.   Payroll and Personnel Records. The Finance Officer shall issue payroll,
maintain personnel records and file proper reports as required by law.
7.08 FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   The Finance Officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. The Annual Financial Report shall be
prepared on forms and pursuant to instructions prescribed by the Auditor of
State. Beginning with the Annual Financial Report published by December 1,
2025, each report shall include a list of bonds, notes, or other obligations
issued by the City during the most recently completed fiscal year, and the
applicable lists for other fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2024, for
which obligations remain unpaid, payable from any source, including the amount
of the issuance, the project or purpose of the issuance, whether the issuance
was approved at election, eligible to be subject to a petition for an election,
or was exempt from approval at election as the result of statutory exclusions
based on population of the City or amount of the issuance, and identification
of issuances from the fiscal year or prior fiscal years related to the same
project or purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
7.09 SETOFF PROGRAM PROVISIONS.
   This section shall establish policies and procedures for the City pursuant
to Section 421.65 of the Code of Iowa, to allow the City to utilize and invoke
the setoff program provisions of the State for collection of debts owed to the
City and for which the City has provided the obligor with an opportunity to
contest.
   1.   Definitions. The following terms are defined for use in this section:
      A.   “Department” means the State Department of Revenue.
      B.   “Obligor” means a person, not including a public agency, who has
been determined to owe a qualifying debt.
      C.   “Public agency” means a board, commission, department, including the
Department of Revenue, or other administrative office or unit of the State or
any other State entity reported in the Iowa Annual Comprehensive Financial
Report, or a political subdivision of the State, or an office or unit of a
political subdivision. Public agency does include the Clerk of the District
Court as it relates to the collection of a qualifying debt. Public agency does
not include the general assembly or Office of the Governor.
      D.   “Public payment” means any claim a public agency owes to an obligor.
      E.   “Qualifying debt” means any of the following:
         (1)   Any debt, which is assigned to the Department of Health and
Human Services, or which is owed to the Department of Health and Human Services
for unpaid premiums under Section 249A.3(2)(a)(1) of the Code of Iowa, or which
child support services is otherwise attempting to collect, or which foster care
services of the Department of Health and Human Services is attempting to
collect on behalf of a child receiving foster care provided by the Department
of Health and Human Services.
         (2)   Any debt which is in the form of a liquidated sum due, owing,
and payable to the Clerk of the District Court.
         (3)   Any liquidated sum certain, owning, and payable to a public
agency, with respect to which the public agency has provided the obligor an
opportunity to protest or challenge the sum in a manner in compliance with
applicable law and due process, and which has been determined as owing through
the challenge or protest, or for which the time period provided by the public
agency to challenge, or protest has expired.
   2.   Memorandum of Understanding. The City shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding with the Department which shall outline the program guidelines
for use of the State Setoff Program.
   3.   Qualifying Debt. The Clerk shall only certify to the Department
qualifying debt as approved by the Department through the completion of a
qualifying debt questionnaire and for which the City has provided appropriate
documentation showing the City’s legal authority for charging, implementing a
fine or fee for violation of, or imposing costs related to the abatement of
certain conditions when appropriate legal authority exists to the City. The
qualifying debt questionnaire may be updated from time to time as required by
the City to add or remove qualifying debt or as needed by the Department.
   4.   Due Process. Prior to submission of a debt to the Department the City
shall provide the obligor due process as outlined in this section prior to the
submission of a debt:
      A.   With respect to the qualifying debt, the City shall provide the
obligor with 15 days’ advance written notice to the obligor’s last-known
address. Such notice shall provide the obligor with a minimum period of 15 days
in which they may file an appeal in writing to the Clerk.
      B.   Upon receipt of a written request for an appeal on a debt to be
submitted to the Setoff Program the Clerk shall schedule a hearing with the
Council for the next regularly scheduled meeting and notify the obligor of the
hearing date and time at least five days in advance of the hearing.
      C.   At the time and date of the hearing, the Council shall hear any
evidence brought forth by the obligor and shall examine the City’s file
regarding the matter. The Council shall make a ruling upon a majority vote of
the members in attendance.
      D.   If the qualifying debt is upheld by the Council and the debt has not
yet been paid by the obligor, the Clerk may certify the delinquency to the
Department pursuant to Section 421.65 of the Code of Iowa and the memorandum of
understanding between the City and the Department.
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
 
8.01 Purpose                        8.06 Applications
8.02 Definitions                    8.07 Approval
8.03 Period of Partial Exemption    8.08 Exemption Repealed
8.04 Amounts Eligible for Exemption 8.09 Dual Exemptions Prohibited
8.05 Limitations                     
 
8.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from
property taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the
new construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.
8.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first year
for which the exemption is received.
   2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used primarily for
the storage of goods that are intended for subsequent shipment to retail
outlets. Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used
primarily to store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer
to store goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the
storage of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
   3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and includes new
buildings and structures that are constructed as additions to existing
buildings and structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of
an existing building or structure that does not constitute complete replacement
of an existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure unless the reconstruction of an existing building or structure is
required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is necessary to
implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and processing of
specific products and the reconstruction is required for the owner of the
building or structure to continue competitively to manufacture or process those
products, which determination shall receive prior approval from the Council.
   4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including (but not
limited to) the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use and corporate research services that do not have a primary
purpose of providing on-site services to the public.
   5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public warehouse
for the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the Code of
Iowa, except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
8.03 PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
   The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five years. The exemption shall also apply to the acquisition
of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant
to Section 427A.1(1)(e) of the Code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment
is part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand
the existing operational status.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.04 AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.
   The amount of actual value added, which is eligible to be exempt from
taxation, shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
   1.   For the first year, 75 percent.
   2.   For the second year, 60 percent.
   3.   For the third year, 45 percent.
   4.   For the fourth year, 30 percent.
   5.   For the fifth year, 15 percent.
8.05 LIMITATIONS.
   The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.06 APPLICATIONS.
   An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value
added for which an exemption is claimed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
   1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the
property with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which
the value added is first assessed for taxation.
   2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.
8.07 APPROVAL.
   A person may submit a proposal to the Council to receive prior approval for
eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. If the Council resolves to
consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold a public hearing
thereon. Thereafter, at least 30 days after such hearing, the Council, by
ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new construction
if the new construction is in conformance with City zoning. Such prior approval
shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation until the new
construction has been completed and found to be qualified real estate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
8.08 EXEMPTION REPEALED.
   When in the opinion of the Council continuation of the exemption granted by
this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the Council may repeal this
chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their expiration.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)
8.09 DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.
   A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property tax
exemption authorized by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)
CHAPTER 9
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            NAME OF AREA
506           April 11, 1989     Glenwood Urban Renewal District No. 1/
                                 Industrial
507           April 11, 1989     Glenwood Urban Renewal District No. 2/
                                 Residential
508           April 11, 1989     Glenwood Urban Renewal District No. 3/
                                 Residential
514           November 14, 1989  Glenwood Urban Renewal District No. 4/
                                 Industrial/Commercial
520           June 12, 1990      Glenwood Urban Renewal District No. 5/
                                 Industrial/Commercial
533           June 25, 1991      1991 Addition to Glenwood Urban Renewal
                                 District No. 3/Residential
560           August 23, 1994    1994 Addition to Glenwood Urban Renewal
                                 District No. 3/Residential
561           August 23, 1994    1994 Addition to Glenwood Urban Renewal
                                 District No. 2/Residential
564           October 11, 1994   1994 Addition to Glenwood Urban Renewal
                                 District No. 4/Industrial/ Commercial
782           September 26, 2006 Glenwood Urban Renewal Area No. 6
892           October 8, 2019    Oak Ridge Park Urban Renewal Area
902           June 23, 2020      Glenwood Urban Renewal District No. 1/
                                 Industrial
906           June 22, 2021      Glenwood Urban Renewal District No. 2/
                                 Residential
909           September 14, 2021 Glenwood Urban Renewal District No. 3/
                                 Residential
917           March 8, 2022      Glenwood Urban Renewal District No. 4/
                                 Industrial/Commercial
 
CHAPTER 10
URBAN REVITALIZATION
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           NAME OF AREA
727           August 12, 2003   Glen Haven Revitalization Area
862           July 8, 2014      Glenwood Urban Revitalization Area
880           August 8, 2017    Glenwood Urban Revitalization Area
887           November 20, 2018 Glenwood Urban Revitalization Area
 
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
   1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
give direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments,
and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14(1))
   2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14(2))
   3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14(1))
   4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain
the reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the
veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6(2))
   5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf
of the City.
   8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City
such specialized and professional services not already available to the City.
In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with
this Code and the laws of the State.
   9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
   10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
   11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Mayor shall appoint the Mayor Pro Tem and shall also appoint, subject to
Council approval, the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
   1.   Police Chief.
   2.   Police Officers.
   3.   Library Board of Trustees.
   4.   Utility Board of Trustees.
   5.   Cemetery Board.
   6.   Park Commission.
   7.   Community Tree Board.
15.04 COMPENSATION.
   The salary of the Mayor is $8,125.00 per year, paid annually.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(8))
15.05 VOTING.
   The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01 VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14(3))
16.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem
shall perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the
Mayor to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the
Mayor Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from
employment officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint,
employ, or discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14(3))
16.03 VOTING RIGHTS.
   The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14(3))
16.04 COMPENSATION.
   If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(8))
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01 NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of two Council Members elected at large and one Council
Member from each of three wards as established by this Code, elected for
overlapping terms of four years.
17.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2(1))
   2.   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based
upon population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(7))
   3.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2(1), 384.16, and 384.38(1))
   4.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2(1))
   5.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 26)
   6.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or this Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
   7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(8))
17.03 EXERCISE OF POWER.
   The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3(1))
   1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6(2))
   3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6(1)(a))
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6(1)(b))
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6(1)(c))
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6(2))
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage,
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6(3))
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1(a))
17.04 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06. Additional particulars relating to Council meetings are the following:
   1.   Regular Meetings. The regular meetings of the Council shall be on the
second and fourth Tuesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers at
City Hall. If such day shall fall on a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held
on the next succeeding day at the same time unless a different day or time is
determined by the Council.
   2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor
or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(5))
   3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(1))
   4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(5))
   5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their
powers, duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Clerk.
   2.   City Attorney.
   3.   City Administrator.
   4.   Planning and Zoning Commission.
   5.   Fire Chief.
   6.   Zoning Board of Adjustment.
17.06 COMPENSATION.
   The salary of each Council member is $50.00 for each meeting of the Council
attended, payable annually.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(8))
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification
 
18.01 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   At its first meeting in January following the regular City election, the
Council shall appoint by majority vote a Clerk to serve for a term of two
years. The Clerk shall receive such compensation as established by resolution
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(3))
18.02 POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
   The Clerk (or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk)
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code, and the law.
18.03 PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
   Within fifteen days following a regular or special meeting of the Council,
the Clerk shall cause the minutes of the proceedings of the Council, including
the total expenditure from each City fund, to be delivered to a newspaper of
general circulation in the City for publication. The publication shall include
a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall show the
gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(6))
18.04 RECORDING MEASURES.
   The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7(1) and (2))
18.05 OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
   The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments,
proceedings, and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
   1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code or law, the notice must be published at least once, not
less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the election, hearing,
or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code or law must
be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general circulation
in the City.
18.06 AUTHENTICATION.
   The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7(4))
18.07 CERTIFICATION.
   The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district,
building lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or
limits to the recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08 RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7(5))
   2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
   3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents (or accurate
reproductions) for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions)
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions) relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(3) and (5))
   4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper, or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4) and (5) and 380.7(5))
   5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
18.09 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
18.10 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which shall show date of
issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number, name of person to
whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
18.11 NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
   The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to
offices in the City government of their positions and the time at which they
shall assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
18.12 ELECTIONS.
   The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13 CITY SEAL.
   The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the
Clerk to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or
proper to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of
which are the words “SEAL” and around the margin of which are the words “CITY
SEAL OF GLENWOOD, MILLS COUNTY, IOWA.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
 
19.01 Purpose             19.05 Powers and Duties
19.02 Appointment         19.06 Council Relations
19.03 Compensation        19.07 Council Reports
19.04 Chief Administrator  
 
19.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the appointment, powers, and
duties of the City Administrator.
19.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The Council shall, by majority vote of the entire Council at a regular
meeting, appoint a City Administrator to serve at the discretion of the
Council. Such appointment must be made on the basis of qualifications and not
on the basis of political affiliation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.6 and 372.13(4))
19.03 COMPENSATION.
   The City Administrator shall receive such annual salary as the Council shall
from time to time determine by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
19.04 CHIEF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Administrator is the chief administrative officer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(1))
19.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Administrator shall exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   City Laws. Supervise enforcement and execution of City laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(2)(a))
   2.   Council Meetings. Attend all meetings of the Council unless excused by
the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(2)(b))
   3.   Recommendations. Recommend to the Council such measures as the
Administrator may deem necessary or expedient for the good government and
welfare of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(2)(c))
   4.   Supervision. Supervise the official conduct of all officers of the City
who are appointed by the City Administrator and take active control of the
departments of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(2)(d))
   5.   Contracts. Supervise the performance of all contracts for work to be
done for the City, make all purchases of material and supplies, and see that
such material and supplies are received and are of the quality and character
called for by the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(2)(e))
   6.   Property and Improvements. Supervise the construction, improvement,
repair, maintenance, and management of all City property, capital improvements,
and undertakings of the City, including the making and preservation of all
surveys, maps, plans, drawings, specifications, and estimates for capital
improvements, except property, improvements and undertakings managed by a
Utility Board of Trustees.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(2)(f))
   7.   Cooperation. Cooperate with any administrative agency or board of
trustees.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(2)(g))
   8.   Streets and Solid Waste. Be responsible for the cleaning, sprinkling,
and lighting of streets, alleys, and public places, and the collection and
disposal of waste.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(2)(h))
   9.   Licenses and Permits. Provide for and cause records to be kept of the
issuance and revocation of licenses and permits authorized by City law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(2)(i))
   10.   Advise Council. Keep the Council fully advised of the financial and
other conditions of the City, and of its future needs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(2)(j))
   11.   Budget. Prepare and submit to the Council annually the required
budgets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2k])
   12.   Accounting. Conduct the business affairs of the City and cause
accurate records to be kept by modern and efficient accounting methods.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(2)(1))
   13.   Financial Reports. Make to the Council monthly itemized financial
reports in writing, showing the receipts and disbursements for the preceding
month. Copies of financial reports must be available at the Clerk’s office for
public distribution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(2)(m))
   14.   Administrative Assistants. Appoint administrative assistants, with the
approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(3)(a))
   15.   Employees. Employ, reclassify, or discharge all employees (except the
Clerk, City Attorney, and Police Chief) and fix their compensation, subject to
Council approval and Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(3)(b))
   16.   Appointments. Appoint or employ persons to fill all places for which
no other mode of appointment is provided, and administer oaths of office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(3)(c) and (3)(b))
   17.   Dismissal of Employees. Suspend or discharge summarily any officer,
appointee, or employee that the Administrator has power to appoint or employ,
subject to Council concurrence.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(3)(d))
   18.   Investigations. Summarily and without notice, investigate the affairs
and conduct of any department, agency, officer, or employee under the
Administrator’s supervision, and compel the production of evidence and
attendance of witnesses.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(3)(e))
   19.   Oaths. Administer oaths.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8(3)(f))
   20.   Operations and Organizations. Continuously study the City’s operating
procedures, organizations, and facilities and recommend fiscal and other
policies to the Council whenever necessary.
   21.   Inform Council. Keep the Council informed on the progress of its
programs and status of its policies.
   22.   Coordination. Coordinate and direct all municipal services provided
through the various departments.
   23.   Planning. Assist the Council and the Planning and Zoning Commission in
the carrying out of the comprehensive plan and assist in all other forms of
planning within the City government.
   24.   Boards and Commissions. Carry on the management of any present board
or commission if such board or commission is abolished or ceases to exist.
19.06 COUNCIL RELATIONS.
   The City Administrator shall not take part in any election for Council
Member, other than by casting a vote, and shall not appoint a Council Member to
City office or employment, nor shall a Council Member accept such appointment.
19.07 COUNCIL REPORTS.
   The City Administrator shall be directly responsible to the Council for the
administration of municipal affairs as directed by that body. All departmental
activity requiring the attention of the Council shall be brought before the
body by the Administrator and all Council involvement in administration
initiated by the Council must be coordinated through the City Administrator.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.05 Review and Comment
20.02 Attorney for City            20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.08 Prepare Documents
 
20.01 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
discretion of the Council. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.02 ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
   The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters
affecting the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any
court, tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or
defend all actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.03 POWER OF ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.04 ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
   The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.05 REVIEW AND COMMENT.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving
an opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to
or coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.06 PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
   The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor or Council or City Administrator.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.07 ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
20.08 PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts,
forms, and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
CHAPTER 21
CEMETERY AND CEMETERY BOARD
 
21.01 Establishment               21.08 Fees, Charges, and Payments
21.02 Cemetery Board              21.09 Perpetual Care
21.03 Employment                  21.10 Care of Lots
21.04 Trusteeship                 21.11 Interments
21.05 Establishment of Trust Fund 21.12 General Regulations
21.06 Records                     21.13 Liability
21.07 Sale of Lots                 
 
21.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
The cemetery ground located on the following described property:
The South 430 feet of the West 338.6 feet of the SW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Section
1; and the North 208.5 feet of the West 338.6 feet of the NW 1/4 NW 1/4 of
Section 12; and all that part of the South 430 feet of the East 996.7 feet of
the SE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Section 2 lying East of U.S. Hwy. 275; Lot 2 and all that
part of the North 839 feet of Lot 1 of the NE 1/4 NE 1/4 of Section 11 lying
East of said U.S. Hwy. 275, all located in Township 72 North, Range 43 West of
the 5th Principal meridian, Mills County, Iowa.
is hereby established as the Glenwood Municipal Cemetery under the provisions
of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and which shall be operated under the
provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.501)
21.02 CEMETERY BOARD.
   1.   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to Council approval, three persons to
serve as members of the Cemetery Board for a period of three years.
   2.   No public officer or salaried employee of the City may serve as a Board
member.
   3.   Any vacancy on the Board will be filled in the same manner as an
original appointment except that such appointment shall be for the balance of
the unexpired term.
   4.   It will be the duty of the Cemetery Board to coordinate the
administration, maintenance, and policies of the Glenwood Municipal Cemetery.
   5.   The Cemetery Board will meet once a month on a regularly scheduled
basis.
21.03 EMPLOYMENT.
   1.   The Sexton of the Glenwood Municipal Cemetery will be hired and
dismissed from such position only with approval of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   The salary of the Sexton will be set and approved by the Mayor and
Council.
   3.   Any part-time employment may be secured by the Sexton with approval of
the Council.
   4.   Any duties other than the Sexton’s job description will be assigned by
the City Administrator.
21.04 TRUSTEESHIP.
   Pursuant to Section 523I.502 of the Code of Iowa, the City hereby states its
willingness and intention to act as the trustee of the perpetual maintenance of
interment spaces at the Glenwood Municipal Cemetery.
21.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF TRUST FUND.
   1.   A perpetual trust is hereby established for the Glenwood Municipal
Cemetery in accordance with Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa, the Iowa Cemetery
Act. A restricted fund is created for the cemetery, to be known and designated
as the perpetual care cemetery fund. The perpetual care cemetery fund shall be
funded by the deposit of an amount equal to or greater than 20 percent of the
gross selling price, or $50.00, whichever is more for each sale of interment
spaces within the cemetery. The fund shall be administered in accordance with
the purpose and provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   The perpetual care fund shall be maintained separate from all operating
funds of the cemetery and the principal of the fund shall not be reduced
voluntarily except as specifically permitted by the Iowa Cemetery Act and
applicable administrative regulations.
   3.   The Council, by resolution, shall provide for the payment of interest
annually to the appropriate fund to be used in caring for or maintaining the
individual property of the donor in the cemetery, or interment space which have
been sold with provisions for perpetual care, all in accordance with the terms
of the donation or bequest, or the terms of the sale or purchase of an
interment space and Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa.
21.06 RECORDS.
   1.   It is the duty of the Clerk to make and keep a permanent record of all
interments made in the cemetery, which record shall at all times be open to
public inspection. The record shall, among other things, include:
      A.   Plat. An accurate plat of the cemetery;
      B.   Lot Owners. The names of the owners of all lots that have been sold
including the amounts deposited in the perpetual care cemetery fund;
      C.   Lot Descriptions. The correct description of all lots for sale and
the price thereof, as shall be fixed by the Council; and
      D.   Grave Locations. The exact location of each grave upon each cemetery
lot.
   2.   It is the duty of the Clerk to make and keep a complete records
identifying the owners of all certificates of interment rights sold by the
cemetery and historical information regarding any transfers of ownership. The
records shall, among other things, include:
      A.   Sales or Transfers of Certificates of Interment Rights
         (1)   The name and last known address of each owner or previous owner
of interment rights.
         (2)   The date of each purchase or transfer of interment rights.
         (3)   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space sold by the cemetery.
      B.   Interments.
         (1)   The date the remains are interred.
         (2)   The name, date of birth and the date of death of the decedent
interred, if those facts can be conveniently obtained.
         (3)   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space where the remains are interred.
21.07 SALE OF LOTS.
   The sale of lots in the cemetery shall be evidenced by a certificate of
interment rights signed and executed by the Clerk for and on behalf of the
City, and it is the duty of the Clerk to collect the purchase price in full for
any lot sold before delivering the certificate of interment rights for the
same. No interment shall be made on any burial grave unless the same has been
paid for. The certificate of internment rights shall disclose the amount of
percentage of money to be placed in the Perpetual Care Fund.
21.08 FEES, CHARGES, AND PAYMENTS.
   1.   The payment of all fees and charges shall be made at the office of the
Clerk where receipts will be issued for all amounts paid.
   2.   The Council shall, from time to time, as deemed necessary by the
Council, fix a schedule of fees which shall be collected for work performed in
the cemetery under the jurisdiction of the City. The schedule of fees, so
fixed, from time to time as deemed necessary by the Council shall be placed on
file in the office of the Clerk and shall be available for inspection by the
general public.
   3.   The sale price of graves within the Glenwood Municipal Cemetery will be
determined annually by the Council.
21.09 PERPETUAL CARE.
   The term “perpetual care” shall be construed to mean the obligation which
the City assumes to each year expend the net annual income of the perpetual
care endowment set aside for the lot in furnishing such care as mowing and
maintaining grass, raking and cleaning the lot and adjacent alleys, and filling
of sunken graves. Where the income is sufficient it may be used in the
perpetual care of avenues, alleys, fences, buildings, and grounds in general.
Expenditures shall be made at the discretion of the and under the direction of
the Council and the City shall not be bound to make any separate investment of
the sum of money set aside as perpetual care, but the same shall be added to
the Perpetual Care Fund of the City and the proceeds therefrom used by the City
in the manner heretofore provided.
21.10 CARE OF LOTS.
   1.   The City shall have full care of all graves within the Glenwood
Municipal Cemetery.
   2.   There will be no planting of flowers, shrubs, or trees. No concrete,
ceramic or plastic pots. No iron hangers for hanging baskets will be allowed.
No permanent articles will be allowed without prior approval. No one may dig
holes for containers. Memorial Day decorations may be placed on graves the
Friday prior and may remain for one week after. Christmas decorations and
winter blankets must be removed by April 1. Any other decorations will be
removed on mowing day.
   3.   No litter of any kind shall be placed upon the cemetery grounds or
driveways.
21.11 INTERMENTS.
   1.   All interments shall comply with the laws of the State and the rules
and regulations of the State Board of Heath.
   2.   If any grave owner is or becomes a nonresident of the City, or in the
event of such person’s death should all of person's heirs be or become
nonresident, the Council may recognize any relative or family friend in
controlling interments and shall be responsible only for good faith in making
such recognition.
   3.   On graves owned by churches or benevolent societies any person may be
buried with the consent of the trustees of the trustees of the church or
benevolent society.
   4.   The Council gives authority to the Sexton of the cemetery to determine
who shall be qualified as a gravedigger in the cemetery. No grave shall be
opened without first obtaining permission from the Cemetery Sexton.
   5.   Burials are prohibited on Sundays and the City observed holidays of New
Years Eve, Presidents’ Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day and the day after, Christmas Day and the day
after.
   6.   Requests for the opening of graves shall be made to the Clerk’s office
24 hours before the funeral.
   7.   Prior to burial, the receptacle containing the body shall be placed in
an outside container consisting of a minimum construction of a concrete box. In
the event of cremation, prior to the cremation burial, the receptacle
containing the cremains shall be placed in an outside container consisting of a
minimum construction of a concrete vault or a high impact polymer plastic
vault.
   8.   Arrangements for internments shall be made by the owner of the burial
space, by a member or members of the family acting and authorized by law to act
for the owner, or by an authorized agent of the owner.
   9.   The City shall in no manner be liable for any delay in the interment of
a body where a protest to the interment has been made or where rules and
regulations of the cemetery have not been complied with. The City shall be
under no duty to recognize any protest of interment unless it is in writing and
filed with the Clerk. The City shall not be responsible for errors resulting
from orders or instructions given by telephone and the Clerk and Cemetery
Sexton may require such orders to be in writing before finalizing any action.
21.12 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   1.   To ensure a proper landscape effect, and to protect the mutual rights
of all grave owners, family monuments will be permitted on only lots of four
spaces or more.
   2.   Family monuments shall be placed as directed by the Cemetery Sexton.
   3.   The foundations for monuments, markers and headstones shall be
constructed in such a manner as to comply with the cemetery rules and
regulations set forth by the Council and shall be constructed under the
supervision of the Sexton.
   4.   Foundations for family monuments shall extend in depth three feet from
the top of the ground, and foundations for markers and headstones shall extend
two feet from the top of the ground, and there shall be a four-inch wash.
   5.   No monument shall exceed four feet six inches in height above lawn
grade, unless the design for the same shall have been first submitted to and
approved by the Cemetery Sexton.
   6.   Grave markers shall be placed on the grave line and the inscription
shall face the head of the lot.
   7.   Mausoleums are prohibited.
   8.   No monument shall be placed until the grave is fully paid for.
   9.   Veterans’ stickers shall be placed in concrete for permanent mounting.
   10.   No person shall drive any vehicle faster than 15 miles an hour or in a
careless manner upon the cemetery roads or drive anywhere except upon such
roads unless authorized by the sexton.
   11.   Persons shall walk only on roads and walkways or footpaths except when
absolutely necessary for maintenance of grave sites, inspection of plats,
installation of markers or decorations of graves, or funeral services.
   12.   No homemade markers shall be placed on any grave.
   13.   No discrimination shall be made between grave owners or prospective
purchasers of graves, but privileges of the cemetery shall at all times be open
to all persons upon equal terms, subject to rules and regulations herein.
21.13 LIABILITY.
   The City shall take reasonable precautions to protect lot owners and the
property rights of lot owners within the cemetery from loss or damage, but it
expressly shall not be liable for loss or damage beyond its control, and
particularly, from damage caused by the elements, acts of God, common enemy,
thieves, strikers, malicious mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable civil
disorder, whether the damage be direct or consequential.
CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
22.01 Public Library                   22.07 Nonresident Use
22.02 Library Trustees                 22.08 Expenditures
22.03 Qualifications of Trustees       22.09 Annual Report
22.04 Organization of the Board        22.10 Injury to Books or Property
22.05 Powers and Duties                22.11 Theft
22.06 Contracting with Other Libraries 22.12 Notice Posted
 
22.01 PUBLIC LIBRARY.
   The public library for the City is known as the Glenwood Public Library. It
is referred to in this chapter as the Library.
22.02 LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
   The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of four resident members and one nonresident member. All members are
to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council.
22.03 QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
   All resident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents
of the City. The nonresident member of the Board shall be a bona fide citizen
and resident of the Mills County. Members shall be over the age of 18 years.
22.04 ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
   The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
   1.   Term of Office. All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July 1. Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
   2.   Vacancies. The position of any resident Trustee shall be vacated if
such member moves permanently from the City. The position of a nonresident
Trustee shall be vacated if such member moves permanently from the County or
into the City. The position of any Trustee shall be deemed vacated if such
member is absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in
the case of sickness or temporary absence from the City or County. Vacancies in
the Board shall be filled in the same manner as an original appointment except
that the new Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the
appointment is made.
   3.   Compensation. Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services.
22.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary,
and such other officers as it deems necessary
   2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control, and supervision of the
Library, its appurtenances, fixtures, and rooms containing the same.
   3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
   4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a Library Director, and authorize the
Library Director to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary
for the proper management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided,
however, prior to such employment, the compensation of the Library Director,
assistants, and employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of
the members of the Board voting in favor thereof.
   5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the Library Director, by a two-thirds
vote of the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
   6.   Purchases. To select, or authorize the Library Director to select, and
make purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps,
journals, other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and
supplies for the Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
   7.   Use by Nonresidents. To authorize the use of the Library by
nonresidents and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service
exists.
   8.   Rules and Regulations. To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code and the law, for the
care, use, government, and management of the Library and the business of the
Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
   9.   Expenditures. To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds
allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys available by
gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of all other
moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected under the
rules of the Board.
   10.   Gifts. To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises, and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title
to said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
   11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts. To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises, and bequests accepted
by the City by action against the Council.
   12.   Record of Proceedings. To keep a record of its proceedings.
   13.   County Historical Association. To have authority to make agreements
with the local County historical association where such exists, and to set
apart the necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the
possession of the association. The Trustees are further authorized to purchase
necessary receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such
articles as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and
pay for the same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
22.06 CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
   The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Contracting. The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees
of free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 and Ch. 28E)
   2.   Termination. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election. The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract.
22.07 NONRESIDENT USE.
   The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of
the City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
   1.   Lending. By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee.
   2.   Depository. By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents.
   3.   Bookmobiles. By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that
books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
   4.   Branch Library. By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents.
22.08 EXPENDITURES.
   All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of
the Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library. Expenditures
shall be paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and
Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 and 392.5)
22.09 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of
the fiscal year. This report shall contain statements as to the condition of
the Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of
fines collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the
Library during the year, together with such further information as may be
required by the Council.
22.10 INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear,
deface, mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper,
periodical, book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture, or other property belonging to
the Library or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
22.11 THEFT.
   No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with
the intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
22.12 NOTICE POSTED.
   There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices
informing the public of the following:
   1.   Failure to Return. Failure to return Library materials for two months
or more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
   2.   Detention and Search. Persons concealing Library materials may be
detained and searched pursuant to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies                       
 
23.01 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.  
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of seven members, five of whom are residents of the City.
The resident members shall be appointed by the Council and shall not hold any
elective office in the City government. The additional two members of the
Commission are one member of the County Board of Supervisors and one resident
of the area outside the City over which the zoning jurisdiction of the City has
been extended, both appointed by the County Board of Supervisors.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6, 414.23, and 392.1)
23.02 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the members of the Commission is five years. The terms
of not more than one-half of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03 VACANCIES.
   If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise,
a successor for the remainder of the term shall be appointed in the same manner
as the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes, or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
   4.   Recommendations on Improvements.  The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid
out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the
Mayor and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 24
PARK COMMISSION
 
24.01 Park Board   24.06 Budget Certified
24.02 Term         24.07 Jurisdiction and Authority
24.03 Organization 24.08 Rules and Regulations
24.04 Treasurer    24.09 Procedures for Donated Projects
24.05 Compensation  
 
24.01 PARK BOARD.
   There shall be a Board of Park Commissioners (hereinafter “Park Board”) for
the City consisting of five persons of legal age. Not more than one said member
may reside outside the corporate limits of the City, and no such members shall
reside outside the City postal address area. All said members shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. The appointments by
the Mayor shall be made effective on January 1 of each year.
24.02 TERM.
   Initially, two Park Board members shall serve a term of three consecutive
years, two Park Board members shall serve a term of two consecutive years, and
one Park Board member shall serve a term of one year. Thereafter, all other
Park Board members appointed shall serve three consecutive years. If, for any
reason, a Park Board member is unable to serve their full term, the Mayor, with
the Council’s approval, shall appoint a person to fill the vacated spot for the
remainder of the existing term. In the event any Park Board member fails to
attend four or more consecutive meetings of the Park Board, said member shall
appear before the Council and show good cause why he or she should not be
removed as a member.
24.03 ORGANIZATION.
   Annually at the February meeting, the Park Board shall elect one of its
members as Chairperson and one of its members as Secretary of the Park Board.
The Secretary shall write the minutes of each Park Board meeting.
24.04 TREASURER.
   The Clerk shall be the Treasurer of the Board and pay out all moneys under
the control of the Park Board on orders signed by the Chairperson and
Secretary, but shall receive no compensation for such services as Treasurer.
24.05 COMPENSATION.
   All services performed by the Park Board members shall be rendered without
compensation.
24.06 BUDGET CERTIFIED.
   The Park Board shall submit to the City Administrator a proposed budget for
general park purposes for the ensuing fiscal year.
24.07 JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY.
   The Park Board shall govern, subject to the authority of the Council, all
parks and pleasure grounds acquired by it or by the City and set aside as a
park or pleasure ground. This includes, but is not necessarily limited to, Lake
Park, 11th Street Park, Hiley Park (Kiwanis), the skate park, the neighborhood
park at Vine Street and Railroad Avenue (Troutman Lot), and any other
neighborhood park. Pleasure grounds shall include all greenways and mini parks
as defined in Chapter 4 of the City’s Comprehensive Plan dated August 21, 2001.
The City’s sports complex, recreation facility and swimming pool are
specifically excluded from the jurisdiction of the Park Board. All ordinances
of the City shall be in full force and effect in and over the territory
occupied by such parks. No person, organization, or entity shall make or cause
any alteration, improvement, or modification to any park or pleasure ground in
which the aggregate cost of said alteration, improvement, or modification is in
excess of $1,000.00 without prior approval of the Council; said approval shall
be sought prior to the commencement of the project, the letting of bids, or the
seeking of grant applications, if applicable.
24.08 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Park Board shall have the power to make rules and regulations for the
use of park or other facilities under its control, such rules shall be posted
on the facility or otherwise publicized in a manner to provide adequate notice
to the public.
24.09 PROCEDURES FOR DONATED PROJECTS.
   Should any person, entity, or organization provide funding for any
alteration, improvement, modification, or other project for and on behalf of
the park or pleasure ground, and in excess of a cost of $1,000.00 or more, the
following procedure shall be utilized:
   1.   The Park Board shall assess any request to determine if the project is,
in its sole discretion, viable;
   2.   After such assessment, the Park Board shall make a formal
recommendation to the Council;
   3.   The Council shall either approve or disapprove of the requested
planning;
   4.   If approved by the Council, the Park Board shall proceed with project
planning;
   5.   Except as hereafter provided, any donated funds or grant proceeds from
any person, organization, or entity shall be made directly to the Park Board
and shall be received and distributed through the Park Board budget. Any
revenues created by or as a result of any project shall inure to the Park Board
as part of the Park Board’s budget. Any projects funded by an Internal Revenue
Code tax exempt 501(C)(3) organization or other similar Internal Revenue Code
tax exempt organization shall control all financial receipts and distributions
for such project; however, any revenues created by or as a result of the
project shall inure to the Park Board as part of the Park Board’s budget.
CHAPTER 25
UTILITY BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF GLENWOOD MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
 
25.01 Purpose                 25.06 Powers and Duties of the Board
25.02 Board Established       25.07 Control of Funds
25.03 Appointment of Trustees 25.08 Accounting
25.04 Compensation            25.09 Discriminatory Rates Illegal
25.05 Vacancies               25.10 Discontinuance of Board
 
25.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the operation of the
municipally owned water utility and sanitary sewer system by a board of
trustees.
25.02 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to an election held on November 10, 1952, the management and
control of the municipally owned waterworks were placed in the hands of a Board
of Trustees. Pursuant to an election held on November 5, 2002, the management
and control of the municipally owned sanitary sewer system were placed in the
hands of a Board of Trustees effective January 1, 2003.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.2)
25.03 APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES.
   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to the approval of the Council, five
persons to serve as trustees for staggered six year terms. No public officer or
salaried employee of the City may serve on the utility board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.3)
25.04 COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall, by resolution, set the compensation of Board members.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.3)
25.05 VACANCIES.
   An appointment to fill a vacancy on the Board of Trustees shall be made in
the same manner as an original appointment, except that such appointment shall
be for the balance of the unexpired term.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.3)
25.06 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Board of Trustees may exercise all powers of the City in relation to the
City utility, City utilities, or combined utility system it administers, with
the following exceptions:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4)
   1.   Taxes, Ordinances and Bonds. A Board may not certify taxes to be
levied, pass ordinances or amendments, or issue general obligation or special
assessment bonds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4(1))
   2.   Property. Title to all property must be in the name of the City but the
Board has full control of such property subject to limitations imposed by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4(2))
   3.   Reports to Council. The Board shall make a detailed annual report to
the Council including a complete financial statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4(3))
   4.   Proceedings Published. Immediately following a regular or special
meeting, the Board Secretary shall prepare and cause to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the City a condensed statement of
proceedings including a list of all claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.4(4))
25.07 CONTROL OF FUNDS.
   The Board shall control tax revenues allocated to it as well as all moneys
derived from operations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.5)
25.08 ACCOUNTING.
   Utility moneys are held in a separate utility fund, with a separate account
or accounts for each utility or combined utility system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.5)
25.09 DISCRIMINATORY RATES ILLEGAL.
   A utility may not provide use or service at a discriminatory rate, except to
the City or its agencies, as provided in Section 384.91, Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.6)
25.10 DISCONTINUANCE OF BOARD.
   A proposal, on motion of the Council or upon receipt of a valid petition, to
discontinue a utility board is subject to the approval of the voters of the
City, except that a Board may be discontinued by resolution of the Council when
the City utility, City utilities, or combined utility system it administers is
disposed of or leased for a period of over five years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 388.2)
CHAPTER 26
COMMUNITY TREE BOARD
 
26.01 Purpose        26.04 Duties and Responsibilities
26.02 Establishment  26.05 Operation
26.03 Term of Office  
 
26.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare of the City by establishing a legal Community Tree
Board to oversee tree planting and tree maintenance needs of City property, and
to promote citizen involvement and education to enhance the City’s community
tree resources.
26.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board of the City, which
shall consist of five members, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the Council. Members of the City Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
26.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Mayor, shall be three
years, except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first board
shall be only two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the
term of any member, their successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of the term.
26.04 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate, counsel,
and develop a written plan for the care, preservation, trimming, planting,
replanting, removal, or disposition of trees in public areas. Such a plan will
be presented to the Council and upon its acceptance and approval, shall
constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the City. The board shall
review annually and update, if needed, the comprehensive tree plan. The board,
when requested by the Council, shall consider, investigate, make findings,
report, and recommend upon any special matter of question within the scope of
its work.
26.05 OPERATION.
   The board shall choose its own officers, make rules and regulations, and
keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum
for the transaction of business.
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established        30.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.02 Organization                  30.08 Departmental Rules
30.03 Police Officer Qualifications 30.09 Summoning Aid
30.04 Required Training             30.10 Taking Weapons
30.05 Compensation                  30.11 Contract Law Enforcement
30.06 Police Officers Appointed      
 
30.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02 ORGANIZATION.
      The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law
enforcement officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be
authorized by the Council.
30.03 POLICE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
   In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04 REQUIRED TRAINING.
   All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law
at an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11(2))
(501 IAC 3 and 8)
30.05 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06 POLICE OFFICERS APPOINTED.
   The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief, subject to the consent
of a majority of the Council, and the Mayor, subject to Council approval, shall
also appoint the other members of the department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
   1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
   2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring
all persons committing any offense before the proper court.
   3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
   4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to
the State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
   5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
   6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
   7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for
the prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
   8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest, and the disposition of the
charge.
   9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
   10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and
be responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment,
and materials of the department.
30.08 DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
   The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code,
and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary for the
operation of the department.
30.09 SUMMONING AID.
   Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10 TAKING WEAPONS.
   Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items
that are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have
within such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.11 CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   In lieu of the appointment of a Police Chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section 30.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other
qualified lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and
in such event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the
powers and duties of the Police Chief as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 31
RESERVE PEACE OFFICERS
 
31.01 Establishment of Force     31.07 No Reduction of Regular Force
31.02 Training                   31.08 Compensation
31.03 Status of Reserve Officers 31.09 Benefits When Injured
31.04 Carrying Weapons           31.10 Liability and False Arrest Insurance
31.05 Supplementary Capacity     31.11 No Participation in Pension Fund or
                                 Retirement System
31.06 Supervision of Officers     
 
31.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCE.
   The Mayor, acting through the Police Chief, is hereby authorized to organize
a Reserve Peace Officer Force of not to exceed 25 members for the purpose of
assisting the Police Chief and other members of the Police Department. A
reserve peace officer is a volunteer, non-regular, sworn member of the Police
Department who will serve with or without compensation and has regular police
powers while functioning as the Police Department’s representative, and will
participate on a regular basis in the agency’s activities, including those of
crime prevention and control, preservation of the peace, and enforcement of the
law. All members shall be approved and appointed by the Mayor and Police Chief.
31.02 TRAINING.
   Training for individuals appointed as reserve peace officers shall be
provided by instructors in a community college or other facility, including a
law enforcement agency, selected by the individual and approved by the law
enforcement agency and the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy. All standards and
training required under Chapter 80D of the Code of Iowa constitute the minimum
standards for reserve peace officers. Upon satisfactory completion of training,
the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy shall certify the individual as a reserve
peace officer. There shall be no exemptions from the personal and training
standards provided for in this chapter.
31.03 STATUS OF RESERVE OFFICERS.
   Reserve peace officers shall serve as peace officers on the orders and at
the discretion of the Police Chief. While in the actual performance of official
duties, reserve peace officers shall be vested with the same rights,
privileges, obligations, and duties as any other peace officer.
31.04 CARRYING WEAPONS.
   A member of the reserve force shall not carry a weapon in the line of duty
until he or she has been approved by the Council and certified by the Iowa Law
Enforcement Academy Council. After approval and certification, a reserve peace
officer may carry a weapon in the line of duty only when authorized by the
Police Chief.
31.05 SUPPLEMENTARY CAPACITY.
   Reserve peace officers shall act only in a supplementary capacity to the
regular force and shall not assume full-time duties of regular peace officers
without first complying with all the requirements of regular peace officers.
31.06 SUPERVISION OF OFFICERS.
   Reserve peace officers shall be subordinate to regular peace officers, shall
not serve as peace officers unless under the direction of regular peace
officers, and shall wear a uniform prescribed by the Police Chief, unless that
superior officer designates alternate apparel for use when engaged in
assignments involving special investigations, civil process, court duties, jail
duties, and the handling of mental patients. The reserve peace officers shall
not wear an insignia of rank. The Police Chief shall appoint a regular force
peace officer as the reserve force coordinating and supervising officer. That
regular peace officer shall report directly to the Police Chief.
31.07 NO REDUCTION OF REGULAR FORCE.
   There shall be no reduction of the authorized size of the regular law
enforcement department of the City because of the establishment or utilization
of reserve peace officers.
31.08 COMPENSATION.
   While performing official duties, each reserve peace officer shall be
considered an employee of the City and shall be paid at a minimum of $1.00 per
year. The Council may provide additional monetary assistance for the purchase
and maintenance of uniforms and equipment used by reserve peace officers. The
uniforms and accessories purchased by the City shall remain the property of the
City.
31.09 BENEFITS WHEN INJURED.
   Hospital and medical assistance and benefits, as provided in Chapter 85 of
the Code of Iowa, shall be provided by the Council to members of the reserve
force who sustain injury in the course of performing official duties.
31.10 LIABILITY AND FALSE ARREST INSURANCE.
   Liability and false arrest insurance shall be provided by the City to
members of the reserve force while performing official duties in the same
manner as for regular peace officers.
31.11 NO PARTICIPATION IN PENSION FUND OR RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   This chapter shall not be construed to authorize or permit a reserve peace
officer to become eligible for participation in a pension fund or retirement
system created by the laws of the State and of which regular peace officers may
become members.
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
35.01 Establishment and Purpose 35.09 Obedience to Fire Chief
35.02 Organization              35.10 Constitution
35.03 Qualifications            35.11 Accidental Injury Insurance
35.04 Approved by Council       35.12 Liability Insurance
35.05 Training                  35.13 Calls Outside City
35.06 Compensation              35.14 Mutual Aid
35.07 Appointment of Officers   35.15 Authority to Cite Violations
35.08 Duties of Fire Chief      35.16 Billing for Fire Services
 
35.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   A combination fire department is hereby established to prevent and
extinguish fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote
fire prevention and fire safety, to provide rescue services, to provide
transport emergency medical services, and to answer all emergency calls for
which there is no other established agency.
35.02 ORGANIZATION.
   The department shall consist of full-time, part-time, and volunteer members,
including volunteer paid-on-call members. The department positions shall
include a full-time Fire Chief. Other full-time, part-time, or volunteer
positions may include Assistant Fire Chiefs, Captains, Lieutenants, or other
officers as designated by the Fire Chief, and Firefighter/EMT, Firefighter/EMT-
A, and Firefighter/EMT-P. The department must employ a sufficient number of
full-time and part-time firefighter/emergency medical providers to provide
fire, rescue, and emergency medical services 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
The department may employ full-time or part-time EMS providers who do not
perform firefighter duties if the member was previously employed and was in
good standing with the Glenwood Volunteer Fire Association, Inc., or if, in the
judgment of the Fire Chief, the department is unable to fill or staff full-time
or part-time firefighter/EMT-P positions and would benefit from EMS-only
positions.
35.03 QUALIFICATIONS.
   In no case shall any person be recruited, selected, or appointed as a member
of the department unless such person:
   1.   Resident Citizen. Is a citizen of the United States and is a resident
of the City or resides not more than 10 miles from the corporate boundaries of
the City
   2.   Age. Is at least 18 years of age at the time of appointment.
   3.   Driver’s License. Has a current active State driver’s license.
   4.   The individual shall pass a physical exam or test routinely
administered by or on behalf of the department for its applicants.
   5.   Character. Be of good moral character. Should the department be made
aware of any criminal convictions, any addictions, or any behavior which may
negatively effect upon applicant’s moral character or upon the department, the
department reserves the right to discharge such person.
   6.   Education. Is a high school graduate with a diploma, or possesses an
equivalency certificate acceptable by the State Department of Education.
   7.   Health. Prior to appointment, has been examined by a physician to
assist in determining applicant is free from physical, emotional, or mental
condition which might adversely affect the performance of duties.
   8.   Application. Has made proper written department application.
   9.   The Fire Chief shall prepare a job description for each position in
addition to the minimum qualifications set forth herein.
   10.   Any other requirements as provided in the Glenwood Fire Department
Policy and Procedural Manual as may be adopted and amended from time to time by
the Council.
35.04 APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
   No person having otherwise qualified shall be appointed to the department
until such appointment is submitted to and approved by a majority of the
Council members.
35.05 TRAINING.
   All members of the department shall attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
Members must complete all training required to comply with State law and to
maintain certifications. The Fire Chief may grant a waiver of this requirement
for good cause, including an extension approved by the State Bureau of EMS or
the State Fire Marshal or designee.
35.06 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
35.07 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The Council shall appoint a Fire Chief to serve at the discretion of the
Council. The Fire Chief shall appoint not more than a total each of two
assistant fire chiefs, four captains, and four lieutenants. All other offices
of the Fire Department shall be filled by the existing members of the Fire
Department no less than every two years. In the event of absence of the Chief,
the officer next in rank shall be in charge and exercise all powers of the
Chief. The Council may adopt, and from time to time amend, a Policy and
Procedure Manual for the Glenwood Fire Department. Any rules or regulations
promulgated of the Chief, officers, or members of the Fire Department shall not
be inconsistent with said Policy and Procedure Manual.
35.08 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including (but not limited to) the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4))
   1.   Enforce Laws. Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention
and the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
   2.   Technical Assistance. Upon request, give advice concerning private fire
alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.
   3.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an operation
as necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue operation,
investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak, or other
hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   4.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   5.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
   6.   Command. Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department. The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
   7.   Property. Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all
fire apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging to
the Fire Department.
   8.   Notification. Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property damage
in excess of $200,000.00 has occurred as a result of a fire, or if arson is
suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s Division immediately. For all other
fires causing an estimated damage of $50.00 or more or emergency responses by
the Fire Department, file a report with the State Fire Marshal’s Division
within 10 days following the end of the month. The report shall indicate all
fire incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and occupants of the
property at the time of the fire, the value of the property, the estimated
total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by investigation,
and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the fire incidents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 and 100.3)
   9.   Right of Entry. Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection that under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and that is reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 10A.514)
   10.   Recommendation. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers, or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards.
   11.   Assist State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal,
and as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing, and reporting data pertaining to fires.
   12.   Records. Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause, and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type, and location of buildings.
   13.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
of the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
   14.   Prior Approval. Obtain prior approval from the Council of any express
or implied agreement to provide fire, rescue, ambulance, or other emergency
services to any person, entity, organization, or jurisdiction. Any such
agreement, including any agreements entered into in the name of a division,
subsidiary, or other branch of the Volunteer Fire Department, shall be deemed
invalid and void unless such prior approval of the Council is obtained.
   15.   The Fire Chief shall prepare and implement a minimum staffing
guideline to provide coverage for fire, rescue, and EMS calls 24 hours a day,
365 days a year. The staffing guideline shall meet or exceed the minimum
requirements under State law and Iowa Administrative Code for a transport
paramedic service. At least one certified EMT-P and one certified EMT shall be
on duty at all times absent an emergency or extenuating circumstances.
35.09 OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.
35.10 CONSTITUTION.
   The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated
to accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and any
change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being effective,
must be approved by the Council.
35.11 ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
   The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract. The City shall contract to provide accidental injury insurance
and workers’ compensation insurance coverage for all members of the department,
whether full-time, part-time, or volunteer, and regardless of the member’s
duties or responsibilities.
35.12 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or
members of the department for injuries, death, or property damage arising out
of and resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside
the corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 and 517A.1)
35.13 CALLS OUTSIDE CITY.
   The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
City limits if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the City limits.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4(2) and (3))
35.14 MUTUAL AID.
   Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter
into mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments.
Copies of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4(2) and (3))
35.15 AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
   Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part
2 of the Code of Iowa, may issue citations in accordance with Chapter 805 of
the Code of Iowa, for violations of Chapter 10A, Subchapter V, Part 2 of the
Code of Iowa or a violation of a local fire safety code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
35.16 BILLING FOR FIRE SERVICES.
   After every service call, the Fire Chief, or their designee, shall prepare
and deliver a statement for any fire, hazmat cleanup, or similar service
rendered by the Volunteer Fire Department as provided herein. The person,
business, or entity responsible for payment is the person, business, or entity
whose conduct precipitated the service call or the person, business, or entity
who owned the property benefited by the service call. Payment of such fee shall
be made to the City and deposited by the Clerk in the general fund for the
benefit of the Volunteer Fire Department.
   1.   Billing. The statement for services rendered shall be sent to the
person, business, or entity responsible for payment.
   2.   Charges for Billing Purposes. Charges for services rendered by the
Glenwood Volunteer Fire Department shall take into account the following:
      A.   Emergency response apparatus actually used in the response;
      B.   Stand-by status of support vehicles;
      C.   Manpower actually used in the response;
      D.   The uninsured portion of equipment damaged, contaminated, or
destroyed, at replacement cost;
      E.   The replacement cost of disposable supplies including, but not
limited to fuel, water, foam, absorbent materials, or any other cost, incurred
by the Fire Department in the response to the incident.
   3.   Rates charged by the Glenwood Volunteer Fire Department shall be
established by the Council upon recommendation of the Volunteer Fire Department
Chief and may be amended from time to time by resolution of the Council.
CHAPTER 36
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
 
36.01 Purpose          36.05 Limits
36.02 Adoption of Code 36.06 Modifications
36.03 Copy on File     36.07 Appeals
36.04 Enforcement      36.08 Penalties
 
36.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prescribe regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion.
36.02 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   Pursuant to published notice and public hearing, there is hereby adopted
that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code, 1976, with 1982 amendment,
Abbreviated Edition, as published by the American Insurance Association, 85
John Street, New York City, New York, and the whole thereof, save and except
such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended by this chapter,
and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein, and from the effective date of this chapter, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the City.
36.03 COPY ON FILE.
   An official copy of the Fire Prevention Code as adopted, and a certified
copy of the ordinance codified by this chapter are on file in the office of the
Clerk. A copy of the Fire Prevention Code as adopted, and a copy of said
ordinance have been furnished the State Law Library, the Municipal Library, all
newspapers of general circulation published in the City, and all commercial
radio stations situated in the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 380.10)
36.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fire Prevention Code shall be enforced by the Fire Chief.
36.05 LIMITS.
   Establishment of limits of districts in which storage of flammable liquids
in outside above ground tanks and bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases is
to be restricted. The limits referred to in Section 804A of the Fire Prevention
Code in which storage of flammable liquids in outside above ground tanks is
prohibited, and the limits referred to in Section 1104 of the Fire Prevention
Code, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, are
hereby established as follows:
   Commencing at the Northwest corner of Lot 4 in Block 5 and running thence
East to the Northeast corner of Lot 9 in Block 61, thence South to the
Southeast corner of Lot 6 in Block 32, thence West to the Southwest corner of
Lot 3 in Block 20 and thence North to the place of beginning.
36.06 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Fire Chief shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or their
duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the Code, provided that the spirit of the
Code shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision
of the Fire Chief thereon shall be entered upon the records of the department.
One signed copy of the decision of the Fire Chief shall be furnished the
applicant, and one signed copy shall be filed in the office of the Clerk.
36.07 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Fire Chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a
license or permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the
Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the Code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the Fire Chief to the Council with 30 days from the date of the decision of
the appeal.
(Constitution of Iowa, Article 1, Sec. 9)
36.08 PENALTIES.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Code hereby
adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified
by the Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance,
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time, and when not otherwise specified, each 10 days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The
application of this penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal
of prohibited conditions.
CHAPTER 37
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
37.01 Purpose                     37.05 Notifications
37.02 Definitions                 37.06 Police Authority
37.03 Cleanup Required            37.07 City Liability
37.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs  
 
37.01 PURPOSE.
   In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal, and cleanup of
hazardous substance spills within the City limits.
37.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Cleanup” means action necessary to contain, collect, control,
identify, analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance or hazardous waste.
   2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual,
imminent, or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance
which, because of the quantity, strength and toxicity of the hazardous
substance, its mobility in the environment and its persistence, creates an
immediate potential danger to the public health or safety of persons or
property. The term “hazardous condition” includes any accident involving
hazardous materials required to be reported under Section 321.266(4) of the
Code of Iowa.
   3.   “Hazardous substance” means and includes any, each and all substances
or materials regulated pursuant to any Environmental Laws, including, but not
limited to, any such substance, emission or material now defined as or deemed
to be a regulated substance, hazardous substance, toxic substance, pesticide,
explosives, radioactive materials, hazardous waste or any similar or like
classification or categorization there under. “Hazardous substance” also means
any substance or mixture of substances that presents a danger to the public
health or safety or environment and includes, but is not limited to, a
substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an irritant or
that in confinement generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. The following are examples of substances which, in sufficient quantity,
may be hazardous: acids; alkalis; explosives; fertilizers; heavy metals such as
chromium, arsenic, mercury, lead and cadmium; industrial chemicals, paint
thinners; paints; pesticides; petroleum products; poisons; radioactive
materials; sludge; and organic solvents. “Hazardous substance” may include any
hazardous waste identified or listed by the administrator of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended
by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant
listed under Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended
to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any
hazardous material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the
Hazardous Materials Transportation Act.
   4.   “Hazardous waste” means a waste or combination of wastes that, because
of its quantity, concentration, biological degradation, leaching from
precipitation, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics, has either
of the following effects:
      A.   Causes or significantly contributes to an increase in mortality or
an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      B.   Poses a substantial danger to human health or the environment.
“Hazardous waste” may include, but is not limited to, wastes that are toxic,
corrosive, or flammable or irritants, strong sensitizers, or explosives.
   5.   “Hazardous waste” does not include:
      A.   Agricultural wastes, including manures and crop residues that are
returned to the soil as fertilizers or soil conditioners;
      B.   Source, special nuclear or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
   6.   “Person” means individual, corporation, firm, government or
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership
or association, or any other legal entity.
   7.   “Responsible person” means the person, whether the owner, agent,
lessor, tenant, or operator, in charge of the hazardous substance being stored,
processed, or handled, or the owner or bailee transporting hazardous wastes or
substances whether on public ways or ground or on private property, where the
existence or spill of such substance would cause danger to the public or to any
person, or damage to the environment.
37.03 CLEANUP REQUIRED.
   1.   Whenever a hazardous condition is created so that a hazardous substance
may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any
waters, including groundwaters, the responsible person shall cause the
condition to be remedied by a cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as
rapidly as feasible to an acceptable, safe condition, and restore the affected
area to its state prior to the hazardous condition as far as practicable. The
costs of cleanup shall be borne by the responsible person.
   2.   If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to begin in a
reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the incident,
the City may, by authorization of the Mayor or designee, give reasonable
notice, based on the character of the hazardous condition, setting a deadline
for commencing and accomplishing the cleanup, or the City may proceed to
procure cleanup services. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the capacity of
the City to finance, the Mayor or designee may report to the Council and
immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said cleanup.
37.04 LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
   The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
   1.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City in
containing or controlling a hazardous condition.
   2.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the person to clean up a hazardous substance
or waste involved in a hazardous condition caused by that person.
   3.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
   4.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of,
or loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction, or loss.
   5.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents
of the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused
by that person.
   6.   The costs referenced above shall be as determined by the Fire Chief
for: manpower, apparatus, ambulance/rescue squad, command vehicle or utility
truck, supplies and outside services, mileage, and decontamination, repairs,
replacement, maintenance of equipment, apparatus, or supplies, plus a
reasonable administrative fee. It is unlawful for any responsible person to
fail to pay a billing for such services within 30 days of the receipt
therefore.
37.05 NOTIFICATIONS.
   1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing
of a hazardous substance or waste shall notify the State Department of Natural
Resources and Police Chief of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon
as possible but no later than one hour after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition. The Police Chief shall
notify the proper State office in the manner established by the State.
   2.   Any City employee who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Police Chief, which shall then notify the proper State office in the manner
established by the State.
37.06 POLICE AUTHORITY.
   If the circumstances reasonably require, the Fire Chief or Police Chief, or
their representative(s) may:
   1.   Evacuate persons, even from their homes, to areas away from the site of
a hazardous condition, and
   2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to only cleanup personnel.
   No person shall disobey an order of the Fire Chief or any other deputy or
peace officer/law enforcement officer issued under this section.
37.07 CITY LIABILITY.
   The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries,
or losses resulting from any hazardous condition, except if the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
37.02(7).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault             40.05 Standing, Loitering, and Obstructing Persons
40.02 Harassment          40.06 Standing, Loitering, and Obstructing Persons on
                          Public Property
40.03 Disorderly Conduct   
40.04 Failure to Disperse  
 
40.01 ASSAULT.
   No person shall, without justification, commit assault defined as follows:
   1.   Types of Assault.
      A.   Any act which is intended to cause pain or injury to, or which is
intended to result in physical contact which will be insulting or offensive to
another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1(2)(a))
      B.   Any act which is intended to place another in fear of immediate
physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting, or offensive,
coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1(2)(b))
      C.   Intentionally points any firearm toward another or displays in a
threating manner any dangerous weapon toward another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1(2)(c))
   2.   Exceptions. An act described as assault in Subsection 1 shall not be an
assault under the following circumstances:
      A.   If the person doing any of the enumerated acts, and such other
person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social, or other activity, not
in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable incident of such
sport or activity and does not create an unreasonable risk of serious injury or
breach of the peace.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1(3)(a))
      B.   If the person doing any of the enumerated acts is employed by a
school district or accredited nonpublic school, or is an area education agency
staff member who provides services to a school or school district, and
intervenes in a fight or physical struggle, or other disruptive situation, that
takes place in the presence of the employee or staff member performing
employment duties in a school building, on school grounds, or at an official
school function regardless of the location, whether the fight or physical
struggle or other disruptive situation is between students or other
individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention is reasonably
necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1(3)(b))
40.02 HARASSMENT.
   1.   Definition. The following term is defined for use in this section.
      A.   “Personal contact” means an encounter in which two or more people
are in visual or physical proximity to each other. Personal contact does not
require a physical touching or oral communication, although it may include
these types of contacts.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(8)(b))
   2.   Harassment. No person shall commit harassment. A person commits
harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or alarm another person, the
person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(1)(a)(1))
      B.   Places a simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near a building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or car, or boat occupied by
another person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(1)(a)(2))
      C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without the other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(1)(a)(3))
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the act did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(1)(a)(4))
   3.   Act of Harassment. A person commits harassment when the person,
purposefully and without legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another
person, with the intent to threaten, intimidate, or alarm that other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(1)(b))
   4.   Exceptions. The following do not constitute harassment.
      A.   A photograph or film involving voluntary exposure by a person in
public or commercial settings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(6)(a))
      B.   Disclosures made in the public interest, including but not limited
to, the reporting of unlawful conduct, disclosures by law enforcement, news
reporting, legal proceeding disclosures, or medical treatment disclosures.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7(6)(b))
      C.   Disclosures by an interactive computer service of information
provided by another information content provider, as those terms are defined in
47 U.S.C. §230.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 780.7(6)(c))
40.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or
in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided, that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(a))
   2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which intentionally or recklessly causes unreasonable distress
to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(b))
   3.   Abusive Language. Directs abusive epithets or makes any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(c))
   4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of
authority, the person disturbs any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by
conduct intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(d))
   5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiates or
circulates a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing
such report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(e))
   6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly uses the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f))
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f)(2)(a))
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f)(2)(b))
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f)(2)(c))
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f)(2)(d))
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f)(2)(e))
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4(1)(f)(2)(f))
   7.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5(2))
40.04 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   A police officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly
or persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to
disperse. No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to
obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
40.05 STANDING, LOITERING, AND OBSTRUCTING PERSONS.
   No person shall congregate, stand, loaf, or loiter in or on any privately
owned property, whether in or on or in front of any hall, lobby, doorway,
passage, entrance, street, sidewalk, or parking lot, so as to interfere with
the property rights of the owner(s) or with any person’s ability to use the
services afforded by such property when there exists on such property or at the
entrance of such property a posted sign which expressly prohibits loitering.
40.06 STANDING, LOITERING, AND OBSTRUCTING PERSONS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall collect, assemble, or group together and after being so
collected, assembled, or grouped together, stand or loiter on any sidewalk,
parking area or any street corner, or at any other place in the City to the
hindrance or obstruction to free passage of any person or persons passing on or
along any sidewalk in said City.
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.09 Antenna and
                                                         Radio Wires
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.10 Barbed Wire and
Safety Entities                                          Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
                                                         41.14 Hunting,
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    Trapping in City
                                                         Limits
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.15 Failure to
Device                                                   Assist
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators               
 
41.01 DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any
corrosive, caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person
delivers such into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes
reasonable precautions that the substance will not be taken by children or
animals from the place where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02 FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
   No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that they are
not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03 PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
   No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04 REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05 HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer
or employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to
be a peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A
of the Code of Iowa, medical examiner, or firefighter, whether paid or
volunteer, or a person performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303
(4) of the Code of Iowa, in the performance of any act that is within the scope
of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care
provider, medical examiner, or firefighter, or person performing bailiff
duties, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution by any
authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. The
terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do not include verbal
harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by a present ability and
apparent intention to execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07 REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
   No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08 ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
   No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09 ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
   It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2))
41.10 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11 DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
   2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12 THROWING AND SHOOTING.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind
or to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns,
or other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2))
41.13 URINATING AND DEFECATING.
   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building,
including but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway,
doorway, or window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14 HUNTING, TRAPPING IN CITY LIMITS.
   1.   Definition. Hunting is defined as pursuing, killing, trapping, snaring,
netting, searching for or shooting at, stalking, or lying in wait for any game,
animal or bird protected by the State laws or rules adopted by the Department
of Natural Resources, whether or not such animal is then subsequently captured,
killed, or injured.
   2.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for a person to hunt or trap within the
City limits or to use any weapons, including snares, traps, pits, or other
devices capable of killing or injuring an animal. Live trapping of animals that
does not cause injury to animals is allowed. Hunting with firearms within City
limits is prohibited. Written consent of the Police Chief is required to
discharge a firearm manufactured for the control of geese or waterfowl even if
the firearm is non-lethal and cannot cause death or injury upon any human being
or animal.
   3.   Special Permits. Special permits by order of the Council may be issued
from time to time to allow a special hunting season in the City limits to kill
an overpopulated deer herd or goose population and only if the hunting is done
with a bow and arrow.
41.15 FAILURE TO ASSIST.
   A person who reasonably believes another person is suffering from a risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death shall, if the person is able,
attempt to contact local law enforcement or local emergency response
authorities, if doing so does not place the person or other person at risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death. No person shall without
lawful cause violate the provisions of this section. A person shall not be
required to contact local law enforcement or emergency response authorities if
the person knows or reasonably believes that the other person is not in need of
help or assistance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.12)
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.06 Theft
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.07 Other Public Property Offenses
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.08 Unauthorized Computer Access
42.04 Unauthorized Entry                42.09 Unlawful Obstruction of Public
                                        Ways and Property
42.05 Fraud                              
 
42.01 TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8(1))
   2.   Definitions. The following terms have been defined for use in this
section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1))
      A.   “Property” means any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle,
or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1)(a))
      B.   “Public utility” means a public utility as defined in Section 476.1
of the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478
of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1)(b))
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1)(c))
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1)(d))
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1)(e))
      F.   “Reasonable expectation of privacy” means circumstances in which a
reasonable person would believe that the person could disrobe or partially
disrobe in privacy, without being concerned that the person disrobing or
partially disrobing was being viewed, photographed, or filmed when doing so.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(1)(f))
      G.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a))
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(1))
         (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any police [peace] officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to
supervise the use or maintenance of the property. A person has been notified or
requested to abstain from entering or remaining upon or in property within the
meaning of this subparagraph if any of the following are applicable:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(2))
            a.   The person has been notified to abstain from entering or
remaining upon or in property personally, either orally or in writing,
including by a valid court order under Chapter 236 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(2)(a))
            b.   A printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been
conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to the property or the
forbidden part of the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(2)(b))
         (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(3))
         (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(4))
         (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This subparagraph does not apply to passage
over a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct,
bridge, trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not
been notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(5))
         (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This subparagraph does not
apply to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has
not been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(a)(6))
   3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(b))
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(b)(1))
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(2)(b)(2))
      C.   This section shall not apply to the following persons:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(3))
         (1)   Representatives of the State Department of Transportation, the
Federal Railroad Administration, or the National Transportation Safety Board
who enter or remain upon or in railway property while engaged in the
performance of official duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(3)(a))
         (2)   Employees of a railway corporation who enter or remain upon or
in railway property while acting in the course of employment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(3)(b))
         (3)   Any person who is engaged in the operation of a lawful business
on railway station ground or in the railway depot.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(3)(c))
         (4)   Representatives of the State Utilities Commission, the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, or the Federal Communications Commission who
enter or remain upon or in public utility property while engaged in the
performance of official duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(3)(d))
         (5)   Employees of a public utility who enter or remain upon or in
public utility property while acting in the course of employment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7(3)(e))
42.02 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03 DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
   It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down,
or destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
   No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05 FRAUD.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06 THEFT.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07 OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
   The following chapters of this Code ontain regulations prohibiting or
restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed to be public
property offenses:
   1.   
Chapter 22 – Library
      A.   Section
22.10 – Injury to Books or Property
      B.   Section
22.11 – Theft of Library Property
   2.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
      A.   Section
105.09 – Littering Prohibited
   3.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
      A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
      B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
      C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
      D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
      E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
      F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
      G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
   4.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
      A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
      B.   Section
136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
      C.   Section
136.16 – Defacing
      D.   Section
136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
      E.   Section
136.18 – Merchandise Display
      F.   Section
136.19 – Sales Stands
42.08 UNAUTHORIZED COMPUTER ACCESS.
   It is unlawful for a person to knowingly and without authorization access a
computer, computer system, or computer network.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.6B)
42.09 UNLAWFUL OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY.
   1.   Definition. The term “camp” or “camping” shall mean the use of public
property as a temporary or permanent place of dwelling, lodging, or residence,
or as a living accommodation at any time between sunset or sunrise, or as a
sojourn. Evidence of camping may include, but are not limited to, storage of
personal belongings, using tents, cars, or other temporary or semi-permanent
structures for sleeping or storage of personal belongings, carrying on cooking
activities, or making any fire in an unauthorized area, or any of these
activities in combination with one another or in combination with either
sleeping or making preparation to sleep, including the laying down or placement
of bedding for the purpose of sleeping.
   2.   Prohibited Act. It is unlawful for any person to camp or to place any
camp upon any public street, sidewalk, park, building, or land, except while
camping in areas specifically designated for camping by the City and while
acting in accordance with all rules, regulations, and ordinances pertaining to
camping in such designated areas, or as otherwise permitted by this Code.
   3.   Penalty. A violation of this section may be prosecuted as a municipal
infraction and, upon conviction, an individual is subject to a penalty and
other relief in accordance with
Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
**    As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.   **
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a retail alcohol licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47(3))
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
any retail alcohol licensee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(3))
45.02 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
   2.   A person shall not consume alcoholic liquor, wine or beer upon public
streets or highways. A person may not use or consume alcohol in any public
place, except the following: (a) any premises covered by a liquor license; and
(b) beer and wine may be consumed at the Glenwood Lake Park at designated areas
during events at the Davies Amphitheater at dates and times specifically
designated by resolution of the Council. A person shall not possess or consume
alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer on public school property or while attending
any public or private school-related function. A person shall not be
intoxicated or simulate intoxication in a public place. A person violating this
subsection is guilty of a simple misdemeanor..
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense.
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03 OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (See Section
62.01(50) and (51).)
45.04 SOCIAL HOST.
   A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
18, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Curfew                   46.04 Cigarettes and Tobacco
46.02 Minors in Taverns        46.05 Contributing to Delinquency
46.03 Minors in Billiard Rooms  
 
46.01 CURFEW.
   A curfew applicable to minors is established and shall be enforced as
follows:
   1.   Definition. The term “minor” means in this section, any unmarried
person below the age of 18 years.
   2.   Time Limits. It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain upon any of
the alleys, streets or public places or places of business and amusement in the
City between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. of any day of the week.
   3.   Exceptions. The restriction provided by Section
46.01(2) shall not apply to any minor who is accompanied by a guardian, parent
or other person charged with the care and custody of such minor, nor shall the
restriction apply to any minor who is traveling between their home or place of
residence and the place where any approved employment, church, municipal or
school function is being held.
   4.   Responsibility of Adults. It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or
other person charged with the care and custody of any minor to allow or permit
such minor to be in or upon any of the streets, alleys, places of business, or
amusement or other public places within the curfew hours set by Section
46.01(2), except as otherwise provided in Section
46.01(3).
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 613.16)
   5.   Responsibility of Business Establishments. It is unlawful for any
persons operating a place of business or amusement to allow or permit any minor
to be in or upon any place of business or amusement operated by them within the
curfew hours set by Section
46.01(2) except as otherwise provided in Section
46.01(3).
   6.   Enforcement. Any police officer of the City while on duty is hereby
empowered to arrest any minor who violates any of the provisions of Sections
46.01(2) and
46.01(3). Upon arrest, the minor shall be returned to the custody of the
parent, guardian or other person charged with the care and custody of the
minor.
46.02 MINORS IN TAVERNS.
   It is unlawful for any person under legal age to enter, remain in or
frequent a business establishment holding a retail alcohol license after the
hour of 9:00 p.m. on any day unless over 50 percent of the dollar volume of the
business establishment comes from the sale and serving of prepared foods. This
section does not apply to holders of a Class “B” retail alcohol license or an
establishment employee when employed in compliance with State law.
46.03 MINORS IN BILLIARD ROOMS.
   It is unlawful for any person who keeps a billiard hall where beer, liquor
or wine is sold, or the agent, clerk, or employee of any such person, or any
person having charge or control of any such hall, to permit any minor to remain
in such hall or to take part in any of the games known as billiards or pool.
46.04 CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
   It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.05 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
   It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age
to commit any act of delinquency.
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.06 Camping Areas
47.02 Parking                47.07 Glenwood Lake Park Regulations
47.03 Use of Drives Required 47.08 Obedience to Signs
47.04 Fires                  47.09 Violation of Rules
47.05 Littering               
 
47.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park
facilities by the general public by establishing rules and regulations
governing the use of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02 PARKING.
   All vehicles shall be parked in designated parking areas.
47.03 USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any car, cycle or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the Park
Commission.
47.04 FIRES.
   No fires shall be built, except in a place provided therefor, and such fire
shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be immediately
used by some other party.
47.05 LITTERING.
   No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter or
foreign substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that
purpose.
47.06 CAMPING AREAS.
   No person shall camp in any portion of a park except in portions prescribed
or designated by the Park Commission.
47.07 GLENWOOD LAKE PARK REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations apply in Glenwood Lake Park:
   1.   Swimming. No person shall swim in the lake.
   2.   Debris. No person shall throw any dirt, sticks, or other debris into
the lake.
   3.   Ice Skating. No person shall ice skate on the lake during the winter
months.
   4.   Boating. No person shall place or use in such lake any privately owned
motorboat.
   5.   Violate Rules. No person shall violate any of the rules and regulations
adopted by the State Department of Natural Resources for the conduct of such
park and the fishing therein, such rules and regulations being posted in
conspicuous places in such park.
   6.   Stocking. It is unlawful for any person to place any fish in the water
of said lake, except the State Department of Natural Resources, its agents or
employees, and the agents or employees of the park commissioners of the City.
   7.   Curfew. It is unlawful for any person to enter said park, or to be upon
any of the grounds enclosed within the limits of the park, between the hours of
10:00 p.m. (dusk) and 8:30 a.m.
   8.   Tents shall be only in areas designated for tent use.
   9.   The use of tents by any party or parties shall be limited to no more
than seven days a month, whether such is continuous or non-continuous.
   10.   Campsites must be maintained free of trash and debris.
   11.   All park users shall observe quiet time from 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
the following day.
   12.   Only one RV shall be allowed per designated RV site.
   13.   Only one children’s tent shall be allowed per RV designated site with
a registered RV.
   14.   Campfires are prohibited in the park.
   15.   All pets must be on a leash at all times. Pit bulls are strictly
prohibited.
   16.   All park users shall immediately clean up after their pets.
   17.   If law enforcement is called or utilized on account of a park user,
such park user shall be requested to immediately leave the park.
   18.   Any park user being disruptive to other persons shall be requested to
immediately leave the park.
   19.   There shall be no vehicle repairs of any kind in the park.
   20.   Only two vehicles shall be allowed per designated registered site and
must be parked in registered site or in visitor parking.
   21.   There shall be no smoking in the park bathhouse.
   22.   All users shall be responsible for the cleanliness of the restrooms.
   23.   Use of clotheslines in the park are prohibited.
   24.   Camping in vehicles in the park is prohibited other than in campers or
RVs in registered sites.
   25.   All adult campers must register on forms provided by the City.
   26.   The City reserves the right to revoke camping and park use privileges
to any park user.
47.08 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS.
   It is unlawful for any person to disobey the order or orders on any signs
placed in any park by the park commissioners of the City.
47.09 VIOLATION OF RULES.
   It is unlawful for any person to violate any rules or regulations hereafter
adopted by the park commissioners and approved by the Council, when such rules
or regulations have been posted in at least two conspicuous places in said
park.
CHAPTER 48
FIREWORKS REGULATION
 
                                     48.06 First-Class Consumer Fireworks and
48.01 Definitions                    Second-Class Consumer Fireworks Use
                                     Restrictions
48.02 Scope of Regulations           48.07 Prohibition of Fireworks or
                                     Novelties Use
48.03 Display Fireworks Regulations  48.08 General Requirements
48.04 Consumer Fireworks Regulations 48.09 Sale of Fireworks
48.05 Novelties Use Regulations       
 
48.01 DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “APA 87-1” means the American Pyrotechnics Association Standard 87-1 as
published in December, 2001, and as may be amended from time to time and re-
published.
   2.   “Consumer fireworks” means first-class consumer fireworks and second-
class consumer fireworks as those terms are defined in Section 100.19, Code of
Iowa.
   3.   “Display fireworks” means the fireworks defined in Section 727.2, Code
of Iowa, as amended from time to time.
   4.   “Explosive” means any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the
primary or common purpose of which is to function by explosion with
substantially instantaneous release of gas and heat, unless such compound,
mixture or device is otherwise specifically classified by the United States
Department of Transportation. The term includes all materials which are
classified as a Class 1, Division 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, or 1.4 explosive by the United
States Department of Transportation under 49 C.F.R. Section 173.50, and all
materials classified as explosive materials under 18 U.S.C. Section 841, and
includes, but is not limited to, dynamite, black powder, pellet powders,
initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps, safety fuse, fuse
lighters, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonative fuse, instantaneous fuse,
igniter cord, igniters, smokeless propellant, cartridges for propellant-
actuated power devices, cartridges for industrial guns, and overpressure
devices, but does not include “consumer fireworks,” “display fireworks,” or
“novelties” as those terms are defined in this chapter, or ammunition or small
arms primers manufactured for use in shotguns, rifles, and pistols.
   5.   “Fireworks” means any explosive composition or combination of explosive
substances or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation.
   6.   “First-class consumer fireworks” means those fireworks defined as
first-class consumer fireworks in Section 100.19(c), Code of Iowa, as amended
from time to time, and includes, but is not limited to, the following consumer
fireworks:
      A.   Aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes.
      B.   Chasers.
      C.   Helicopter and aerial spinners.
      D.   Firecrackers.
      E.   Mine and shell devices.
      F.   Missile-type rockets.
      G.   Roman candles.
      H.   Sky rockets and bottle rockets.
      I.   Multiple tube devices under this paragraph manufactured in
accordance with APA 87-1, Section 3.5.
   7.   “Novelties” means those items enumerated as novelties as defined in
Section 727.2, Code of Iowa, as amended from time to time, and includes those
items classified as novelties in Chapter 3 of APA 87-1, and that comply with
the labeling regulations issued by the U.S. Consumer Products Safety
Commission.
   8.   “Permanent Building” means a structure as defined by the State Fire
Marshal by administrative regulation or rule, which shall comply with the
National Fire Protection Association, Standard 1124, published in the National
Fire Protection Code relating to the manufacture, transportation, storage and
retail sale of fireworks and pyrotechnic articles, 2006 Edition, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   9.   “Retailer” means as defined in Section 423.1, Code of Iowa.
   10.   “Sale” or “sell” means transfer of ownership or possession in exchange
for valuable consideration furnished by the person receiving ownership or
possession.
   11.   “Second-class consumer fireworks” means those fireworks defined as
second-class consumer fireworks in Section 100.19(e), Code of Iowa, as amended
from time to time, and includes, but is not limited to, the following consumer
fireworks:
      A.   Cone fountains.
      B.   Cylindrical foundations.
      C.   Flitter sparklers.
      D.   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including multiple tube
ground and hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in accordance with
APA 87-1, Section 3.5.
      E.   Ground spinners.
      F.   Illuminating torches.
      G.   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties pursuant to
APA 87-1, Section 3.2.
      H.   Wheels.
      I.   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA 87-1, Section 3.2.
   12.   “Stand-alone structure” means either a permanent building or a
temporary structure attached to no other building or structure, and which is
located a minimum of 50 feet from any adjacent structure.
   13.   “Structure” means a place constructed by putting together materials
which satisfies all conditions for a structure as set out in regulations or
rules of the State Fire Marshal.
   14.   “Temporary structure” means that structure as defined by the State
Fire Marshal by administrative regulation or rule, which shall comply with the
National Fire Protection Association, Standard 1124, published in the National
Fire Protection Code relating to the manufacture, transportation, storage and
retail sale of fireworks and pyrotechnic articles, 2006 Edition, and amendments
thereto.
   15.   “Use” means to apply the device or substance involved to the purpose
for which it was designed. In the case of fireworks, this includes the
discharge or exploding of the device or substance.
   16.   “Wholesaler” means a person who engages in the business of selling or
distributing consumer fireworks for the purpose of re-sale in the State.
48.02 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The City deems the use of display fireworks and consumer fireworks both a
threat to public safety and a possible nuisance, and therefore prohibits the
use of display fireworks, consumer fireworks, and novelties except as provided
in this chapter.
48.03 DISPLAY FIREWORKS REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to use display fireworks, unless upon
application and permit therefore issued by the City in accordance with
conditions established by the Council. In addition to or incorporated into the
conditions established, shall be conditions requiring that the operator or
sponsoring organization has satisfied the City that the display fireworks will
be managed by a competent operator and that the operator or sponsoring
organization has filed with the Clerk evidence of liability insurance
protecting the City with limits established by the City, but not less than
$1,000,000 per person and $2,000,000 aggregate.
48.04 CONSUMER FIREWORKS REGULATIONS.
   Consumer fireworks may be used without advance notice as long as in
compliance with all other regulations and restrictions concerning consumer
fireworks use in the City.
48.05 NOVELTIES USE REGULATIONS.
   Novelties may be used without advance notice as long as in compliance with
all other regulations and restrictions concerning novelties use in the City.
48.06 FIRST-CLASS CONSUMER FIREWORKS AND SECOND-CLASS CONSUMER FIREWORKS USE
RESTRICTIONS.
   In addition to any restrictions stated in other sections of this chapter,
the following use restrictions are adopted for use both of first-class consumer
fireworks and second-class consumer fireworks:
   1.   Dates of Use. First-class consumer fireworks and second-class consumer
fireworks may be used only on the following dates and times. All times are
local times:
      A.   State Code Dates. Allowed by Section 364.2(6) of the Code of Iowa:
         (1)   July 3 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
            a.   Except when July 3 falls on a Saturday or Sunday preceding
July 4, in which fireworks shall be allowed between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
11:00 p.m.
         (2)   July 4 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
         (3)   December 31 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 12:30 a.m. on the
immediately following day.
      B.   City Allowed Dates.
         (1)   July 1, July 2, and July 5 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m.
         (2)   December 30 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         (3)   January 1 and January 2 between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m.
   2.   Proximity to structures. Fireworks shall be discharged a minimum of 50
feet from any structure at the location where discharged.
   3.   Supervision. Use of first-class consumer fireworks shall be under
supervision of the responsible person indicated on the notice filed with the
Clerk. Use of second-class consumer fireworks shall be under supervision of an
adult. The person responsible, or adult, shall be physically present at the
location and in a position to enable the person responsible or adult to render
assistance on an immediate basis.
   4.   Fire Extinguisher. It shall be the responsibility of the responsible
person or adult to have present at the location a fire extinguisher sufficient
to suppress or extinguish fires started by use of the fireworks.
   5.   Reserved Power of the City. The Fire Chief or Police Chief may refuse
or end the use of fireworks at any location in the event the Fire Chief or
Police Chief determines use at that location to be unsafe or in violation of
this chapter.
48.07 PROHIBITION OF FIREWORKS OR NOVELTIES USE.
   The City may prohibit use of fireworks or novelties when an increased fire
danger is present, or for any other good cause posing hazard to the City or
property of its residents.
48.08 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Adults Only. No person under the age of 18 years shall discharge a
first-class or second-class consumer fireworks without supervision as specified
in this chapter.
   2.   Intoxication. No fireworks shall be discharged by a person under the
influence of an alcoholic beverage or drugs.
   3.   Responsibility for Safe Use. The responsible person or adult at each
location where consumer fireworks are used is responsible for both proper and
safe use of the fireworks and use in compliance with this chapter.
   4.   Unsafe or Reckless Use. No person shall discharge fireworks in an
unsafe or reckless manner or with the intent to cause injury, death, fire, or
property damage either to the person’s property or that of a third party.
   5.   Alteration of Components. It is a violation of this chapter for any
person to alter components of fireworks. The responsible person or any adult at
the location of the violation may be charged accordingly.
   6.   Open Flame Devices. Open flame devices shall not be released into the
air, unless the device after release remains connected to a person able to
retrieve the device during or after use.
   7.   Public Property Use Restrictions. It is unlawful for any person to use
fireworks upon public property within the City, unless upon application and
permit therefore issued by the City in accordance with the requirements of
Section 48.03. This use restriction includes, but is not limited to, use of
fireworks upon City parks, street rights-of-way, sidewalks, recreational trail
areas, and the adjoining easement area thereto, and upon other easement areas
granted to the City.
48.09 SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   The following regulations apply to sales or selling of fireworks within the
City:
   1.   State Fire Marshall. The sale of consumer fireworks shall be regulated
by the State Fire Marshal. Dates of permitted sales, minimum requirements for a
consumer fireworks seller license and issuance of licenses shall be controlled
by the State Fire Marshal, and those rules and regulations are hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated into this chapter in addition to those provisions
herein stated. In the event of a conflict between the rules and regulations of
the State Fire Marshal and the provisions of this chapter, the stricter
provision shall be deemed controlling, in the absence of a State law providing
otherwise.
   2.   Place of Sales. The sale of fireworks shall be limited to either a
permanent building or temporary structure meeting the requirements of the State
Fire Marshal, which building or structure is a stand-alone structure under this
chapter.
   3.   NFP Standards. Any seller of consumer fireworks as described in APA 87-
1, Chapter 3, shall do so in accordance with the National Fire Protection
Standard 1124, published in the National Fire Protection Code relating to the
manufacture, transportation, storage and retail sales of fireworks and
pyrotechnic articles, 2006 Edition, and amendments thereto.
   4.   Permit and Insurance Required. A seller must provide to the Clerk proof
satisfactory to the City of the seller’s possession of a valid license issued
by the State Fire Marshal and a policy of commercial general liability
insurance with minimum limits per occurrence of $1,000,000 and minimum
aggregate limits of $2,000,000 with both the City and the property owner where
the permanent building or temporary structure is located shown as additional
insureds, effective during the entire duration of sale dates provided for under
law.
   5.   Sale dates and Times. Sales of fireworks from the following structures
are permitted each year during the dates and times shown. All times are local
time.
      A.   Permanent building. June 1 through July 8, and December 10, to the
following January 3, all dates inclusive.
      B.   Temporary structure. June 13 through July 8, inclusive.
      C.   The hours each day in which sales of fireworks may commence and
shall end shall be set by resolution of the Council and as may from time to
time be amended.
   6.   Age Restrictions. No consumer fireworks shall be sold to any person
under the age of 18 years on the date of sale.
   7.   Where Allowed. Fireworks sales shall be permitted only in areas not
zoned as residential under the City’s Zoning Code.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.03 Other Conditions       50.08 Subsequent Violation Within 365 Days
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited   50.09 Adult Establishments
50.05 Nuisance Abatement      
 
50.01 DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
   Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard, or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof. (See also Section 62.06) 
   7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also Chapter 51) 
   8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
   9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
   10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
   11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within
1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-
off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or
enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
   13.   Accumulation of Litter. Accumulation of litter, as defined in Chapter
105, on any premises, improved or vacant, or on any public place.
50.03 OTHER CONDITIONS.
   The following chapters of this Code contain regulations prohibiting or
restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
   1.   Inoperable Vehicles and Junk (See
Chapter 51)
   2.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
   3.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
   4.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
50.04 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance,
public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section 50.06 or the
municipal infraction procedure referred to in Section 50.07. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
50.06 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall
contain: † 4   
      A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.
   2.   Method of Service. Notice shall be in the form of an ordinance or by
certified mail to the property owner as shown by the records of the County
Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
   3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists, and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the
Council at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council
shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered
abated within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3(h))
   5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County
Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner
as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code. Caution is urged in the use of this
  administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement is more
4 than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does in fact
  exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we recommend
  you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with abatement and
  assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in court under
  Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section 50.06, the
requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures applicable to
municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3.
50.08 SUBSEQUENT VIOLATION WITHIN 365 DAYS.
   If a person allows a subsequent nuisance to exist within 365 days of being
served with a previous nuisance abatement notice involving the same subject
matter and property as the previous nuisance and for which the City abated the
previous nuisance pursuant to Section 50.06(5), the City shall have the right
to abate the subsequent nuisance without prior notice to such person and to
immediately certify the costs thereof to the County Treasurer.
50.09 ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   1.   As used in this section, “adult establishment” means any business that
provides nude or topless dancing or operates any other adult-oriented business.
   2.   A public safety nuisance exists when it is established by clear and
convincing evidence that an owner, manager, employee, contemporaneous patron,
or guest of an adult establishment commits any of the following acts either on
the premises or in any parking lots or areas, including but not limited to
public rights of way, adjacent to the premises:
      A.   Unlawfully discharges a firearm or uses an offensive weapon, as
defined in Section 724.1 of the Code of Iowa, regardless of whether it inflicts
injury or death.
      B.   Assaults another person with a dangerous weapon as defined in
section 702.7 of the Code of Iowa resulting in injury or death.
      C.   Engages in a riot as defined in section 723.1 of the Code of Iowa on
three or more dates within a twelve-month period to which the police respond
and disperse a crowd. The participants need not be the same persons for each
incident.
   3.   When the City Attorney believes a serious threat to the public safety
exists, the City Attorney or any other attorney on behalf of the City Attorney,
may file a suit in equity in the district court without bond seeking abatement
of the public safety nuisance arising from an adult establishment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.12)
CHAPTER 51
INOPERABLE VEHICLES AND JUNK
 
51.01 Purpose                                   51.06 Lot Parking
51.02 Definitions                               51.07 Lot Parking Duration
51.03 Keeping, Parking, and Storage of Unused   51.08 Abatement Procedure
Vehicles, Inoperable Vehicles, or Junk
51.04 Inoperable Vehicles and Junk a Nuisance   51.09 Auction Sale
51.05 Vehicles That Cannot Move Under Their Own 51.10 Penalties and Enforcement
Power
 
51.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   1.   Promote and protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
residents and property owners in the City.
   2.   Protect property values and the health, safety, and general welfare of
the residents of the City by limiting the use of the public right-of-way for
the storage of unused vehicles, inoperable vehicles, unused motor vehicles, and
inoperable motor vehicles.
   3.   Protect the City’s natural resources.
   4.   Promote the fair and equitable use of the public rights-of-way within
the City.
51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled or inoperable
vehicles, machinery and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or
appliances; iron, steel or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or
discarded glass, tinware, plastic or old or discarded household goods or
hardware. Neatly stacked firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not
considered to be junk.
   2.   “Lot” means the same as defined in the City’s Land Development Code.
   3.   “Motor vehicle” means every vehicle which is or is intended to be self-
propelled.
   4.   “Unused vehicle,” “unused motor vehicle,” “inoperable vehicle” and
“inoperable motor vehicle” means any vehicle to which any one or more of the
following criteria applies:
      A.   Unlicensed. Any vehicle which is required to be registered under the
laws of the State of Iowa that is not registered for the current year.
      B.   Inoperable. Any vehicle not in a safe and current operating
condition such that, upon request of a City police officer or nuisance
enforcement officer, the vehicle cannot be started and moved a distance of at
least 50 feet.
      C.   Uninsured. Any vehicle which lacks financial liability coverage, or
for which the owner does not possess and produce proof of financial liability
coverage, as required under Section 321.20B of the Code of Iowa.
      D.   Missing or Broken Glass. Any vehicle in which any portion of the
vehicle’s windshield, window(s), headlight(s), or taillight(s) is missing or
broken, regardless of whether any such vehicle component is or was composed of
glass or one or more other materials.
      E.   Wheels and Tires. Any vehicle that lacks functional and usable
wheels or tires.
      F.   Broken or Loose Parts. Any vehicle with broken or loose parts that
constitute a danger because of exposed, sharp, or jagged edges, or that make
any interior portion of the vehicle, including the trunk or engine compartment,
accessible to children or animals.
      G.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals. Any vehicle that has become a habitat
for rats, mice, or other vermin or insects.
      H.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
public health or safety.
   Mere licensing of a vehicle described in Section 51.02(3), above, does not
constitute a defense to the finding that the vehicle is in violation of this
chapter, provided that one or more other characteristics exist which define an
unused vehicle in this chapter.
   5.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, excepting
devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon rails or tracks, and
including without limitation, a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.03 KEEPING, PARKING, AND STORAGE OF UNUSED VEHICLES, INOPERABLE VEHICLES, OR
JUNK.
   No person shall park, place, keep or store or permit the parking, placing,
keeping or storage of an unused or inoperable vehicle, vehicular component
parts or miscellaneous junk and debris on any public or private property within
the corporate limits of the City unless it is within a completely enclosed
building. No person shall accumulate, store, or place, or permit the
accumulation, storage, or placement, of any unused vehicle in any public right-
of-way within the City. This section does not apply to short term emergency
repairs on licensed vehicles. The definition of “short term” shall be
determined by the Police Chief and the Public Works Director at their
discretion. This section does not apply to auto salvage yards lawfully operated
within the City and enclosed by a fence or wall at least eight feet in height
and so constructed as to prevent unauthorized entrance and access. If a
violation of this section occurs upon private property, the owner or person in
control of said property shall be prima facie liable for said violation.
51.04 INOPERABLE VEHICLES AND JUNK A NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that any inoperable or unused vehicle or junk located
on private property, unless excepted by Section 51.03, constitutes a threat to
the health and safety of the citizens and is a nuisance within the meaning of
Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. Upon discovery of any inoperable or
unused vehicle or junk located on private property in violation of this
chapter, the City shall initiate abatement procedures as outlined in
Chapter 50.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(a))
51.05 VEHICLES THAT CANNOT MOVE UNDER THEIR OWN POWER.
   1.   No person shall detach any camper, motorized or vehicle-drawn
recreational vehicle, vehicle in tow, trailer of any type, or other vehicle
that cannot move under its own power from a towing vehicle and leave it
standing in any public right-of-way.
   2.   No person shall unload a pickup camper from a pickup truck and leave it
standing in any public right-of-way.
   3.   No person shall leave a watercraft, whether standing on a trailer or
standing by itself, on any public right-of-way, unless physically attached to
an operable motor vehicle.
   4.   Subsections 1, 2, and 3 shall not apply to the following:
      A.   A construction site as permitted by the City Administrator or Zoning
Administrator.
      B.   The site of a special event as permitted by the City Administrator;
or
      C.   During loading or unloading of a camper, motorized or vehicle-driven
recreational vehicle, vehicle in tow, trailer of any type, or other vehicle
that cannot move under its own power, including pickup campers and watercraft,
for a period not exceeding four continuous hours.
51.06 LOT PARKING.
   No property owner or person in possession thereof shall allow more than two
vehicles, whether operable or inoperable, to be parked upon any lot exclusive
of vehicles parked entirely on driveways or in garages or carports.
51.07 LOT PARKING DURATION.
   No property owner or person in possession thereof shall knowingly or
unknowingly allow the parking or placement of any vehicles upon any lots,
exclusive of driveways, garages, or carports for more than seven days.
51.08 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Upon judgment in favor of the City regarding any municipal infraction issued
pursuant to this chapter, the Police Chief or Fire Chief may cause any vehicle
which is subject to the judgment to be removed from the public right-of-way and
stored at a location designated by the Police Chief.
51.09 AUCTION SALE.
   All inoperable vehicles removed and impounded shall be sold to the highest
bidder at a public auction, the time and place of which shall be duly published
in a newspaper of general circulation within the City not less than seven days
before said auction. All revenues derived from such sale shall accrue to the
City for the purpose of recovering its costs of removal and sale. Any excess
revenue from such sale shall be paid to the owner of the vehicle. Any
unrecovered costs shall be the responsibility of the owner of the vehicle.
51.10 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   1.   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a parking
citation and other relief provided in this Code.
   2.   Upon discovery of any unused vehicle in violation of this chapter, the
police or Nuisance Officer may initiate abatement proceedings as outlined in
this chapter, in addition to any parking citations issued.
   3.   In addition to any civil penalty and court costs which may be imposed,
any person who violates this chapter shall also be liable to the City for the
costs associated with abatement of the unused vehicle, including actual costs,
damages, expenses, staff time, and attorney fees incurred by the City,
including any costs for the removal and storing of the vehicle.
CHAPTER 52
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
 
52.01 Purpose                      52.05 Possession of Drug Paraphernalia
52.02 Controlled Substance Defined 52.06 Manufacture, Delivery, or Offering For
                                   Sale
52.03 Drug Paraphernalia Defined   52.07 Nuisance
52.04 Determining Factors           
 
52.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the use, possession with intent
to use, manufacture and delivery of drug paraphernalia as defined herein.
52.02 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE DEFINED.
   The term “controlled substance” as used in this chapter is defined as the
term “controlled substance” is defined in the Uniform Controlled Substance Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, as it now exists or is hereafter amended.
52.03 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA DEFINED.
   The term “drug paraphernalia” as used in this chapter means all equipment,
products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or
designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, concealing, containing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa. It includes, but is not limited to:
   1.   Growing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can
be derived.
   2.   Processing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances.
   3.   Isomerization Devices. Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or
designed for use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a
controlled substance.
   4.   Testing Equipment. Testing equipment used, intended for use, or
designed for use in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or
purity of controlled substances.
   5.   Scales. Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances.
   6.   Diluents. Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine, hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose or lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for
use in cutting controlled substances.
   7.   Separators - Sifters. Separation gins and sifters used, intended for
use, or designed for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise
cleaning or refining marijuana.
   8.   Mixing Devices. Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices
used, intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled
substances.
   9.   Containers. Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances.
   10.   Storage Containers. Containers and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
   11.   Injecting Devices. Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects
used, intended for use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting
controlled substances into the human body.
   12.   Ingesting-Inhaling Device. Objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing heroin, marijuana,
cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body, such as:
      A.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with
or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
      B.   Water pipes;
      C.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      D.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      E.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such as
a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
      F.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
      G.   Chamber pipes;
      H.   Carburetor pipes;
      I.   Electric pipes;
      J.   Air driven pipes;
      K.   Chillums;
      L.   Bongs;
      M.   Ice pipes or chillers.
52.04 DETERMINING FACTORS.
   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia for the purpose of
enforcing this chapter, the following factors should be considered in addition
to all other logically relevant factors:
   1.   Statements. Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the
object concerning its use.
   2.   Prior Convictions. Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone
in control of the object under any State or federal law relating to any
controlled substance.
   3.   Proximity To Violation. The proximity of the object, in time and space,
to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled Substance Act, Chapter 124 of
the Code of Iowa.
   4.   Proximity To Substances. The proximity of the object to controlled
substances.
   5.   Residue. The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object.
   6.   Evidence of Intent. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of
an owner or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons who,
he or she knows or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to
facilitate a violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of
the Code of Iowa.
   7.   Innocence of an Owner. The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in
control of the object, as to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, should not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   8.   Instructions. Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use.
   9.   Descriptive Materials. Descriptive materials accompanying the object
which explain or depict its use.
   10.   Advertising. National and local advertising concerning its use.
   11.   Displayed. The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
   12.   Licensed Distributor or Dealer. Whether the owner, or anyone in
control of the object, is a legitimate supplier of like or related items to the
community, such as a licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
   13.   Sales Ratios. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales
of the object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise.
   14.   Legitimate Uses. The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the
object in the community.
   15.   Expert Testimony. Expert testimony concerning its use.
52.05 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substance Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
52.06 MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY, OR OFFERING FOR SALE.
   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver,
manufacture with intent to deliver, or offer for sale drug paraphernalia,
intending that the drug paraphernalia will be used, or knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know that it will be used, or knowing
that it is designed for use to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform
Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
52.07 NUISANCE.
   Violation of this chapter shall constitute a nuisance which may be abated in
the manner provided in
Chapter 50, or in the alternative may be abated by injunction in the District
Court.
CHAPTER 53
NOISE CONTROL
 
53.01 Statement of Public Policy   53.06 Included Sounds
53.02 Purpose                      53.07 Excluded Sounds
53.03 Scope of Regulations         53.08 Sound Equipment Permit
53.04 Definitions                  53.09 Construction
53.05 Noise Disturbance Prohibited  
 
53.01 STATEMENT OF PUBLIC POLICY.
   The Council finds and declares that:
   1.   Noise Hazard. Excessive noise is a serious hazard to the public health
and welfare and the quality of life in a close urban society.
   2.   Abatement. A substantial body of science and technology exists by which
excessive noise can be substantially abated without serious inconvenience to
the public.
   3.   Essential Equipment. Certain of the noise-producing equipment in the
City is essential to the quality of life herein and should be allowed to
continue at reasonable levels with moderate regulation.
   4.   Personal Rights. Each person has a right to an environment reasonably
free from noise which jeopardizes health or welfare or unnecessarily degrades
the quality of life or diminishes property values.
   5.   Central Policy. It is the declared policy of the City to promote an
environment free from excessive noise, otherwise properly called noise
pollution, which unnecessarily jeopardizes the health and welfare and degrades
the quality of the lives and devalues the property of the residents of the
City, without unduly prohibiting, limiting or otherwise regulating the function
of certain noise-producing equipment which is not amenable to such controls and
yet is essential to the economy of and quality of life in the City.
53.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the control of
noise pollution in the City, and thereby to protect the public health, safety,
and general welfare.
53.03 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   This chapter shall apply to the control of all noise originating within the
limits of the City, except where either:
   1.   A State or federal agency has adopted a different standard or rule from
that prescribed within this chapter and has so preempted the regulation of
noise from a particular source as to render this chapter inapplicable thereto;
or,
   2.   The Council has determined that, by reason of public acceptance of the
activity producing a particular noise or noises, such noise is deemed
acceptable to the residents of the City.
53.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a
different intention, the following terms have the following meanings.
Definitions of technical terms used in this chapter which are not herein
defined shall be obtained from publications of acoustical terminology issued by
the American National Standards Institute (ANSI):
   1.   “Application” means the application discussed in Section
53.08.
   2.   “Building Official” means the person holding the office of Building
Official under the Building Code of the City, as said building code may be from
time to time amended or re-enacted. When said office is vacant or when such
person is out of the City or away from their duties because of vacation or
illness, Building Official means the person then holding the office of Director
of Public Works in the City.
   3.   “Emergency” means any occurrence or set of circumstances involving
actual or imminent physical or psychological trauma or property damage which
demands immediate action.
   4.   “Emergency work” means any work performed for the purpose of
alleviating or resolving an emergency.
   5.   “Motorcycle” means any two or three-wheeled motor vehicle.
   6.   “Motor vehicle” means any motor-powered vehicle designed to carry at
least one passenger or driver and of the type typically licensed for use on the
public highways. (Note: motor vehicle includes most motorcycles.)
   7.   “Noise” means any sound which disturbs humans or which causes or tends
to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
   8.   “Noise disturbance” means those sounds defined as noise disturbances in
Section
53.06.
   9.   “Person” means unless used in such a manner to denote only a human
being, any firm, partnership, domestic, or foreign corporation, association, or
joint stock company, trust or other association or entity, City, County, or
State government and subdivisions or agencies thereof and the federal
government and subdivisions and agencies thereof.
   10.   “Powered model vehicles” means any self-propelled airborne, waterborne
or land borne model plane, vessel, or vehicle which is not designed to carry
persons, including, but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car, or
rocket.
   11.   “Public right-of-way” means the traveled portion of any street,
avenue, boulevard, highway, which is owned or controlled by governmental
entity.
   12.   “Real property boundary” means an imaginary line along the ground
surface, and its vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by
one person from that owned by another person, but not including intra-building
real property divisions.
   13.   “Recreational vehicle” means any motor-powered vehicle designed to
carry at least one passenger or driver and equipped for use in racing or other
recreational events or uses off of public right-of-way on public or private
property; except, however, for the purposes of this chapter, any such vehicle
which is licensed for use on the public highways shall be deemed a motor
vehicle (and a motorcycle if two or three-wheeled) and not a recreational
vehicle. (Examples of recreational vehicles are snowmobiles, minibikes, stock
cars, or motorboats.)
   14.   “Residential property” means any property on which is located a
building or structure used wholly or partially for living or sleeping purposes.
   15.   “Sound” means an oscillation in pressure, particle displacement,
particle velocity or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces
that cause compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound
may include any characteristic of such sound, including duration, intensity,
and frequency.
   16.   “Sound equipment” means any radio, record player, tape deck or player,
loudspeaker, amplifier, soundtrack, or other device for producing, reproducing
or amplifying sound, except, however, sound equipment does not include:
      A.   Sirens and other equipment used to alert persons to the existence of
an emergency,
      B.   Equipment used by law enforcement and other public safety officials
in the performance of their official duties,
      C.   Church carillons, bells, or chimes,
      D.   Mobile radio or telephone signaling devices; and,
      E.   Automobile and truck radios, tape decks or players or other such
standard equipment used and intended for the use and enjoyment of the occupants
provided that the sound emitted therefrom is not audible for more than 50 feet
from such automobile or truck.
53.05 NOISE DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully make or continue, or cause or
allow to be made or continued, any noise disturbance within the City, and upon
conviction shall be subject to penalty as stated in Section
1.14.
53.06 INCLUDED SOUNDS.
   Except for sounds excluded in Section
53.07, the term noise disturbance, as used in this chapter, means any of the
following sounds:
   1.   Injurious or Disturbing Sounds Generally. Any sound which endangers or
injures the welfare, safety, or health of a human being, or disturbs a
reasonable human being of normal sensitivities, or causes or tends to cause an
adverse physiological or physical effect on human beings or devalues or injures
property.
   2.   Selling by “Hawking” or “Barking.” The sound of selling by shout or
outcry when made within the area of the City zoned residential or commercial.
   3.   Loading and Unloading. The sound made by the outdoors loading,
unloading, opening, closing, or handling of boxes, crates, containers, building
materials, garbage cans or similar objects between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. the following morning within any area of the City zoned residential.
   4.   Engine Repairs and Testing. The sound made by the repairing,
rebuilding, modifying, or testing of a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle
which is received between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the following
morning at the real property boundary of residential property.
   5.   Powered model vehicles. The sound made by the operation of a powered
model vehicle which is received between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
the following morning at the real property boundary of residential property.
   6.   Musical instruments. The sound made by a drum, horn, reed instrument,
string instrument, or other musical instrument or device which is received
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. at the property boundary of
residential property.
   7.   Off-Road Motorcycle and Recreational Vehicle Noise. The sound made on
private property or on City-owned property other than public right-of-way by a
motorcycle or recreational vehicle and received between the hours of 8:00 p.m.
and 8:00 a.m. the following morning at the real property boundary of
residential property; provided, however, the sound made by a motorcycle when
traveling from private property to a public right-of-way, or vice versa, in
pursuance of normal ingress or egress for purposeful transportation is not a
noise disturbance unless made so by some provision of this section other than
this Subsection 7.
   8.   Construction Noise. The sound made by tools or equipment in erection,
demolition, excavation, drilling, or other such construction work which is
received between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following morning at
the real property boundary of residential property.
   9.   Sound Equipment. The sound made by sound equipment operated upon the
public right-of-way or in any building or upon any premises, public or private,
if plainly audible from any public right-of-way within the City unless the
person using, operating, or causing to be used or operated the sound equipment
possesses a current sound equipment permit and the actual use or operation of
such sound equipment is not inconsistent with the statements made in the
application, the conditions imposed in the sound equipment permit or the
limitations specified in Subsection 4 of Section
53.08 of this chapter.
   10.   Racing. The sound made by a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle on
private property or public right-of-way during any racing event or time trial,
whether organized or unorganized.
   11.   Screeching Tires. The sound made by the intentional screeching or
squealing of the tires of a motor vehicle in areas of the City zoned
residential or commercial.
   12.   Noisy Exhaust System. The sound made by a motor vehicle or a
recreational vehicle whose exhaust system has been modified by the installation
of a muffler cut-out or by-pass.
   13.   Animal or Bird Noises. The frequent or habitual sound made by a
domesticated animal or bird, other than livestock owned or possessed for
agricultural purposes, which is received between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m. the following morning at the real property boundary of residential
property.
   14.   Engine Brakes Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any
vehicle to use or operate or cause to be used or operated within the corporate
City limits any engine brake, compression brake, or mechanical exhaust device
designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle that results in
excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle, unless such use
is necessary to avoid imminent danger. Signs stating “ENGINE BRAKE ORDINANCE
ENFORCED” shall be installed at locations at highway entry points to the City
and at any other areas deemed appropriate throughout the City. Emergency
vehicles shall be exempt from the provisions of this subsection.
53.07 EXCLUDED SOUNDS.
Any other provision of Section 53.06 or other sections of this chapter to the
contrary notwithstanding, the term "noise disturbance," as used in this
chapter, does not mean, or include the following sounds: ·
   1.   Lawn and Garden Equipment. The sound emitted by motor- powered,
muffler-equipped lawn and garden equipment operated between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   2.   Chainsaws. The sound emitted by motor-powered tree trimming equipment
operated between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
   3.   Snow Removal Equipment. The sound emitted by motor-powered, muffler-
equipped snow removal equipment operated between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:
00 p.m. and the sound emitted by City-owned or hired snow removal equipment.
   4.   Emergencies. The sound emitted in the performance of emergency work or
to alert persons to the existence of an emergency.
   5.   Alarms. The sound emitted by the intentional sounding outdoors of any
fire, burglar or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle, or similar stationery
emergency signaling device for emergency purposes or for the essential testing
of such device when conducted between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
   6.   Church Bells. The sound emitted by church carillons, bells, or chimes.
   7.   Automobile Radios. The sound emitted by an automobile or truck radio,
tape deck or player or other such standard equipment used and intended for the
use and enjoyment of such vehicle’s occupants while such vehicle is on the
public right-of-way, provided that the sound emitted therefrom is not audible
for more than 50 feet;
   8.   Certain Signaling Devices. The sound emitted by mobile radio or
telephone signaling devices. ·
   9.   Religious Ceremonies. The sound emitted in conjunction with a religious
celebration.
   10.   Law Enforcement. The sounds made or caused to be made by law
enforcement officials in the performance of their official duties.
   11.   Construction Noise. The sound emitted by construction work (erection,
demolition, excavation, drilling, etc.) between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. which is being performed pursuant to a proper and current building permit.
·
   12.   Mosquito Spraying Equipment. The sound made by City-owned or hired
mosquito spraying equipment.
53.08 SOUND EQUIPMENT PERMIT.
   No person shall use, operate or cause to be used or operated any sound
equipment upon the public right-of-way or in any building or upon any premises,
public or private, if the sound emitted thereby is plainly audible from the
public right-of-way within the City unless such person has obtained a sound
equipment permit in accordance with this section and the actual use or
operation of such sound equipment is. not inconsistent with the statements made
in the application, the conditions imposed in the sound equipment permit or the
limitations specified in Subsection 4·of this section. A sound equipment permit
shall not be transferable, and it shall be conspicuously displayed on or
adjacent to the sound equipment.
   1.   Application For Permit. Applications for sound equipment permits shall
be made in writing to the Clerk or Building Official and shall contain the
following information:
      A.   Name and address of applicant.
      B.   The purpose for which the sound equipment will be used.
      C.   The location where the sound equipment will be used.
      D.   The number of days of use and proposed hours of operation of the
sound equipment.
      E.   A general description of the sound equipment, including the license
number of any motor vehicle upon which it is to be operated.
      F.   Any other information as may be required by the Clerk or the
Building Official.
   2.   Permit Fee. The fee for a sound equipment permit shall be $25.00 per
event, except that no fee shall be required for a sound equipment permit issued
to the City, State, or the federal government or any governmental subdivision
or agency thereof.
   3.   Issuance of Permit. Permits may be issued by either the Building
Official or by the Clerk. Except as herein after provided, if the application
contains the required information and is accompanied by the required fee, the
sound equipment permit shall be issued with reasonable dispatch.
   4.   Limitations. Any other language in this section to the contrary
notwithstanding, a sound equipment permit shall not be issued if:
      A.   The sound to be emitted by the sound equipment is other than human
speech or music.
      B.   The sound equipment is to be operated for commercial advertising
purposes or for the purpose of attracting the attention of the public to any
building, structure, or vehicle for monetary profit or for the purpose of
advertising such sound equipment.
      C.   The sound to be emitted by the sound equipment would be a noise
disturbance under Section
53.06 (other than Subsection 9 of said section).
   A sound equipment permit issued in violation of this Subsection 4 is void
and of no force or effect.
   5.   Conditions. The Building Official, or the Council, as the case may be,
may impose reasonable conditions and requirements to be met or fulfilled by the
sound equipment permit holder preliminary to or at the time of the use or
operation of the sound equipment. Such conditions and requirements shall be
those conditions and requirements necessary or advisable to protect the health,
welfare and quality of life of the residents of the City and may include,
without limitation, restrictions on the time of day the sound equipment can be
used or operated, restrictions on the level of the sound to be produced and
restrictions on the number of minutes or consecutive minutes (or other unit of
time) that the sound equipment may be used or operated during any one hour or
day (or other unit of time).
53.09 CONSTRUCTION.
   No provisions of this chapter should be construed to legalize or permit
sounds, devices or activities made unlawful by other ordinances of the City or
State or federal Statutes.
CHAPTER 54
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
 
54.01 Definitions                  54.04 Seizure, Impoundment, and Disposition
54.02 Keeping of Dangerous Animals 54.05 Pit Bulls Prohibited
Prohibited
54.03 Keeping of Vicious Animals    
Prohibited
 
54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Dangerous animal” means: † 5
      A.   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, skunk, and mink.
      B.   Raccoons.
      C.   Bats.
      D.   Scorpions.
   2.   “Vicious animal” means any of the following:
      A.   Any animal, except for a dangerous animal as listed above, that has
attacked, bitten or clawed a person while running at large and the attack was
unprovoked; or,
      B.   Any animal that has exhibited vicious tendencies in present or past
conduct, including such that said animal:
         (1)   Has bitten or clawed a person or persons on two separate
occasions within a 12-month period; or,
         (2)   Did bite or claw once causing injuries above the shoulders of a
person; or,
         (3)   Could not be controlled or restrained by the owner at the time
of the attack to prevent the occurrence; or,
         (4)   Has attacked any domestic animal or fowl on three separate
occasions within a 12-month period.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Certain other dangerous animals, listed in Chapter 717F.1,
5 Paragraph 5a, of the Code of Iowa, are specifically prohibited and regulated by
  the Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship.
54.02 KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor any dangerous animal as a pet, or
act as a temporary custodian for such animal, or keep, shelter, or harbor such
animal for any purpose or in any capacity within the City.
54.03 KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor for any reason within the City a
vicious animal except in the following circumstances:
   1.   Animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency.
   2.   The keeping of guard dogs; however, guard dogs must be kept within a
structure or fixed enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large may
be processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
Any premises guarded by a guard dog shall be prominently posted with a sign
containing the wording “Guard Dog,” “Vicious Dog” or words of similar import,
and the owner of such premises shall inform the Mayor or peace officer that a
guard dog is on duty at said premises.
54.04 SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT, AND DISPOSITION.
   1.   In the event that a dangerous animal or vicious animal is found at
large and unattended upon public property, park property, public right-of-way
or the property of someone other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to
persons or property, such animal may, in the discretion of the Mayor or police
officer, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured. The City shall be
under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous animal or
vicious animal found at large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the owner of
such animal prior to its destruction.
   2.   Upon the complaint of any individual that a person is keeping,
sheltering or harboring a dangerous animal or vicious animal on premises in the
City, the Mayor or police officer shall cause the matter to be investigated and
if after investigation, the facts indicate that the person named in the
complaint is keeping, sheltering or harboring a dangerous or vicious animal in
the City, the Mayor or police officer shall order the person named in the
complaint to safely remove such animal from the City or destroy the animal
within three days of the receipt of such an order. Such order shall be
contained in a notice to remove the dangerous or vicious animal, which notice
shall be given in writing to the person keeping, sheltering, or harboring the
dangerous animal or vicious animal, and shall be served personally or by
certified mail. Such order and notice to remove the dangerous animal or vicious
animal shall not be required where such animal has previously caused serious
physical harm or death to any person, in which case the Mayor or police officer
shall cause the animal to be immediately seized and impounded or killed if
seizure and impoundment are not possible without risk of serious physical harm
or death to any person.
   3.   The order to remove a dangerous animal or vicious animal issued by the
Mayor or police officer may be appealed to the Council. In order to appeal such
order, written notice of appeal must be filed with the Clerk within three days
after receipt of the order contained in the notice to remove the dangerous or
vicious animal. Failure to file such written notice of appeal shall constitute
a waiver of the right to appeal the order of the Mayor or police officer.
   4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and shall
be delivered personally or by certified mail to the Clerk. The hearing of such
appeal shall be scheduled within seven days of the receipt of the notice of
appeal. The hearing may be continued for good cause. After such hearing, the
Council may affirm or reverse the order of the Mayor or police officer. Such
determination shall be contained in a written decision and shall be filed with
the Clerk within three days after the hearing or any continued session thereof.
   5.   If the Council affirms the action of the Mayor or police officer, the
Council shall order in its written decision that the person owning, sheltering,
harboring, or keeping such dangerous or vicious animal remove such animal from
the City or destroy it. The decision and order shall immediately be served upon
the person against whom rendered in the same manner as the notice of removal.
If the original order of the Mayor or police officer is not appealed and is not
complied with within three days or the order of the Council after appeal is not
complied with within three days of its issuance, the Mayor or police officer is
authorized to seize, impound, or destroy such dangerous or vicious animal.
Failure to comply with an order of the Mayor or police officer issued pursuant
to this chapter and not appealed (or of the Council after appeal) constitutes a
simple misdemeanor.
54.05 PIT BULLS PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for any
person to own, possess, keep, exercise control over, maintain, harbor,
transport, or sell any pit bull within the City.
   1.   Pit Bull and Owner Defined.
      A.   A “pit bull” is defined as any dog that is an American Pit Bull
Terrier, American Staffordshire Terrier, Staffordshire Bull Terrier, or any dog
displaying the majority of physical traits of any one or more of the above
breeds (more so than any other breed), or any dog exhibiting those
distinguishing characteristics which substantially conform to the standards
established by the American Kennel Club or United Kennel Club for any of the
aforementioned breeds, as from time to time may be modified. The final
determination of the classification of any dog lies with the Council.
      B.   An “owner” is defined as any person or entity who owns, possesses,
keeps, exercises control over, maintains, harbors, transports, or sells a pit
bull.
   2.   Exception to Prohibition. The owner of a pit bull currently licensed as
of the date of publication of the ordinance codified in this section and who
maintains the pit bull at all times in compliance with the requirements of this
section and all other applicable requirements of
Chapter 54 and
Chapter 55 of the Code of Ordinances, may keep a pit bull within the City
limits. Such requirements of this section are as follows:
      A.   The owner of the pit bull shall keep the license current by annual
renewal, and such license shall not be transferable and shall be renewable only
by the holder of the license or by a member of the immediate family, such
licensee who is at least 18 years of age. The owner of the pit bull must be at
least 18 years of age. The owner shall not be able to sell or transfer the pit
bull to any other person or entity located within the City except to a member
of the immediate family. The Police Department shall be notified by the owner
of any such sale or transfer within three days of the sale or transfer, and the
owner shall provide the name, age, address, and telephone number of the new
owner.
      B.   The owner must provide or present to the Police Department proof
that the owner has procured liability insurance in the minimum amount of
$100,000.00, covering any damage or injury that may be caused by a pit bull
during the duration of its license. Such policy shall contain a provision
requiring the insurance company to provide written notice to the Police
Department not less than 15 days prior to any cancellation, termination, or
expiration of the policy.
      C.   The owner, at their own expense, shall have the pit bull spayed or
neutered within 30 days of the final publication of this ordinance, and present
written proof to the Police Department from a licensed veterinarian that such
sterilization has been performed.
      D.   The owner shall cause to be placed and remain in place a sign at his
or her property entrance and which must contain the words “pit bull dog.” Said
sign shall be a minimum of 8” X 10” in size and the lettering on such sign
shall not be less than two inches in height.
      E.   At all times when a pit bull is at the property of the owner, the
owner shall keep the pit bull confined. “Confined,” as used in this section,
shall mean the dog shall be placed in a securely enclosed and locked pen or
structure upon the premises which shall be set back at least 10 feet from the
nearest property line of the premises. Said pen or structure must be
constructed of materials which prevent the pit bull from biting or otherwise
attacking a person wholly outside of the pen or structure. No owner or person
shall permit or allow such pit bull to be beyond the premises of such person
unless the pit bull is securely leashed and muzzled by a responsible adult, or
otherwise securely restrained in a kennel or other enclosure. The leash shall
be no longer than four feet. “Muzzled” shall mean that the jaws of the pit bull
are confined by a device that prevents the pit bull from biting. A “secured
temporary enclosure” shall mean an enclosure used for purposes of transporting
a pit bull and which includes a top and bottom permanently attached to the
sides except for a door for removal of the pit bull. Such enclosure must be
constructed in order to ensure that the pit bull may not exit the enclosure on
its own.
      F.   The owner of the pit bull must notify the Police Department within
five days in the event the pit bull is lost, stolen, dies, or has a litter.
      G.   In the event of a litter, the owner shall not keep any puppy of the
litter for more than eight weeks. Any puppy from the litter shall be
permanently transferred out of the City limits within eight weeks of its birth.
   3.   The City is authorized to immediately impound any pit bull found in the
City limits for which the foregoing requirements have not been strictly
complied with by the owner, and, upon such impoundment, shall be able to
dispose of the pit bull in accord with Section
55.04 or
55.14.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                  55.12 Confinement
55.02 Animal Neglect               55.13 Impoundment
55.03 Livestock Neglect            55.14 Disposition of Animals
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs 55.15 Impounding Costs
55.05 Livestock                    55.16 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.06 At Large Prohibited          55.17 Tampering With A Rabies Vaccination
                                   Tag
55.07 Damage or Interference       55.18 Tampering With An Electronic Handling
                                   Device
55.08 Annoyance or Disturbance     55.19 Transportation Fees
55.09 Vicious Animals              55.20 Unhealthful or Unsanitary Conditions
55.10 Rabies Vaccination           55.21 False Representation of Service Animal
55.11 Owner’s Duty               55.22 Municipal Infraction
 
55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium,
including (but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag, or articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
   3.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain
dogs or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   4.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the
control of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in
a veterinary hospital or kennel.
   5.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
      A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
      B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
      C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
      D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
   6.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   7.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
      A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
      C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
   8.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in
Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   9.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an animal’s
health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or organ, or
the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   10.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
   11.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an
animal.
   12.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   13.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   14.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine,
veterinary medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital,
diagnostic or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific
establishment situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or
instruction concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the
cause, prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human
beings or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   15.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169
of the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
55.02 ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
      A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
      B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably
sufficient to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the
animal’s health or life is endangered. Access to snow or ice does not satisfy
this requirement.
      C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
      D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate
protection from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age,
species, and physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a
state of good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered. The shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun
and have adequate bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and
dampness. A shelter may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
      E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent
adverse health effects or suffering.
      F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
         (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s
welfare as described in this section.
         (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal
to suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
   2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
         (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part
of the commercial establishment’s operation.
         (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as
described in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care
requirements provided in Section 162.10A(1) of the Code of Iowa, including any
applicable rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
applying to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section
162.10A(2)(a) or (2)(b) of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating
pursuant to Section 162.10A(2)(c) of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or
renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa and performs functions
within the scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the
research facility.
55.03 LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
   It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place
to fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices, or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance, or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04 ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
   1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept
ownership and custody of the cat or dog.
   2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or pound or that has
been issued or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture
and Land Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.05 LIVESTOCK.
   It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by
written consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.06 AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07 DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.08 ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles.
55.09 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious animal within the
City. An animal is deemed to be vicious when it has attacked or bitten any
person without provocation, or when propensity to attack or bite persons exists
and is known or ought reasonably to be known to the owner. In addition to any
remedies provided by this chapter, the City may cause removal of any vicious
animal in accord with the provisions and procedures set forth in
Chapter 54.
55.10 RABIES VACCINATION.
   Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It
is unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession,
six months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies. Dogs
kept in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are
not subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.11 OWNER’S DUTY.
   It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten
or attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.12 CONFINEMENT.
   If law enforcement receives information that an animal has bitten a person
or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, a law enforcement
official shall order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs.
If the owner fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal
shall be apprehended and impounded by law enforcement, and after 10 days may
have the animal humanely destroyed. If such animal is returned, the owner shall
pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if any police service
dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the performance
of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.13 IMPOUNDMENT.
   1.   Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded at the impoundment facilities utilized by the City, or at the
discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a summons to appear
before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
   2.   Anyone keeping, sheltering, or harboring a bothersome, interfering,
annoying, or disturbing animal in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of
a simple misdemeanor and continuing violation of said sections may result in
the impoundment and disposition of such animals as provided herein.
55.14 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days of impoundment provided the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal. Impounded animals may be redeemed by
the owner only upon providing the impoundment facility a written release from
the Police Department that all impoundment costs and fees have been fully paid,
and if the animal is a dog which is not vaccinated, by having the animal
immediately vaccinated. Should the owner fail to redeem the animal within seven
days of the commencement of the impoundment, the animal shall be disposed in
accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia. If the animal is euthanized,
the owner of the animal shall pay a $40.00 euthanasia fee to the Police
Department. Any dog or cat shall be properly sterilized before ownership may be
transferred by way of sale or adoption.
55.15 IMPOUNDING COSTS.
   Impounding costs shall be $60.00 for each impoundment during any calendar
year for the first day, or any part thereof, and $25.00 per day thereafter
while the animal is impounded. No animal shall be impounded for more than seven
days unless the animal has been impounded pursuant to the provisions of Section
55.12 and in sole discretion of the Police Department. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the impoundment costs for an animal impounded pursuant to the
provisions of Section
55.12 shall be $350.00, payable to the Police Department by or on behalf of
owner.
55.16 PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
   1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
      A.   A prize for participating in a game.
      B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
      C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
      D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
   2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
      B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting, or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.17 TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
   It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag
if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies
vaccination tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.18 TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
   It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
      B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached
to an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness,
or vest.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.19 TRANSPORTATION FEES.
   The owner of any dog, cat or other animal apprehended, impounded or confined
in accord with this chapter or Chapter 54 and subsequently transported by or on
behalf of the City for extermination, adoption or other disposition outside the
City limits shall be assessed a transportation fee of $125.00 for each such
animal transported.
55.20 UNHEALTHFUL OR UNSANITARY CONDITIONS.
   1.   An owner shall keep all structures, pens, coops or yards wherein
animals are confined clean, devoid of vermin and free of odors arising from
feces.
   2.   No owner of any animal, or person in possession thereof, shall permit
the animal to discharge feces upon any public or private property, other than
the property of the owner of the animal. The owner or person in possession
shall be deemed to permit the animal’s discharge of feces if the owner does not
immediately thereafter take steps to remove and clean up the feces from the
property.
   3.   All feces removed as aforesaid shall be placed in an airtight container
and shall be stored in a sanitary manner in an appropriate refuse container
until it is removed pursuant to refuse collection procedures or otherwise
disposed of in a sanitary manner.
   4.   An owner may, as an alternative to Subsection 3 above, collect the
feces and turn it under the surface of the owner’s soil in any manner that
prevents odor or collection of vermin.
55.21 FALSE REPRESENTATION OF SERVICE ANIMAL.
   A person commits the offense of intentional misrepresentation of an animal
as a service animal or a service-animal-in-training if, for the purpose of
obtaining any of the rights or privileges set forth in State or federal law,
the person intentionally misrepresents an animal in one’s possession as one’s
service animal or service-animal-in-training or a person with a disability’s
service animal or service-animal-in-training whom the person is assisting by
controlling.
55.22 MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   Any fees incurred by or on behalf of the City as a result of impoundment,
transportation, vaccination, or sterilization shall be immediately due and
payable by the owner of the animal. Failure to pay the fees as required by the
terms of this chapter may result in the issuance of a municipal infraction
citation to said owner wherein the City shall seek reimbursement of said costs
incurred on behalf of the owner’s animal and a monetary fine in accord with
Section
3.03.
CHAPTER 56
DOG LICENSE REQUIRED
 
56.01 License Required - Exception             56.04 Tags Displayed
56.02 License Application - Procedure and Fees 56.05 Duplicate Tag
56.03 Transfer or Change of Ownership           
 
56.01 LICENSE REQUIRED - EXCEPTION.
   All dogs six months old or older kept, harbored, or maintained by their
owners in the City shall be licensed annually by their owners as provided in
this chapter, and it is unlawful for the owner of any dog to fail to properly
license the animal except that the following dogs need not be licensed provided
they are properly immunized against rabies:
   1.   Dogs which are kept and raised solely for the bona fide purpose of sale
and which are kept under constant restraint in a kennel pursuant to Chapter 162
of the Code of Iowa, i.e. “Kennel Dogs”;
   2.   Guide dogs, owned by a blind or partially sighted person, and
specifically trained to aid such person;
   3.   Dogs that are under the control of the owner or handlers, and which are
in transit or are to be exhibited if they are to be within the City for less
than 30 days;
   4.   Service dogs specially trained, maintained and owned for the primary
purpose of assisting a physically disabled person with daily living activities
necessary to sustain a normal quality of life.
56.02 LICENSE APPLICATION - PROCEDURE AND FEES.
   1.   The owner of a dog for which a license is required shall on or before
July 1st of each year apply to the Police Department for a license for each dog
owned by owner.
   2.   Such application shall be in writing on forms provided by the Police
Department and shall state the breed, sex, age, color, markings, and name, if
any, of the dog, and the name, address, and telephone number of the owner, and
be signed by the owner.
   3.   Before a license is issued for any dog, the owner must present evidence
with the application that the dog has been vaccinated against rabies. Such
evidence shall be a certificate of vaccination signed by a licensed
veterinarian, and the certificate shall show that the vaccination is valid for
a minimum of 30 days from the date the license is purchased.
   4.   The annual license fee for each dog shall be $10.00.
   5.   All licenses shall expire on June 30 of the following year in which the
license was issued.
   6.   The annual license fee shall become delinquent on July 31 of the year
in which the same is due and payable as required in this section, and shall be
considered delinquent 30 days after such animal has come into the possession of
the owner or reached six months of age; and a penalty of $10.00 shall be added
to the cost of each unpaid license fee on and after such date.
56.03 TRANSFER OR CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   When the permanent ownership of a dog is transferred, the new owner shall
within 10 working days from the date of change of ownership make application
for a new license as provided under the provisions of this section and shall
pay the annual fee. It is unlawful for the new owner of any dog to fail to make
application for a new license within the time herein specified.
56.04 TAGS DISPLAYED.
   Upon an application and payment of the license fee, a license certificate
shall be issued to the owner. The tag shall have stamped thereon the number
corresponding with the number on the license certificate. Every owner shall be
required to provide each dog with a substantial collar or harness to which the
license tag shall be affixed, and the owner shall see that the collar or
harness bearing the license tag is constantly worn. It is unlawful for an owner
to fail to insure that the license tag is at all times worn by the dog and any
dog found not wearing a license tag shall be deemed not to be licensed and not
have a current rabies vaccination and shall be treated as unlicensed and
unvaccinated under the terms of the City and State laws.
56.05 DUPLICATE TAG.
   Upon filing of an affidavit with the Police Department that a license tag
has been lost or destroyed, the owner may obtain another tag upon the payment
of a $5.00 fee.
CHAPTER 57
CHICKENS WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS
 
57.01 Definitions          57.06 Disposal of Refuse
57.02 Permit Required      57.07 Distance from Dwellings
57.03 Permit Fee           57.08 Storage and Use and Maintenance
57.04 Revocation of Permit 57.09 Penalty
57.05 Nontransferable      57.10 Termination of Chapter
 
57.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Chickens” mean the domestic type of fowl birds kept for their eggs and
meat, and shall apply only to those fowl birds with the common characteristics
of chickens rather than other types of fowl.
   2.   “Owner” means any person or persons, firm, association, or corporation
owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring fowl chickens.
   3.   “Owner” or “person or entity in lawful possession and control of any
premises” means the fee title owner of any property or premises, or the person
or entity in actual possession or control of such premises under a lease or
real estate contract.
   4.   “Rear yard” means that space of a lot as defined in the City’ zoning
regulations, as from time to time may be amended.
   5.   “Director of Compliance” or “Director” means the person or persons
authorized by the City to monitor and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
In absence of any particular appointment by the City, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall be considered the director of compliance for purposes of this
chapter.
57.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   No person, firm, association, or corporation in the City shall have in
their possession or control, or keep or harbor any chickens, as defined in
Section 1, without having first obtained a permit to do so from the Director,
which permit shall be issued only after payment of the required fee and after
inspection of the premises by the Director for compliance with this chapter,
and the sanitation requirements of this chapter or any other applicable State
or local law. No permits for the keeping or harboring of any fowl other than
chickens shall be issued. Except as otherwise provided herein, a permit for the
keeping of chickens shall be in effect for one year from the date of its
issuance. Application for such permits shall be made upon forms furnished by
the City.
   2.   Upon expiration, such permit may be renewed by any person, firm,
association, or corporation to whom it has been issued, by filing an
application for a renewal thereof with the Director upon forms to be provided
by the City. Approval of the application for renewal of a permit shall be made
and the permit issued for the succeeding annual period only after payment of
the required fee and after inspection of the premises for compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, and the sanitation requirements of this chapter or
any other applicable State or local law. Except as otherwise provided herein,
every permit so renewed shall be for one year from and after the date of the
renewal, and shall be subject to revocation in the same manner as the original
permit.
   3.   Permits may be issued only to owners of any premises or persons or
entities in lawful possession of any premises with the written consent of the
owner of said premises, and only for premises consisting of single-family,
detached dwellings located in residentially zoned districts within the City
corporate limits.
   4.   Upon issuance of a permit, the owner is deemed to have provided the
Director, or their designee, the authority and right to enter upon the premises
at their discretion for the purpose of inspecting the premises for compliance
with this chapter.
57.03 PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for the initial issuance and any renewal of a permit for the keeping
of chickens shall be as provided in the City’s prevailing schedule of fees as
adopted by the Council from time to time by resolution. The fee shall not be
refundable if the permit is denied or revoked, or if the chickens are removed
or die.
57.04 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Director may revoke a permit for the keeping of chickens for any
violation of the provisions of this chapter, or any other pertinent sections of
this municipal code, or any statute of the State pertaining to the keeping of
chickens. Notice of revocation shall be given in writing, delivered personally
or by certified mail to the holder of such permit. The notice shall state the
grounds upon which the permit has been revoked and shall state that the holder
of the permit is required to remove all chickens from the premises concerned
within seven days after receipt of notice of revocation. The notice shall also
inform the permit holder of the right to appeal such revocation to the Council.
57.05 NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be sold, assigned, or
transferred, and shall apply only to the premises designated and the person,
firm, association, or corporation to whom issued. A violation of this provision
shall be cause for revocation of any such permit.
57.06 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   All manure and spilled grain shall be removed from the premises, or any
enclosure or structure thereon, at least once every 48 hours, and shall be
placed in suitable watertight and fly-tight containers until disposed. Such
materials shall be disposed of by causing same to be picked up by a licensed
private refuse hauler.
57.07 DISTANCE FROM DWELLINGS.
   1.   No person within the City shall keep, shelter, harbor, or coop any
chickens within 80 feet of any dwelling other than the dwelling of the owner of
such fowl chickens.
   2.   If the owner of the chickens is able to obtain the written consent of
the owner and occupant of an effected dwelling, the 80-foot requirement may be
waived as to that dwelling, so long as the owner and occupant of said dwelling
continues to consent to said waiver, and continues to reside in said dwelling.
   3.   Under no circumstances shall chickens be permitted to be kept within 20
feet of any dwelling.
57.08 STORAGE AND USE AND MAINTENANCE.
   1.   All grains and grain supplements intended for use as food for chickens
shall be kept and stored in a rodent-tight building or container.
   2.   No owner or person in lawful possession and control of the premises
shall keep, shelter, or harbor more than five hens at a single residential
dwelling.
   3.   No owner shall slaughter, maim, or intentionally kill within the
corporate limits any of its permitted chickens. Any chicken which may die
within corporate limits shall be immediately removed from the City limits and
disposed by the owner in a hygienic and safe manner.
   4.   All chickens permitted by the chapter shall be continuously housed or
stored in a secure screened or walled and roofed enclosure, coop, shelters, or
run in a manner that reasonably protects the chickens from predators, and of
all of which shall be located entirely within the rear yard of the permitted
premises. All such enclosures, coops, or shelters shall be not less than three
square feet in size per chicken provided such enclosure, coop, or shelter has a
run, and such enclosure, coop, or shelter shall not exceed five feet by five
feet, or 25 feet in total diameter; otherwise said enclosure, coop, or shelter
shall be not less than 10 feet by five feet, or 50 feet in total diameter. No
part of any such enclosure, coop, shelter, or run shall be located within 80
feet of any dwelling or as otherwise set forth in Section 57.07. The materials
utilized in the construction of the enclosure, coop, shelter, or run shall be
subject to the approval of the Director and shall be located in compliance with
the applicable rear and side lot line restrictions.
   5.   All enclosures, coops, or shelters shall have a roost for each fowl
chicken not less than eight square inches.
   6.   All enclosures, coops, or shelters shall have not less than one laying
box for every three chickens of which each laying box shall not be less than
one square foot in diameter. Each laying box shall be dressed with adequate and
proper bedding materials.
   7.   No owner shall allow, whether knowingly or unknowingly, any chickens to
run at large or otherwise outside of the enclosure, coop, shelter, or run for
which the chickens are housed or stored.
57.09 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or any legal entity found guilty
of a violation of any of the provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be subject to the penalty provisions of a municipal infraction. Each day that a
violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation. Any owner deemed violating this chapter by the City or the Director
shall immediately have its permit revoked and shall be prohibited from
receiving another permit for a minimum period of 12 months after revocation of
the permit.
57.10 TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   1.   Commencing August 1, 2021, no permits, with the exception of renewal of
permits under Section
57.02, shall be issued pursuant to this chapter to any person, firm,
association, or other entity seeking to possess, control, keep, or harbor
chickens as defined in this chapter. Any person, firm, association, or other
entity that has in existence on August 1, 2021, a valid permit or renewal
permit used pursuant to Section 57.02 shall be able to timely seek renewal
permits for chickens in their respective possession pursuant to this chapter
but shall not be able to add any more chickens to its possession under the
terms of this chapter after July 31, 2021.
   2.   Any person, firm, association, or other entity that has a validly
issued permit or renewal permit pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall
comply with all the terms and conditions of this chapter to continue to
possess, harbor, control, and keep its chickens which exist as of July 31,
2021, within the corporate limits of the City.
   3.   This chapter shall terminate and be considered repealed when there are
no further chickens harbored within the corporate limits of the City pursuant
to this chapter.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic         
 
60.01 TITLE.
   Chapters 60 through
70 may be known and cited as the “Glenwood Traffic Code” (and are referred to
herein as the “Traffic Code”).
60.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law,
such definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
   1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including the
following designated streets:
      A.   Coolidge Street from Chestnut Street to Locust Street.
      B.   First Street from Chestnut Street to Locust Street.
      C.   Second Street from Chestnut Street to Locust Street.
   2.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
   3.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   4.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   5.   “Pedestrian” means a person afoot or a person using a pedestrian
conveyance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51))
   6.   “Pedestrian conveyance” means any human-powered device by which a
pedestrian may move other than by walking or by which a pedestrian may move
another person, including but not limited to a wheelchair, stroller,
skateboard, scooter, or other similar device. Pedestrian conveyance also
includes an electric personal assistive mobility device and any other device
used to move a person sitting or standing on the device regardless of whether
the device is powered by an electric motor, so long as the electric motor
produces less than 750 watts. Pedestrian conveyance does not include a bicycle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51)(A))
   7.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(63))
   8.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(70))
   9.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   10.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   11.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   12.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(78))
   13.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   14.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway. Vehicle does
not include:
      A.   Any device moved by human power, including a low-speed electric
bicycle.
      B.   Any device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      C.   Any personal delivery device operated pursuant to Chapter 321O of
the Code of Iowa.
      D.   Any integral part of a truck tractor or road tractor which is
mounted on the frame of the truck tractor or road tractor immediately behind
the cab and which may be used to transport persons and property, but which
cannot be drawn upon the highway by the truck tractor or another motor vehicle.
      E.   Any steering axle, dolly, auxiliary axle, or other integral part of
another vehicle which in and of itself is incapable of commercially
transporting any person or property but is used primarily to support another
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Section 321.1(90))
60.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Provisions of this chapter and State law relating to motor vehicles and law
of the road are enforced by the Police Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04 POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the
Fire Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the
event of an emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05 REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the
City shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06 PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
   A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07 OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01 INSTALLATION.
   The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency
or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or
warn traffic. The Police Chief shall keep a record of all such traffic control
devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02 CROSSWALKS.
   The Police Chief is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control
devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places
as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4) and 321.255)
61.03 TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13(4) and 321.255)
61.04 STANDARDS.
   Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05 COMPLIANCE.
   No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official
traffic control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, unless at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under
Section 321.231 and 321.231A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.04 Clinging to Vehicle
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.05 Quiet Zones
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
 
62.01 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of
a peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
   2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
   3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
   4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
   5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
   6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
   7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
   8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
   9.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
   10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
   11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
   12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
   13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
   14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial
vehicles.
   15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicle with expired license.
   16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits,
and chauffeur’s instruction permits.
   17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.
   18.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
   19.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ restricted license.
   20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
   21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
   22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
   23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
   24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
   25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
   26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
   27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
   28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
   29.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle
rental.
   30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
   31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
   32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
   33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
   34.   Section 321.235B – Low-speed electric bicycles.
   35.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
   36.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
   37.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
   38.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals;
unlawful possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
   39.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited;
vehicle damage only; removal of vehicles.
   40.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal
injury accident.
   41.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
   42.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
   43.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
   44.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   45.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while
driving; text-messaging.
   46.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
   47.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
   48.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
   49.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
   50.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
   51.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
   52.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
   53.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
   54.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
   55.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
   56.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
   57.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
   58.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
   59.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
   60.   Section 321.305 – One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands.
   61.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
   62.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
   63.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
   64.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
   65.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
   66.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
   67.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
   68.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
   69.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
   70.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
   71.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
   72.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
   73.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
   74.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
   75.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
   76.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
   77.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
   78.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
   79.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
   80.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
   81.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
   82.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
   83.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
   84.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
   85.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   86.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
   87.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
   88.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
   89.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
   90.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
   91.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
   92.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
   93.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
   94.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous
material.
   95.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
   96.   Section 321.366 – Acts prohibited on fully-controlled access
facilities.
   97.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
   98.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
   99.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
   100.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
   101.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
   102.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements;
penalties.
   103.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
   104.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
   105.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
   106.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
   107.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
   108.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
   109.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles, motorized bicycles, and
all-terrain vehicles.
   110.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
   111.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
   112.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
   113.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
   114.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
   115.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
   116.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
   117.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
   118.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
   119.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
   120.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
   121.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
   122.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
   123.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
   124.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
   125.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
   126.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
   127.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
   128.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
   129.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
   130.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
   131.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
   132.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
   133.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
   134.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
   135.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
   136.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
   137.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, air horns, and bells prohibited.
   138.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
   139.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
   140.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
   141.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
   142.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
   143.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
   144.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
   145.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
   146.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
   147.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
   148.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
   149.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
   150.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
   151.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while
operating a commercial motor vehicle.
   152.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
   153.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
   154.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
   155.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
   156.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
   157.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
   158.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
   159.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
   160.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
   161.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
   162.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
   163.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02 PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
   The Police Chief shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof
a play street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the
roadway indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs
are erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person
shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area
except at a driveway.
62.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or themselves to any
vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05 QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06 OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
   It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to
obstruct the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear
view of traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such
obstruction is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be
abated in the manner provided by
Chapter 50.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                             63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits             63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots  
 
63.01 GENERAL.
   Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
of any other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on
any street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a
stop within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02 STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
   The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
   1.   Business District – 20 MPH.
   2.   Residence or School District – 25 MPH.
   3.   Suburban District – 45 MPH.
63.03 PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
   A speed in excess of 15 MPH in any public park, cemetery, or parking lot,
unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(5))
63.04 SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
   In accordance with requirements of the State Department of Transportation,
or whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
   1.   Special 10 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 10 MPH is unlawful on
any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Lake Drive from Green Street to Sharp Street.
      B.   Louise Avenue from East Florence Street to Shelby Lane.
   2.   Special 20 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 20 MPH is unlawful on
any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Coolidge Street from Grove Street to Hazel Street.
   3.   Special 25 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 25 MPH is unlawful on
any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Sharp Street and East Sharp Street from Vine Street to Redbud
Avenue.
      B.   Railroad Avenue.
      C.   Redbud Avenue from East Sharp Street north to corporate limits.
   4.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 MPH is unlawful on
any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Locust Street from south corporate limits to Coolidge Street.
      B.   Locust Street from Second Street to north corporate limits.
63.05 MINIMUM SPEED.
   A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede
or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn on Green Arrow Only
64.02 U-Turns                  64.04 Left Turn Prohibited
 
64.01 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
   The Police Chief may cause markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions
require, that a different course from that specified above be traveled by
vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or signs.
64.02 U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection,
provided, however, U-turns are prohibited at intersections where there are
automatic traffic signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(9))
64.03 LEFT TURN ON GREEN ARROW ONLY.
   A person may make a protected left hand turn at the following location when
the green arrow of the traffic control signal is illuminated.
   1.   Intersection of Sharp Street and Locust Street - westbound traffic.
64.04 LEFT TURN PROHIBITED.
   When appropriate signs are in place, no driver shall make a left turn at the
following locations:
   1.   At the approach to Walnut Street between Fist Street and Sharp Street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Through Streets             65.06 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.02 Stop Required               65.07 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.03 Four-Way Stop Intersections 65.08 Pedestrians’ Right-of-Way
65.04 Yield Required              65.09 Official Traffic Controls
65.05 School Stops                 
 
65.01 THROUGH STREETS.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated through
streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Locust Street, from Ebaugh Street to Gateway Drive.
   2.   Sharp Street, from Park Avenue to Redbud Avenue.
   3.   Vine Street, from Iowa Street to 10th Street.
   4.   Walnut Street, from Tyson Street to Center Street.
65.02 STOP REQUIRED.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Arnold Street. Vehicles traveling on Arnold Street shall stop at Hazel
Street.
   2.   Arnold Street. Vehicles traveling east on Arnold Street shall stop at
Locust Street.
   3.   Birch Street. Vehicles traveling east on Birch Street shall stop at
Glenbrook Drive.
   4.   Birch Street. Vehicles traveling southwest on Birch Street shall stop
at Valley Street.
   5.   Camp Road. Vehicles traveling north on Camp Road shall stop at Main
Street.
   6.   Central Street. Vehicles traveling south on Central Street shall stop
at Main Street.
   7.   Chestnut Street. Vehicles traveling on Chestnut Street shall stop at
Coolidge Street.
   8.   Chestnut Street. Vehicles traveling on Chestnut Street shall stop at
Fourth Street.
   9.   Chestnut Street. Vehicles traveling on Chestnut Street shall stop at
Nuckolls Street.
   10.   Chestnut Street. Vehicles traveling south on Chestnut Street shall
stop at First Street.
   11.   Coolidge Street. Vehicles traveling on Coolidge Street shall stop at
Locust Street.
   12.   Crossway Street. Vehicles traveling easterly on Crossway Street shall
stop at Timber Lane.
   13.   Crossway Street. Vehicles traveling westerly on Crossway Street shall
stop at Valleyway Street.
   14.   East Florence Avenue. Vehicles traveling south on East Florence Avenue
shall stop at Tenth Street.
   15.   Ebaugh Street. Vehicles traveling northeasterly on Ebaugh Street shall
stop at Arnold Street.
   16.   Ebaugh Street. Vehicles traveling southeasterly on Ebaugh Street shall
stop at Locust Street.
   17.   Eleventh Street. Vehicles traveling west on Eleventh Street shall stop
at Linn Street.
   18.   Eleventh Street. Vehicles traveling east on Eleventh Street shall stop
at Timber Lane.
   19.   Elm Street. Vehicles traveling north on Elm Street shall stop at Sixth
Street.
   20.   Elmwood Circle. Vehicles traveling north on Elmwood Circle shall stop
at Valley Street.
   21.   Fairview Drive. Vehicles traveling east on Fairview Drive shall stop
at the County Road.
   22.   Fairview Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Fairview Drive shall stop
at Linn Street.
   23.   Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling on Fifth Street shall stop at Hazel
Street.
   24.   Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling on Fifth Street shall stop at Myrtle
Street.
   25.   Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling east on Fifth Street shall stop at
Locust Street.
   26.   Fifth Street. Vehicles traveling west on Fifth Street shall stop at
Elm Street.
   27.   First Street. Vehicles traveling on First Street shall stop at Elm
Street.
   28.   First Street. Vehicles traveling on First Street shall stop at Grove
Street.   
   29.   First Street. Vehicles traveling east on First Street shall stop at
Linn Street.
   30.   First Street. Vehicles traveling east or west on First Street shall
stop at Locust Street.
   31.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling on Fourth Street shall stop at
Chestnut Street.
   32.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling on Fourth Street shall stop at
Sivers Road.
   33.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling on Fourth Street shall stop at Linn
Street.
   34.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling on Fourth Street shall stop at
Myrtle Street.
   35.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling on Fourth Street shall stop at Elm
Street.
   36.   Fourth Street. Vehicles traveling on Fourth Street shall stop at
Locust Street.
   37.   Gateway Drive. Vehicles traveling northeast on Gateway Drive shall
stop at the intersection of U.S. Highway 275.
   38.   Gateway Drive. Vehicles traveling northeasterly on Gateway Drive shall
stop at Locust Street.
   39.   Glenbrook Drive. Vehicles traveling south on Glenbrook Drive shall
stop at Sixth Street.
   40.   Glenbrook Drive. Vehicles traveling south on Glenbrook Drive shall
stop at Valley Street.
   41.   Glenwood Heights Apartment Drive. Vehicles traveling on Glenwood
Heights Apartment Drive shall stop at Ebaugh Street.
   42.   Green Street. Vehicles traveling on Green Street shall stop at Hazel
Street.
   43.   Green Street. Vehicles traveling east on Green Street shall stop at
Locust Street.
   44.   Grove Street. Vehicles traveling on Grove Street shall stop at
Coolidge Street.
   45.   Grove Street. Vehicles traveling on Grove Street shall stop at Fifth
Street.
   46.   Grove Street. Vehicles traveling on Grove Street shall stop at Fourth
Street.
   47.   Grove Street. Vehicles traveling on Grove Street shall stop at Green
Street.
   48.   Grove Street. Vehicles traveling north on Grove Street shall stop at
Third Street.
   49.   Grove Street. Vehicles traveling south on Grove Street shall stop at
Townsend Street.
   50.   Harolds Drive. Vehicles traveling northeasterly on Harolds Drive shall
stop at Locust Street.
   51.   Hazel Street. Vehicles traveling on Hazel Street shall stop at Arnold
Street.
   52.   Hazel Street. Vehicles traveling on Hazel Street shall stop at
Coolidge Street.
   53.   Hazel Street. Vehicles traveling on Hazel Street shall stop at First
Street
   54.   Hazel Street. Vehicles traveling on Hazel Street shall stop at Fourth
Street.
   55.   Hazel Street. Vehicles traveling on Hazel Street shall stop at Green
Street.
   56.   Hazel Street. Vehicles traveling on Hazel Street shall stop at Locust
Street.
   57.   Hazel Street. Vehicles traveling south on Hazel Street shall stop at
Third Street.
   58.   Hazel Street. Vehicles traveling south on Hazel Street shall stop at
Fifth Street.
   59.   Hillcrest Avenue. Vehicles traveling southeasterly on Hillcrest Avenue
shall stop at Glenbrook Drive.
   60.   Hillway Drive. Vehicles traveling on Hillway Drive shall stop at
Fairview Drive.
   61.   Hillway Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Hillway Drive shall stop at
Valleyway.
   62.   Independence Street. Vehicles traveling north on Independence Street
shall stop at Main Street.
   63.   Indian Hills. Vehicles traveling northwesterly on Indian Hills shall
stop at Lacey Street.
   64.   Industrial Road. Vehicles traveling west on Industrial Road shall stop
at Railroad Avenue.
   65.   Industrial Road. Vehicles traveling west on Industrial Road shall stop
at County Road.
   66.   Intersection of alley with Coolidge Street between Walnut Street and
Locust Street. Vehicles traveling south in the alley between Walnut Street and
Locust Street shall stop at Coolidge Street.
   67.   Iowa Street. Vehicles traveling on Iowa Street shall stop at Main
Street.
   68.   Lacey Street. Vehicles traveling on Lacey Street shall stop at Main
Street.
   69.   Lacey Street. Vehicles traveling east on Lacey Street shall stop at
Independence Street.
   70.   Lacey Street. Vehicles traveling north on Lacey Street shall stop at
Green Street.
   71.   Lacey Street. Vehicles traveling west on Lacey Street shall stop at
Iowa Street.
   72.   Lake Drive. Vehicles traveling northeasterly on Lake Drive shall stop
at Sharp Street (U.S. Business 34 and 275).
   73.   Lake Drive. Vehicles traveling southwesterly on Lake Drive shall stop
at Green Street.
   74.   Linn Street. Vehicles traveling on Linn Street shall stop at Fourth
Street.
   75.   Linn Street. Vehicles traveling on Linn Street shall stop at Tenth
Street and Linn Street Intersection.
   76.   Linn Street. Vehicles traveling on Linn Street shall stop at Second
Street.
   77.   Louise Avenue. Vehicles traveling on Louise Avenue shall stop at the
intersection of East Florence Avenue and Louise Avenue.
   78.   Main Street. Vehicles traveling west on Main Street shall stop at
Lacey Street.
   79.   Myrtle Street. Vehicles traveling on Myrtle Street shall stop at First
Street.
   80.   Myrtle Street. Vehicles traveling on Myrtle Street shall stop at Third
Street.
   81.   Myrtle Street. Vehicles traveling on Myrtle Street shall stop at Fifth
Street.
   82.   Myrtle Street. Vehicles traveling on Myrtle Street shall stop at
Fourth Street.
   83.   Northeast Elementary School Drive. Vehicles traveling east on
Northeast Elementary School Drive shall stop at Linn Street.
   84.   Nuckolls Street. Vehicles traveling on Nuckolls Street shall stop at
Chestnut Street.
   85.   Nuckolls Street. Vehicles traveling on Nuckolls Street shall stop at
Hazel Street.
   86.   Nuckolls Streets. Vehicles traveling on Nuckolls Street shall stop at
Locust Street.
   87.   Nuckolls Streets. Vehicles traveling west on Nuckolls Street shall
stop at Grove Street.
   88.   Orchard Drive. Vehicles traveling on Orchard Drive shall stop at Main
Street.
   89.   Pinehurst Circle. Vehicles traveling on Pinehurst Circle shall stop at
Glenbrook Drive.
   90.   Railroad Avenue. Vehicles traveling northeast on Railroad Avenue shall
stop at Vine Street.
   91.   Railroad Avenue. Vehicles traveling southwest on Railroad Avenue shall
stop at Hazel Street.
   92.   Ridgeway Drive. Vehicles traveling east on Ridgeway Drive shall stop
at Hillway Drive.
   93.   Ridgeway Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Ridgeway Drive shall stop
at Valleyway.
   94.   Second Street. Vehicles traveling on Second Street shall stop at
Chestnut Street.
   95.   Second Street. Vehicles traveling on Second Street shall stop at
Myrtle Street.
   96.   Second Street. Vehicles traveling on Second Street shall stop at Grove
Street.
   97.   Second Street. Vehicles traveling east on Second Street shall stop at
Linn Street.
   98.   Second Street. Vehicles traveling on Second Street shall stop at
Locust Street.
   99.   Shamrock Circle. Vehicles traveling on Shamrock Circle shall stop at
Valley Street.
   100.   Sharp Street. Vehicles traveling on Sharp Street shall stop at Myrtle
Street.
   101.   Sharp Street. Vehicles traveling on Sharp Street shall stop at Elm
Street.
   102.   Sivers Road. Vehicles traveling northerly on Sivers Road shall stop
at Fourth Street.
   103.   Sixth Street. Vehicles traveling west on Sixth Street shall stop at
Locust Street.
   104.   Tenth Street. Vehicles traveling east on Tenth Street shall stop at
Linn Street.
   105.   Terrace Circle. Vehicles traveling southwest on Terrace Circle shall
stop at Glenbrook Drive.
   106.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling east on Third Street shall stop at
Myrtle Street.
   107.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling east on Third Street shall stop at
Linn Street.
   108.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling on Third Street shall stop at Locust
Street.
   109.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling on Third Street shall stop at
Chestnut Street.
   110.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling on Third Street shall stop at Hazel
Street.
   111.   Third Street. Vehicles traveling west on Third Street shall stop at
Elm Street.
   112.   Timber Lane. Vehicles traveling south on Timberlane shall stop at
Fairview Drive.
   113.   Timber Lane. Vehicles traveling southeasterly on Timberlane shall
stop at County Road.
   114.   Townsend Street. Vehicles traveling on Townsend Street shall stop at
Hazel Street.
   115.   Townsend Street. Vehicles traveling on Townsend Street shall stop at
Locust Street.
   116.   Tyson Street. Vehicles traveling on Tyson Street shall stop at Vine
Street.
   117.   Tyson Street. Vehicles traveling on Tyson Street shall stop at Locust
Street.
   118.   Tyson Street. Vehicles traveling west on Tyson Street shall stop at
Hazel Street.
   119.   Valley Street. Vehicles traveling east on Valley Street shall stop at
Glenbrook Drive.
   120.   Valleyway Drive. Vehicles traveling south on Valleyway Drive shall
stop at Fairview Drive.
   121.   Valleyway Drive. Vehicles traveling west on Valleyway Drive shall
stop at Timber Lane.
   122.   Vine Street. Vehicles traveling on Vine Street shall stop at First
Street.
   123.   Walnut Street. Vehicles traveling north on Walnut Street shall stop
at Nuckolls Street.
   124.   Walnut Street. Vehicles traveling on Walnut Street shall stop at West
Florence Avenue.
   125.   Walnut Street. Vehicles traveling on Walnut Street shall stop at
Fourth Street.
   126.   Walnut Street. Vehicles traveling south on Walnut Street shall stop
at Tyson Street.
   127.   Walnut Street. Vehicles traveling south on Walnut Street shall stop
at First Street.
   128.   Woodlawn Avenue. Vehicles traveling northeasterly on Woodlawn Avenue
shall stop at Locust Street.
   129.   Woodlawn Avenue. Vehicles traveling southwest on Woodlawn Avenue
shall stop at Glenbrook Drive.
65.03 FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following
designated four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Intersection of Arnold Street and Hazel Street.
   2.   Intersection of Green Street and Hazel Street.
   3.   Intersection of Hazel Street and Coolidge Street.
   4.   Intersection of Linn Street and Fourth Street.
   5.   Intersection of Myrtle Street and Fourth Street.
65.04 YIELD REQUIRED.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Grove Street. Vehicles traveling south on Grove Street shall yield at
Third Street.
65.05 SCHOOL STOPS.
   At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
   1.   Intersection of Fairview Drive and Linn Street.
   2.   Intersection of Linn Street at the Northeast Elementary School Drive.
   3.   Intersection of Vine Street and Ninth Street.
   4.   Intersection of Walnut Street and Ninth Street.
65.06 STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.07 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
   Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.08 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver
of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need
be, to so yield to a pedestrian or a person riding a bicycle crossing the
roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
65.09 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROLS.
   Every driver shall observe and comply with the directions provided by
official traffic control signals at the following intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
   1.   148 feet north of Sixth Street on Locust Street.
   2.   Intersection of Sharp Street and Locust Street.
   3.   Intersection of Sharp Street and Vine Street.
   4.   Intersection of Sharp Street and Walnut Street.
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
 
66.01 TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
   If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets
will be seriously damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an
amount specified by the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so
designated by such signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
66.02 PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
   The Police Chief may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E.2)
66.03 LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
   1.   Fourth Street from Elm Street to City limits.
   2.   Green Street from Vine Street to east City limits.
   3.   Grove Street from Sharp Street to Sixth Street.
   4.   Linn Street from Fourth Street to City limits.
   5.   Nuckolls Street from Grove Street to Vine Street.
   6.   Railroad Avenue from Vine Street to County Road.
   7.   Sharp Street from west City limits to Locust Street.
   8.   Sixth Street from City limits to Grove Street.
   9.   Vine Street from Railroad Underpass north to Fourth Street.
66.04 LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
   Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than
the maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Mayor may cause to be posted and maintained signs on said bridge
and at suitable distances ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers of
such maximum load limits. No person shall drive upon said bridge any vehicle
weighing, loaded or unloaded, in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking       67.04 Use of Sidewalks
 
67.01 WALKING IN STREET.
   Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on
the left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02 HITCHHIKING.
   No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03 PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
67.04 USE OF SIDEWALKS.
   Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
   Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than
permitted cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when
appropriate signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
   1.   Ninth Street shall be westbound only from Vine Street to Walnut Street
between the hours of 7:30 a.m. to 8:45 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. to 3:45 p.m.
   2.   Myrtle Street shall be southbound only from First Street to Sharp
Street for a period of two hours starting one hour before the commencement of
the first West Elementary School period on all Glenwood Community District
school days.
   3.   Sharp Street, from Grove Street to Myrtle Street, school bus traffic
only one-half hour prior to the commencement of West Elementary School and one-
half hour after the commencement of West Elementary School on all Glenwood
Community School District days.
   4.   Sharp Street shall be eastbound only from Grove Street to Hazel Street
one-half hour prior to the commencement of West Elementary School and one-half
hour after the commencement of West Elementary School on all Glenwood Community
School District days.
   5.   Sharp Street will be westbound only from Myrtle Street to Elm Street
from 3:00 p.m. until 3:20 p.m. on all school days.
   6.   The Sports Complex Road will be for one-way traffic commencing at the
east entrance at all times.
   7.   Vine Street shall be northbound only from school property line at the
south end to East Florence Avenue from 7:50 a.m. to 8:15 a.m. and 2:45 p.m. to
3:10 p.m. on all school days.
   8.   Vine Street shall be southbound only from Ninth Street to Tenth Street
between the hours of 7:30 a.m. to 8:45 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. to 3:45 p.m.
   9.   
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb                69.10 Truck Parking Limited
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets           69.11 Parking Limited to One Hour
69.03 Angle Parking                        69.12 Parking Limited to Two Hours
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking              69.13 Parking Limited to Ten Minutes
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes Illegal 69.14 Parking Limited
69.06 Parking Prohibited                   69.15 Snow Emergency
69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking    69.16 Fire Lanes
69.08 No Parking Zones                     69.17 Controlled Access Facilities
69.09 Overnight Parking                    69.18 Glenwood Library Parking
 
69.01 PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking
and vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02 PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03 ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
   1.   First Street in the center, and on the north and south side from Walnut
Street to Vine Street.
   2.   Sharp Street, on both sides, from Vine Street to Walnut Street.
   3.   Vine Street, in the center, from Sharp Street to First Street.
   4.   Vine Street, on the east side, from Sharp Street to a point 150 feet
south of Sharp Street.
   5.   Vine Street, on both sides, from Sharp Street to Second Street.
   6.   Walnut Street, on both sides, from Sharp Street to First Street.
   7.   Walnut Street, on both sides, with parallel parking in the center from
Sharp Street to First Street.
69.04 MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked
for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an
angle to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as
indicated by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load
thereon, when said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall
extend into the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right
angles to the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 48 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
   3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
   4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a
duly established marketplace or when so authorized or licensed under this Code
69.06 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(5))
   2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(1))
   5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(2))
   6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(3))
   7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(4))
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(6))
   9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(8))
   10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(9))
   11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(10))
   12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(11))
   13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(13))
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes, and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Public Alleys. In any public alley
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358(15))
   17.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07 PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
   The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of
persons with disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4(2))
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2(1)(b) of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A(1) of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A(1) of the Code of Iowa.
69.08 NO PARKING ZONES.
   No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any of the following
specifically designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace
officer or traffic control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   1.   Main Street, on both sides, from Iowa Street to east corporate limits.
   2.   Lacey Street, on both sides, from Iowa Street to the railroad
underpass.
   3.   Lacey Street, on the west side, from Main Street to a point 750 feet
north of Main Street.
   4.   Lacey Street, on the east side, from Main Street to a point 600 feet
north of Main Street.
   5.   Lacey Street, on the east side, from Main Street to Camp Road.
   6.   Lacey Street, on the west side, from Main Street to Camp Road.
   7.   Tenth Street, on the south side, from Vine Street to a point 225 feet
east of East Florence Avenue.
   8.   Louise Avenue, on the south side and east side, from East Florence
Avenue to the dead end including the cul-de-sac and on Louise Avenue, on the
north and west side, from a point 213 feet east of East Florence Avenue to a
point 458 feet east/northeast of East Florence Avenue.
   9.   Camp Road, on both sides, from Lacey Street to Main Street.
   10.   Buckner Drive, on both sides, from Camp Road to Independence Street.
   11.   Independence Street, on both sides, from Buckner Drive to Lacey
Street.
   12.   Iowa Street, on both sides, from Lacey Street to Main Street.
   13.   Central Street, on both sides, from Main Street to Lacey Street.
   14.   Center Street, on the north side, from Walnut Street to the cul-de-
sac.
   15.   West Florence Avenue, on the north side, from Walnut Street to Owen
Avenue.
   16.   West Florence Avenue, on the south side, from Walnut Street to a point
40 feet east of Walnut Street.
   17.   West Florence Avenue, on the northeast side, from the southern to the
northern intersection of West Florence Avenue to Walnut Street.
   18.   Fairview Drive, on the south side, from Linn Street to the County
Road.
   19.   Fairview Drive, on the north side, from Hillway Drive to the County
Road.
   20.   Fairview Drive, on the north side, from Valleyway to a point 120 feet
west of Valleyway.
   21.   Fairview Drive, on the north side, from a point 350 feet east of Linn
Street to a point 250 feet southwest of Timber Lane.
   22.   Ridgeway Drive, on the north side, from Valleyway Drive to Hillway
Drive.
   23.   Valleyway Drive, on the west side, from Fairview Drive to Timber Lane.
   24.   Hillway Drive, on the south side, from Valleyway Drive, east to the
curve and on the west from the curve to Fairview Drive.
   25.   Hillway Drive, on the east side, from Fairview Drive to a point 50
feet north.
   26.   Timber Lane, on the west side, from Fairview Drive to its intersection
with Sivers Road.
   27.   Crossway Street, from Valleyway to Timber Lane.
   28.   Second Street, on the north side, from Grove Street to Myrtle Street.
   29.   Hazel Street, from Locust Street to Arnold Street.
   30.   Hazel Street, on the east side, from Arnold Street to Coolidge Street.
   31.   Hazel Street, on the west side, from Coolidge Street to Second Street.
   32.   Hazel Street, on the east side, from Second Street to Fifth Street.
   33.   Hazel Street, from Fifth Street to a point 275 feet north of Fifth
Street.
   34.   Hazel Street, on the east side, from Sharp Street to a point 30 feet
south.
   35.   Third Street, from Elm Street to Grove Street.
   36.   Third Street, on the north side, from Locust Street to Walnut Street.
   37.   Fourth Street, on the south side, from the west corporate line to
Sivers Road.
   38.   Fifth Street, on the north side, from Elm Street to Locust Street.
   39.   Sixth Street, on the south side, from Elm Street to Grove Street.
   40.   Sixth Street, on the south side, from Locust Street to Walnut Street.
   41.   Sixth Street, from Vine Street to Chestnut Street.
   42.   Sixth Street, on the north side, from Vine Street to a point 50 feet
west.
   43.   Ninth Street, on the north side, from Walnut Street to Vine Street.
   44.   Tenth Street, on the north side, from Vine Street to Linn Street.
   45.   Eleventh Street, on the north side, from Linn Street to Timber Lane.
   46.   First Street, on the south side, from Elm Street to Park Avenue.
   47.   First Street, from Elm Street to Grove Street.
   48.   First Street, on the south side, from Grove Street to Myrtle Street.
   49.   First Street, on the south side, from Hazel Street to Locust Street.
   50.   First Street, on the south side, from Chestnut Street to Linn Street.
   51.   First Street, on the north side, from Vine Street to Chestnut Street.
   52.   Sharp Street, from the west City limits to Locust Street.
   53.   Sharp Street, from Vine Street to the east City limits.
   54.   Coolidge Street, on the north side, from Elm Street to Locust Street.
   55.   Coolidge Street, from Locust Street to Vine Street.
   56.   Tyson Street, on the north side, from Hazel Street to Locust Street.
   57.   Tyson Street, from Vine Street to Chestnut Street.
   58.   Nuckolls Street, on the north side, from Grove Street to Hazel Street.
   59.   Nuckolls Street, on the south side, of Locust Street to a point 150
feet west.
   60.   Townsend Street, on the south side, from Bowman Avenue to Locust
Street.
   61.   Arnold Street, on the north side, from Bowman Avenue to Locust Street.
   62.   Ebaugh Street, on the east side, from South Locust Street to Arnold
Street.
   63.   Park Avenue, on the west side, from Sharp Street to First Street.
   64.   Elm Street, from Coolidge Street to Sixth Street.
   65.   Grove Street, on the east side, from Townsend Street to Green Street.
   66.   Grove Street, on the east side, from Coolidge Street to Sharp Street.
   67.   Grove Street, on the west side, from Sharp Street to a point 60 feet
south.
   68.   Grove Street, from First Street to Second Street.
   69.   Grove Street, on the east side, from Second Street to Third Street,
and on the west side, from Third Street to a point 200 feet south.
   70.   Grove Street, from Fifth Street to Sixth Street.
   71.   Myrtle Street, on the east side, from Sharp Street to a point 250 feet
north of Fifth Street.
   72.   Locust Street, from the south corporate limits to the north corporate
limits.
   73.   Walnut Street, on the east side, from Tyson Street to Sharp Street.
   74.   Walnut Street, from Second Street to the north intersection of West
Florence and continuing north on the east side to the circle.
   75.   Vine Street, from Iowa Street to Coolidge Street.
   76.   Vine Street, from Fourth Street to Tenth Street.
   77.   Chestnut Street, on the east side, from Arnold Street to Sharp Street.
   78.   Linn Street, on the west side, from Sharp Street to First Street.
   79.   Linn Street, on the east side, from Sharp Street to the City limits
   80.   Linn Street, on the west side, from Fourth Street to the north
corporate limits.
   81.   Sivers Road from Sharp Street to the City limits.
   82.   Indian Hills, from Lacey Street to the west corporate limits.
   83.   Glenbrook Drive, on the west side, from Sixth Street to a point 170
feet north of Hillcrest Avenue.
   84.   Glenbrook Drive, on the east side, from Pinehurst Circle to Terrace
Circle, and on the north side from Terrace Circle to the turn and, on the west
side, from the turn to Valley Street
   85.   Glenbrook Drive, on the west side, from a point 140 feet south of
Woodlawn Avenue to a point 310 feet south of Woodlawn Avenue.
   86.   Hillcrest Avenue, on the north and on the east sides, from Glenbrook
Drive to the dead end.
   87.   Hillcrest Avenue, on the west side, from a point 200 feet north of
Glenbrook Drive to a point 350 feet north of Glenbrook Drive.
   88.   Valley Street, on the southwest side, from Glenbrook Drive including
the cul-de-sac to a point 180 feet northwest of Birch Street.
   89.   Valley Street, on the north side, from Glenbrook Drive to a point 160
feet west
   90.   Elmwood Circle, from Valley Street to the cul-de-sac.
   91.   Pinehurst Circle, from Glenbrook Drive to the cul-de-sac.
   92.   Terrace Circle, from Glenbrook Drive to the cul-de-sac.
   93.   Second Street, on the north side, from Linn Street to Chestnut Street.
   94.   Sixth Street, from Elm Street west to center of Section 11, Township
72, Range 43 West of the 5th PM.
   95.   Linn Street, from Fourth Street north to the north City limits.
   96.   Linn Street, on the west side, from Fourth Street south a distance of
90 feet from the corner thereof.
   97.   Townsend Street, on the south side, between Chestnut Street and Linn
Street.
   98.   Walnut Street, on the east side, from Nuckolls Street to Townsend
Street.
   99.   Woodlawn Avenue, on the east side, between U.S. Highway 275 and
Glenbrook Drive.
   100.   Tyson Street, on both sides, from west right-of-way on Hazel Street
West approximately 160 feet to east line of Section 14-72-43.
   101.   Hazel Street, on the west side, from Fifth Street to a point 60 feet
south of the south curb line of Fifth Street.
   102.   Bowman Avenue, on both sides, from Arnold Street South to the dead
end.
   103.   Valleyway Street, on the east side, from Hillway Street to a point 50
feet north of the north curb line of Hillway Street.
   104.   Ebaugh Street, on the east side, from the City limits to Arnold
Street.
   105.   Parking on the west side of Myrtle Street shall be allowed only from
the intersection of Myrtle Street and Sharp Street, north to the intersection
of Myrtle Street and First Street. No parking shall be allowed on the east side
of Myrtle Street between the intersection of Myrtle Street and Sharp Street and
the intersection of Myrtle Street and First Street.
   106.   On Myrtle Street from the intersection of First Street and Myrtle
Street north to the intersection of Myrtle Street and Fourth Street; provided,
however, that off-street parking shall be allowed on the east side of Myrtle
Street between First Street and Fourth Street with the exception of the 183
feet directly south of Fourth Street.
   107.   Between the signs on the curve on the east side of Glenbrook Drive
from 176 feet north of Birch Street to 473 feet north of Birch Street.
   108.   Shamrock Circle, on the west side, from Valley Street to a point 357
feet south.
   109.   Third Street, from the south side, from Hazel Street to Locust
Street.
   110.   Linn Street, from 140 feet north of First Street on the west side.
   111.   Fourth Street, on both sides, from 276 feet west of Elm Street.
   112.   Coolidge Street, on the south side, from Vine Street and Chestnut
Street.
   113.   Sports Complex Road, on the inside shoulder, commencing from the east
entrance.
   114.   Walnut Street, on the west side, from First Street to a point 45 feet
north.
   115.   First Street, on the north side, between Locust Street and Walnut
Street from alley to a point 29 feet east of alley
   116.   First Street, on the south side, between Locust Street and Walnut
Street from alley to a point 12 feet west of alley.
   117.   Second Street, on the north side, from Hazel Street to a point 180
feet west.
   118.   South Hazel Street, on the west side, between Townsend Street and
Arnold Street.
   119.   Tyson Street, on south side, from Vine Street to Chestnut Street.
   120.   Eleventh Street, on both sides, from North Linn Street to Timber
Lane.
   121.   Glenbrook Drive, on the west side, from Woodlawn Avenue to a point 60
feet south.
   122.   Third Street, on the north side, from Chestnut Street and Vine
Street.
   123.   Tenth Street, on both sides, from East Florence West to Vine Street.
   124.   Second Street, on the north side, from Locust Street to Hazel Street.
   125.   Birch Street, on the north/northwest side, from Glenbrook Drive to
Valley Street.
   126.   Birch Street, on the south side, starting at a point 178 feet east
from Glenbrook Drive and going 348 feet from Glenbrook Drive.
   127.   Birch Street, on the south side, from Glenbrook Drive to a point
seventy feet west.
   128.   Birch Street, on the south side, from Valley Street to a point 70
feet east.
   129.   Fifth Street, on the south side, from 110 feet west of Locust Street
to Locust Street.
   130.   First Street, on the south side, from Park Avenue west 400 feet to
the end of the public right-of-way.
   131.   East Florence Avenue, on the south side of the curve, from 155 feet
west of Owen Avenue proceeding northwesterly then southerly for a total of 265
feet.
   132.   Fourth Street, on the north side, from Elm Street west to the
corporate line.
   133.   Chestnut Street, on the west side, from Fourth Street to Sixth
Street.
   134.   Grove Street, on the east side, from Green Street north to Coolidge
Street.
   135.   Green Street, on both sides, from Grove Street west to the City’s
west corporate line.
   136.   Hickory Ridge Drive, on the west side, including the cul-de-sac.
   137.   Hickory Ridge Drive, on the east side, from Hilman Road and
continuing southeast for 600 consecutive feet.
   138.   Hickory Ridge Lane, on the south side.
   139.   Industrial Road, on both sides, from Railroad Avenue for 430 feet
east, including the cul-de-sac.
   140.   Sixth Street, on the north side, from Grove Street to a point 50 feet
west.
   141.   Fourth Street, on the north side, from Elm Street to a point 35 feet
east.
   142.   Marian Avenue, on the south side, from Red Bud Avenue to the
corporate line.
   143.   Coolidge Street, on the south side, from Locust Street to Elm Street,
no parking one half hour before the start of and one half hour after the start
of school.
   144.   Grove Street, on the west side, from 175 feet south of Sharp Street.
   145.   Green Street , on the south side, from Chestnut Street east to the
corporate limits.
   146.   Lacey Street, on the east side, between Nuckolls Street and Chestnut
Street.
   147.   Ebaugh Street, on the west side, from Arnold Street to a point 210
feet south.
   148.   The west side of Maplewood Circle.   
(Subsection 148 – Ord. 938 – Jul. 26 Supp.)
   149.   The north side of Linn Court.   
(Subsection 149 – Ord. 938 – Jul. 26 Supp.)
69.09 OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   1.   Except as otherwise provided herein, no person shall park a vehicle on
any of the following named streets for a period longer than 30 minutes between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day: First Street from Locust
Street to Vine Street; Sharp Street from Locust Street to Vine Street; Walnut
Street from Second Street to Coolidge Street; and Vine Street from First Street
to Sharp Street.
   2.   Except during snow emergencies when no vehicles shall be parked on the
above-named referenced streets, overnight parking shall be allowed as follows:
On the south side of Sharp Street from Walnut Street to the alley located
immediately west of Walnut Street; on the east side of Walnut Street from Sharp
Street to the alley located immediately north of First Street; and on the west
side of Vine Street from First Street to Sharp Street.
   3.   The prohibitions provided in this section shall not apply to physicians
or other persons on emergency call.
69.10 TRUCK PARKING LIMITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle, other than a light
delivery truck, panel delivery truck, pickup, or passenger automobile as
defined by the Code of Iowa, on any street or public alley within the City
other than in areas zoned for light manufacturing, heavy manufacturing, general
business zone, or heavy general business zone unless, at the time said vehicle
is so parked, personal property is being loaded onto or is being unloaded from
said truck.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
69.11 PARKING LIMITED TO ONE HOUR.
   It is unlawful to park any vehicle for a continuous period of more than one
hour between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any day except Sunday upon
the following designated streets.
   1.   Vine Street, on the east side, from 83 feet south of Second Street to
206 feet north of First Street.
69.12 PARKING LIMITED TO TWO HOURS.
   It is unlawful to park any vehicle for a continuous period of more than two
hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on each day except Sunday
upon the following designated streets:
   1.   Sharp Street, from Locust Street to Vine Street.
   2.   Vine Street, from First Street to Sharp Street.
   3.   First Street, on the north side, from Locust Street to Vine Street.
   4.   First Street, on the south side, from Locust Street to Walnut Street.
   5.   First Street, on the south side, from Walnut Street to Vine Street.
   6.   Walnut Street, on the west side, from Sharp Street 250 feet south.
69.13 PARKING LIMITED TO TEN MINUTES.
   Except for Saturdays and Sundays, it is unlawful to park any vehicle for a
continuous period of more than 10 minutes between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 4:
30 p.m. on each day, upon the following designated streets and public parking
areas:
   1.   Vine Street, on the east side, from Sharp Street to the Post Office
drive.
69.14 PARKING LIMITED.
   No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following
specifically designated no parking zones, except during time periods other than
the periods posted, or when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the direction of a peace officer or traffic control signal.
   1.   Fourth Street, on the north side, from Locust Street to Sivers Road,
from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
   2.   Vine Street, on the east side, from the school property line at the
south end to East Florence Avenue from 25 minutes to the commencement of the
school first period class and from 15 minutes prior to the end of the school
last period class to 10 minutes after the end of the last school period on all
school days; provided, however, that any standing or parking of a vehicle shall
be strictly prohibited, as the exceptions outlined in this subsection shall be
limited to the stopping of a vehicle for the sole purpose of loading and
unloading children for transportation.
   3.   Ninth Street, on the north side, from 7:50 a.m. to 8:15 a.m. and 2:45
p.m. to 3:10 p.m. on all school days.
   4.   Sharp Street, on the south side, from the intersection of Grove Street
and Myrtle Street, from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. on
all school days.
   5.   Linn Street, on the west side, from the intersection of First Street to
Fourth Street, from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.
69.15 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   1.   When predictions or occurrences indicate the need, the Mayor may
proclaim a snow emergency and the Police Chief shall inform the news media to
publicize the proclamation. Such emergency may be extended or shortened when
conditions warrant. Such a ban shall be of uniform application and the Police
Chief is directed to publicize the requirements, using all available news
media.
   2.   No person shall park, abandon or leave unattended any vehicle on any
public street or City-owned parking lot, other than designated overnight
parking areas, during any snow emergency proclaimed by the Mayor. The snow
emergency parking ban shall continue from its proclamation through the duration
of the snow or ice storm and the 24-hour period after cessation of such, or
until the snow is plowed or removed from such areas, whichever occurs sooner.
   3.   Whenever any motor vehicle without driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this section, the officer
finding such vehicle shall made a reasonable effort to notify the party who can
move the vehicle and, not succeeding, shall have the authority to have such
vehicle towed at the owner’s expense.
69.16 FIRE LANES.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a fire lane as provided
herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236)
   1.   Fire Lanes Established. The Fire Chief may designate fire lanes on any
private road or driveway where deemed necessary to assure access to property or
premises by authorized emergency vehicles.
   2.   Signs and Markings. Wherever a fire lane has been designated, the
Police Chief shall cause appropriate signs and markings to be placed
identifying such fire lanes and the parking prohibition established by this
section.
   3.   Exception. The provisions of this section do not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
69.17 CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
   Parking restrictions on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 140.
69.18 GLENWOOD LIBRARY PARKING.
   It is unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in the Glenwood Library
parking lot situated on the east side of the Glenwood Library, located at 109
North Vine Street, unless such person utilizes the parking lot for the purpose
of concurrently patronizing the Glenwood Library or to work or volunteer at the
Glenwood Library.
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01 ARREST OR CITATION.
   Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
   2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
70.02 SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
   For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of
the Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of
those violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03 PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
   Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code shall be
charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the office of the Clerk. The
fine for each violation charged under a simple notice of a fine shall be in the
amount of $10.00 for all violations except improper use of a persons with
disabilities parking permit. If such fine is not paid within 30 days, it shall
be increased by $5.00. The fine for improper use of a persons with disabilities
parking permit is $100.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1)(b) and 321L.4(2))
70.04 PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
   When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code,
and the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein
provided shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
   1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
   2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   1.   A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed,
a vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
      A.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
      B.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is
so illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
      C.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban
on parking during snow removal operations.
      D.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for
a continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can
be located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(1))
   2.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.
CHAPTER 75
ATVS, UTVS, AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                  75.05 Operation of ATVs and UTVs
75.02 Definitions              75.06 Negligence
75.03 General Regulations      75.07 Accident Reports
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles  
 
75.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles, off-road utility vehicles, and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” or “UTV” means a motorized vehicle, with not
less than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks,
that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled
by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” or “UTV” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than
Type 1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of
65 inches or less.
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or
both.
An operator of an UTV is also subject to the provisions of this chapter
governing the operation of ATVs.
   4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000
pounds, that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a
width of 48 inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and
is designed for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-
terrain vehicle that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type
tracks, or treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle, or off-road utility
vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G and Ch. 321I)
75.04 OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets that have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9(4)(a))
   2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:
      A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9(4)(c))
      B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
         (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9(2))
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13(1)(h))
   4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9(4)(f))
   5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
   6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05 OPERATION OF ATVS AND UTVS.
   The operators of ATVs and UTVs shall comply with the following restrictions
as to where ATVs and UTVs may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. ATVs and UTVs may be operated on roadways or highways in
accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa. A City may regulate the
operation of registered ATVs and UTVs and may designate streets under the
jurisdiction of the City within its corporate limits, and two-lane primary and
secondary road extensions in the City, which may be used for the operation of
such vehicles. In designating such streets, the City may authorize ATVs and
UTVs to stop at service stations or convenience stores along a designated
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10(1) and (3))
   2.   Trails. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except
where designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10(4))
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way unless being done so by a railroad employee for
work purposes. An ATV or UTV may be driven directly across a railroad right-of-
way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other provisions of
law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the established crossing
after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14(1)(h))
   4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.
   5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated upon the
public sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and
the sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
   6.   An ATV shall not be parked upon any City sidewalk.
   7.   Direct Crossing. An ATV or UTV may make a direct crossing of a highway
that is not part of the interstate road system provided all of the following
occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10(5))
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing.
      B.   The ATV or UTV is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
      C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
      D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
      E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway on which the
ATV or UTV is authorized to operate to a street, roadway, or highway on which
such vehicle is authorized to operate.
   8.   Operation.
      A.   Traffic Code. Any person operating an ATV or UTV shall adhere to all
traffic signs and signals, and all other traffic rules and regulations and
shall obey the orders and direction of any law enforcement officer authorized
to direct or regulate traffic or the direction of a Fire Department officer
during an emergency.
      B.   Speed. An ATV or UTV shall not be operated at a speed in excess of
35 miles per hour or the posted speed limit, whichever is less.
      C.   Equipment. An ATV or UTV operated upon streets within the shall be
operably equipped with the following:
         (1)   Slow moving vehicle sign;
         (2)   A bicycle safety flag, the top of which shall be a minimum of 5
feet from ground level;
         (3)   Adequate brakes;
         (4)   Headlights;
         (5)   Taillights;
         (6)   Brake lights.
      D.   Riders. A person operating an ATV or UTV shall not ride other than
on a permanent seat which is designed to be a part of the ATV or UTV and
permanently attached thereto. No person operating an ATV or UTV upon a public
street or alley shall allow a passenger on the ATV or UTV who has not yet
obtained the age of 14 years. An ATV or UTV shall not be used to carry more
persons at one time than the actual number for which it is designed and
equipped.
      E.   Financial Responsibility Required. The owner/operator of every ATV
or UTV being operated upon the streets and alleys of the City shall have in
effect liability insurance covering operation of the ATV or UTV in the
identical limits required of automobiles by the financial responsibility
provisions of Section 321A, Code of Iowa, and carry proof of liability with the
vehicle during operation.
75.06 NEGLIGENCE.
   The owner and operator of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile are liable for any
injury or damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV, UTV, or
snowmobile. The owner of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile shall be liable for any
such injury or damage only if the owner was the operator of the ATV, UTV, or
snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the
owner’s consent to operate the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the time the injury
or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 and 321I.19)
75.07 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   Whenever an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in
injury or death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more,
either the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify
a law enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 and 321I.11)
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Improper Riding
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Parking
76.05 Speed                           76.12 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Emerging From Alley or Driveway 76.13 Special Penalty
76.07 Carrying Articles                
 
76.01 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street
or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
76.02 TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to those provisions that by their nature can have no
application. Whenever such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be
subject to all regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03 DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234(3) and (4))
76.04 TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
76.05 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
76.06 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
76.07 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
that prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
76.08 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
   1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the Business District, as defined in Section
60.02(1).
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
   2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
   3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236(10))
76.09 TOWING.
   It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any
other vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured
for such use.
76.10 IMPROPER RIDING.
   No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
E   very person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
   1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a
distance of at least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except
that a red reflector on the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
   2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13 SPECIAL PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City for not less
than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second offense, and 30 days
for a third offense.
CHAPTER 77
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SCOOTERS
 
77.01 Definitions          77.05 Staying to Right
77.02 Operation Prohibited 77.06 Nighttime Use
77.03 Use of Sidewalks     77.07 Special Penalty
77.04 Traffic Code Applies 77.08 Scheduled Violation
 
77.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Skateboard” means a foot, motor or wind propelled vehicle consisting
of a board equipped with two or more wheels, tandem and guided by the user or
rider, standing on the same and pushing the same with foot power or operating
with motor or wind power.
   2.   “Roller skates” means skates with wheels instead of runners.
   3.   “Scooter” means a vehicle consisting of a narrow foot board mounted on
two wheels tandem, and guided by a handle attached to front wheel, which the
operator stands with one foot on the foot board and pushes with the other.
77.02 OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   Skateboards, roller skates, and scooters are prohibited from public parks,
and from streets and sidewalks within the corporate limits listed as follows:
   1.   Upon the streets and sidewalks of any Business District.
   2.   Upon the following streets:
      A.   Walnut Street.
      B.   Vine Street.
      C.   Sharp Street.
      D.   Locust Street.
      E.   Elm Street.
      F.   Fourth Street.
      G.   Third Street.
   3.   The following streets on the grounds of the Glenwood State Hospital
School identified as follows:
      A.   Iowa Street.
      B.   Main Street.
      C.   Orchard Drive.
      D.   Lacey Street.
      E.   Central Street.
      F.   Camp Road.
      G.   Bockner Drive.
      H.   Independence Street.
      I.   Indian Hills Drive.
77.03 USE OF SIDEWALKS.
   A person using a skateboard, roller skates, or scooter upon a sidewalk,
where such use is not prohibited, shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian, and shall give an audible signal before overtaking and passing such
pedestrian.
77.04 TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
   Every person operating a skateboard, roller skates, or scooter upon a
roadway shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of the State,
declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by the traffic code of
the City, applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to those provisions
which by their nature can have no application.
77.05 STAYING TO RIGHT.
   Every person operating a skateboard, roller skates, or scooter upon the
public roads shall stay as near as practicable to the right inside of the
roadway, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or other vehicles
proceeding in the same direction.
77.06 NIGHTTIME USE.
   No person shall operate a skateboard, roller skates, or scooter upon a
public highway within the City at any time from sunset to sunrise or at such
other times when conditions such as fog, snow, sleet, or rain provide
insufficient lighting to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the
highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead.
77.07 SPECIAL PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
standard penalty provided for violations of the Code, allow the person’s
skateboard, roller skates, or scooter to be impounded by the City for not less
than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second offense, and 30 days
for a third offense.
77.08 SCHEDULED VIOLATION.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be assessed a
municipal infraction penalty of $25.00 for a first offense, $50.00 for a second
offense, and $100.00 for a third and subsequent offenses.
CHAPTER 78
GOLF CARTS
 
78.01 Purpose                                       78.04 Operation
78.02 Operations of Golf Carts Permitted            78.05 Motor Vehicle Law
78.03 Prohibited Streets and Other Restricted Areas 78.06 Golf Cart Insurance
of Operation
                                                   78.07 Violation and Penalty
 
78.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts on
certain streets in the City as authorized by Section 321.247 of the Code of
Iowa, as amended. This chapter shall be applicable whenever a golf cart is
operated on any street or alley, within the City as provided in this chapter.
78.02 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS PERMITTED.
   Golf carts may be operated upon the streets of the City, by people
possessing a valid driver’s license and at least 16 years of age, or 14 years
of age possessing a valid license permit with a licensed driver over the age of
21, except as otherwise prohibited by this chapter or the Code of Iowa.
78.03 PROHIBITED STREETS AND OTHER RESTRICTED AREAS OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts shall not be operated upon a City street which is a primary road
extension through the City. Primary road extensions are those streets that are
also a State highway. Golf carts are also prohibited from traveling on the
following streets within the City, except to access an allowed street:
   1.   Sharp Street.
   2.   Locust Street.
78.04 OPERATION.
   1.   Traffic Code. Any person operating a golf cart, including those for
which a Golf Cart Permit has been issued, shall adhere to all traffic signs and
signals, and all other traffic rules and regulations and shall obey the orders
and directions of any police officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic
or the direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire. Operators should
use hand signals when turning.
   2.   Speed. No golf cart shall be operated at a speed in excess of the
lesser of 25 MPH or a posted speed limit, nor shall any golf cart be operated
at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper for the existing conditions.
   3.   Trails. Golf carts shall not be operated on any recreational, bike, or
walking trails, unless the trail is specifically designed to allow use of motor
vehicles.
   4.   Sidewalks. Golf carts shall not be operated upon sidewalks.
   5.   Parking. Golf carts shall not be operated upon that portion of a street
right-of-way between the curb or edge of street paving and the sidewalk,
referred to as “the parking.”
   6.   Direct Crossing. Golf carts may make a direct crossing of a prohibited
street provided:
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      B.   The golf cart is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
      C.   The driver or operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming
traffic which constitutes an immediate hazard.
   7.   Parks. Golf carts shall not be operated within City parks and other
land owned by the City, unless for a special event authorized by the Council
and the operator possesses a valid Golf Cart Permit issued by the City.
   8.   Equipment. Golf carts operated upon streets within the City shall be
equipped with at least the following:
      A.   Slow moving vehicle sign;
      B.   A bicycle safety flag, the top of which shall be a minimum of five
feet from ground level;
      C.   Adequate brakes;
      D.   Headlights;
      E.   Taillights;
      F.   Brake lights.
   9.   Hours of Operation. Golf carts may be operated on City streets only
from sunrise to sunset.
   10.   School Buses. A person operating a golf cart shall pull over to the
side of the public street or alley and come to a complete stop at all such
times a Glenwood Community School District school bus is operating within 300
feet of the golf cart, and shall remain stopped until the bus is beyond the 300
foot radius of the golf cart.
   11.   Riding on Golf Carts. A person operating a golf cart shall not ride
other than on a permanent seat which is designed to be a part of the golf cart
and permanently attached thereto. No person operating a golf cart upon a public
street or alley shall allow a passenger in the golf cart who has not yet
obtained the age of eight years, except during specifically designated events
including the City’s annual homecoming, or any other event recognized by the
City. All passengers under the age of 18 years of age are required to utilize
an operable seat belt if the golf cart is equipped with one and in motion. No
golf cart shall be used to carry more people at one time than the number for
which it is designed and equipped.
   12.   Golf Cart Permits. No person shall operate a golf cart on any public
street or alley for any purpose unless the operator possesses a Golf Cart
Permit to operate a golf cart on the City streets, issued by the Police Chief
or authorized designee.
      A.   Golf cart owners may apply for a permit from the Police Chief on
forms provided by the City;
      B.   The Police Chief shall not issue a permit until the owner or
operator has provided the following:
         (1)   Evidence that the operator is at least 18 years of age and
possesses a valid driver’s license.
         (2)   Proof that the owner or operator has liability insurance
covering operation of golf carts on City streets;
      C.   The applicant for a permit to operate a golf cart on the City
streets, as a part of the application, shall verify the golf cart complies with
State law and the provisions of this chapter;
      D.   The operator of a golf cart shall prominently display the Golf Cart
Permit on a rear fender or similar component of the golf cart, and ensure it is
visible from the rear at all times;
      E.   All permits issued shall uniquely identify the name and address of
the owner or operator of the golf cart;
      F.   The fee for a Golf Cart Permit to operate a golf cart on the City
streets and alleys shall be set by resolution.
78.05 MOTOR VEHICLE LAW.
   Persons authorized to operate golf carts pursuant to this chapter shall obey
all statutes and ordinances governing the operation of motor vehicles to the
extent practically applicable.
78.06 GOLF CART INSURANCE.
   Financial responsibility required. The owner or operator of every golf cart
being operated upon the streets and alleys of the City shall have in effect
liability insurance covering operation of the golf cart in the same limits, as
required of automobiles by the financial responsibility provision of Section
321A of the Code of Iowa.
78.07 VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   1.   Any person guilty of violating the provisions herein shall be guilty of
a simple misdemeanor and revocation of the City Golf Cart Permit for a period
of two months.
   2.   Any person guilty of violating this chapter two times in a 12-month
period shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor and revocation of the City Golf
Cart Permit for a period of two years.
   3.   Any person guilty of violating this chapter three times shall be guilty
of a simple misdemeanor and permanent revocation of the City Golf Cart Permit.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                       80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of   80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                      Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                    80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Reclamation of Abandoned Vehicles 80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment               
 
80.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(1) and Sec. 321.90)
   1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
      A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than 24 hours.
      C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 24 hours.
      D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
      E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
   2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap, or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
   3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   4.   “Police authority” means the State Patrol or any law enforcement agency
of a county or city.
80.02 AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request
of any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic,
shall take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take
into custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority
may employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private
entity, equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving,
storing, or disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person
in control of private property may employ a private entity that is a garage
keeper to dispose of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into
custody the abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a
police authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the
police authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses
of the registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(2))
80.03 NOTICE BY MAIL.
   1.   A police authority or private entity that takes into custody an
abandoned vehicle shall send notice by certified mail that the vehicle has been
taken into custody, no more than 20 days after taking custody of the vehicle.
Notice shall be sent to the last known address of record of the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle.
   2.   Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice shall include all
of the following:
      A.   A description of the year, make, model and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle.
      B.   The location of the facility where the vehicle is being held.
      C.   Information for the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property contained therein within 10 days
after the effective date of the notice. Persons may reclaim the vehicle or
personal property upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of
the notice required pursuant to this section.
      D.   A statement that failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders, and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property.
      E.   A statement that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property
is deemed consent for the police authority or private entity to sell the
vehicle at a public auction or dispose of the vehicle to a demolisher and to
dispose of the personal property by sale or destruction.
   3.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity
without a police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the
private entity may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90
(1) of the Code of Iowa and may proceed to sell or dispose of the vehicle.
   4.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority
or by a private entity hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that
any person claiming rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who
disputes the planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police
authority or private entity, or of the assessment of fees and charges provided
by this section, may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority
to contest those matters.
   5.   If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing or exercise
their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the 10-day
reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer have
any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal
property.
   6.   A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right,
title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the
expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
   7.   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the
identities and addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders,
notice by one publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area
where the vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of
notice under Subsection 2 of this section. The published notice may contain
multiple listings of abandoned vehicles, but shall be published within the same
time requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed
notice in Subsection 2 of this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(3))
80.04 RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   Prior to driving an abandoned vehicle away from the premises, a person who
received (or who is reclaiming the vehicle on behalf of a person who received)
notice under Section
80.03 shall present to the police authority or private entity, as applicable,
the person’s valid driver’s license and proof of financial liability coverage
as provided in Section 321.20B of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(3)(a))
80.05 FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(3)(a))
80.06 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the
police authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or
not the motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall
dispose of the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(4))
80.07 DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found
any abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle
whose title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such
motor vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without
notification procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
The police authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The
applicant shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate
and shall surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of
title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90(2)(e))
80.08 PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
   Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the
expense of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification
required, in accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner
of the motor vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days and then shall be
deposited in the State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails
to realize the amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply
for reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89(4))
80.09 DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
   Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor
vehicle for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish
such motor vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or
demolish a vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate
issued for the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90(3)(a))
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 UTILITIES BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The management of the City’s Water Utility is the responsibility of the
Utilities Board of Trustees, established and operated as described in
Chapter 25.
CHAPTER 91
PRIVATE WELLS WITHIN THE CITY
 
91.01 Scope                    91.06 Registration of Pre-existing Wells
91.02 Private Wells Prohibited 91.07 Abandoned Wells and Wells Located in
                               Contaminated Areas
91.03 Private Wells Permitted  91.08 Penalty
91.04 Permit Required           
91.05 Permit Fee                
 
91.01 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to drinking (potable) and non-
drinking (non-potable) private wells located within the City limits. This
chapter shall not apply to test or monitoring wells used for soil and
groundwater investigation.
91.02 PRIVATE WELLS PROHIBITED.
No person shall construct a private well within the City unless permitted by
Section
91.03.
91.03 PRIVATE WELLS PERMITTED.
   A potable private well may be constructed within the corporate limits in the
event there is no public water supply within 1,000 feet of any property line of
the property upon which the well is to be located. Such well shall remain
separate from any public water supply. Such well shall not be constructed in an
area the City considers to be contaminated or otherwise unsuitable for a
private well. A non-potable private well may be constructed within the
corporate limits solely for the purpose of irrigation. Such well shall not be
utilized to obtain water for drinking or other purposes. Such well shall be
located at least 500 feet from the public water supply and shall remain
separate from any public water supply. Any non-potable private well to be
located in a City-owned park may, upon approval of the Council, be released
from the 500-foot requirement. No well shall be constructed in an area the City
considers to be contaminated or otherwise unsuitable for a private well.
91.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct a private well unless the person obtains a permit
from the City.
   1.   Any person wanting a Potable Private Well Pshall make application to
the City on the prescribed form. Prior to the issuance of the permit, a
representative of the Municipal Utilities Board shall inspect the proposed
location to ensure the potable well is at least 1,000 feet from the public
water supply. The City’s permit shall be in addition to any permit required by
the County or State.
   2.   Any person wanting a Non-Potable Private Well Permit shall make
application to the City on the prescribed form. Prior to the issuance of the
permit, a representative of the Municipal Utilities Board shall inspect the
proposed location to ensure the non-potable well is at least 500 feet from the
public water supply. The City’s permit shall be in addition to any permit
required by the County or State.
91.05 PERMIT FEE.
   There shall be a permit fee set by the City in the amount of $50.00. A
person applying for a permit shall pay the fee upon submission of the
application. The applicant shall be responsible for any additional expenses
associated with the private well.
91.06 REGISTRATION OF PRE-EXISTING WELLS.
   A person owning property in the City that contains a well constructed prior
to the effective date of the ordinance codified by this chapter, shall register
the well with the City. Any property owner registering a pre-existing well
shall obtain a registration form from the City. The property owner shall
provide all information requested by the City, but not limited to the
following:
   1.   Exact location;
   2.   Well history;
   3.   Separation from public water supply; and
   4.   Vulnerability status.
   There shall be no fee to register a pre-existing well.
91.07 ABANDONED WELLS AND WELLS LOCATED IN CONTAMINATED AREAS.
   1.   A pre-existing well located within what the City considers a
contaminated area shall be required to be plugged and sealed in accordance with
the Department of Natural Resources regulations.
   2.   Any abandoned well located within the City shall be required to be
plugged and sealed in accordance with the Department of Natural Resources
regulations.
91.08 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of a violation of any provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to the penalty provisions applicable. Each day that a
violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation. At the discretion of the City Attorney, any violation of the
provisions of this chapter may be pursued.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
95.01 UTILITIES BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The management of the City’s Sanitary Sewer System is the responsibility of
the Utilities Board of Trustees, established and operated as described in
Chapter 25.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Definitions                      105.08 Health and Fire Hazard
105.02 Prohibition Against Hauling      105.09 Littering Prohibited
Solid Waste Without License
105.03 Disposal Limited                 105.10 Landfill Maintenance Fee
105.04 Disposal Instructions            105.11 Separation of Yard Waste
                                        Required
105.05 Hazardous and Excluded Materials 105.12 Residential Solid Waste
                                        Limitation
105.06 Incinerator Use                  105.13 Containment of Solid Waste and
                                        Garbage Required
105.07 Burning Prohibited                
 
105.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Association” means the Mills County Landfill Association.
   2.   “Garbage” means the solid or semi-solid animal and vegetable waste
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooling and serving of foods,
including cans, bottles, and cartons in which it was received, and wrappings in
which it may be placed for disposal.
   3.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361(1))
   4.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361(2))
   5.   “Residence” means any single-family dwelling and any multi-family
dwelling up to and including four separate family quarters. Garden type
apartments and row type housing units are considered residential premises
regardless of the total number of such apartments or units which may be
included in a given housing development.
   6.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities. Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of
the Code of Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
      F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A
of the Code of Iowa.
      G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
         (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
         (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing
to ensure production is not interrupted.
   7.   “Solid waste collection” means the collection, removal or hauling of
solid waste from any public or private place.
   8.   “Yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden
waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.02 PROHIBITION AGAINST HAULING SOLID WASTE WITHOUT LICENSE.
   No person shall collect, remove, or haul solid waste within the City unless
such person has been issued a current hauler’s license by the Association.
105.03 DISPOSAL LIMITED.
   No person shall permanently dispose of solid waste of any kind upon any land
within the corporation limits of the City unless such land has been designated
by the Association as a public landfill site; provided, however, that the
prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to the deposit of inert
wastes, not potentially injurious to health or the public welfare where
permission to make such a deposit has been obtained from the owner or
responsible agent, or to the filling in or grading of property with earth, mud,
ashes or similar materials, providing all other applicable local and State laws
have been complied with.
105.04 DISPOSAL INSTRUCTIONS.
   No person shall deposit any solid waste at any Association landfill site,
except in compliance with posted instructions or instructions of an attendant
in charge.
105.05 HAZARDOUS AND EXCLUDED MATERIALS.
   Certain materials may be excluded from those refuse materials, which may be
deposited at an Association landfill site. These excluded materials may include
junk automobile bodies and similar bulky objects which may require special
processing prior to disposal; trees and tree limbs, unless they have been cut
into pieces not exceeding 10 feet in length; burning materials or materials
containing hot or live coals; hazardous materials; and other materials which
the Association deems necessary to exclude. However, hazardous materials may be
deposited upon the receipt of written permission of a responsible official or
attendant of the Association and subject to any special instructions issued
with said permission. Hazardous material shall include: explosive materials,
materials contaminated by infectious or contagious disease, fly ash or other
fine or powdery material and other material which may present a special hazard
to landfill personnel, equipment or the public.
105.06 INCINERATOR USE.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale, or to install or
offer to install, any device intended for use as a garbage or solid waste
burner or incinerator.
105.07 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to burn or incinerate or permit the burning or
incineration of any solid waste. This section shall apply to all solid waste as
defined and shall specifically include all waste paper, boxes, market waste,
garden wastes, trees, tree limbs, leaves and any and all materials other than
materials used as a fuel in a furnace or boiler. This section shall not apply
to any incinerator operated under a license granted by the City or any
incinerator operated by or for the City, or any burning conducted under the
direction of the Fire Department of the City.
   1.   Exceptions. Exceptions shall include only the following:
      A.   Outdoor Cooking Fires. Outdoor cooking fires as defined: The burning
of materials where fuel being burned is contained in manufactured outdoor
fireplaces or grills used for food preparation and in accordance with this
section. A permit is not required for outdoor cooking fires. Outdoor cooking
fires shall be conducted within safe distances from buildings, structures, and
combustible materials. Fuel shall be limited to clean lumber, logs, propane,
natural gas, or charcoal.
      B.   Recreational Fires. Recreational fires are allowed in the City
without the issuance of a permit. Restrictions pertaining to recreational fires
are as follows:
         (1)   Shall be located at least 15 feet from the nearest structure or
combustible materials.
         (2)   Shall be fueled by clean, seasoned firewood, natural gas or
other clean burning fuel with emissions equal to or less than that created by
seasoned firewood. No yard waste, refuse, or materials containing rubber,
grease, asphalt, or similar smoke producing materials, treated lumber or
carcasses of dead animals may be disposed of in a recreational fire.
         (3)   Total fuel area can be no longer than three feet in diameter and
no higher than two feet. A spark screen and top shall be used at all times
during burning.
         (4)   Shall be constantly attended by an individual 18 years of age or
older until fire is extinguished.
         (5)   A means of controlling the fire, such as a fire extinguisher,
hose or bucket of water shall be available at all times during the duration of
the fire.
         (6)   No recreational fires will be allowed when winds are 15 miles
per hour or more.
   2.   Illegal Burning. From time-to-time conditions exist which may require
the County to order a County-wide ban on open burning which would prohibit open
burning in the City. Any County-wide ban on open burning shall remain in effect
until such ban is lifted by the County.
105.08 HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises,
improved or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation, or fire hazard.
105.09 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa. Sec. 455B.363)
105.10 LANDFILL MAINTENANCE FEE.
   The landfill maintenance fee may be established by resolution of the
Council. If such fee is established, it shall be payable each month and shall
be deemed delinquent if not paid within 10 days after such payment due date.
Delinquent payments shall bear a penalty of five percent plus interest at the
maximum rate permitted by law (but in no event shall the rate of interest
exceed seven percent per annum) from said due date to the date of payment.
105.11 SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
   All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other
solid waste accumulated on the premises and may be composted on the premises.
105.12 RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE LIMITATION.
   Each dwelling unit shall be allowed no more than two 33-gallon trash
containers per week. Each container shall weigh no more than 50 pounds. The
solid waste hauler shall set a reasonable fee for additional containers and
shall enforce said fee.
105.13 CONTAINMENT OF SOLID WASTE AND GARBAGE REQUIRED.
   All solid waste and garbage, including animal offal, intended to be
discarded shall be placed and stored in an enclosed solid container or
receptacle with a covered lid or top until such waste and garbage is disposed
pursuant to this chapter.
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
110.01 Franchise Granted                110.09 Force Majeure
110.02 Term                             110.10 Hold Harmless
110.03 Governing Rules and Regulations  110.11 Successors and Assigns
110.04 Provision for Inadequate Energy  110.12 No Third Party Beneficiaries
Supplies
110.05 Construction and Maintenance of  110.13 Severability
Grantee's Facilities
110.06 Extension of Company Facilities  110.14 Non Waiver
110.07 Relocation of Company Facilities 110.15 Repeal Conflicting Ordinances
110.08 Confidential Information         110.16 Effect and Interpretation of
                                        Chapter
                                       110.17 Effective Date and Acceptance
 
110.01 FRANCHISE GRANTED.
   The City of Glenwood, Iowa (hereinafter referred to as “Grantor”), hereby
grants a non-exclusive franchise to Black Hills/Iowa Gas Utility Company, LLC
d/b/a Black Hills Energy, a Delaware limited liability corporation (hereinafter
called “Grantee”), its lessees, successors and assigns. Grantee is hereby
granted the right, privilege, franchise, permission and authority to lay,
construct, install, maintain, operate and extend in, along, over, above or
across the present and future streets, alleys, avenues, bridges, public rights-
of-way and public easements as are now within the present or future limits of
said Grantor, a natural gas distribution system and all facilities necessary
for the purpose of supplying natural gas or processed gas and other operations
connected therewith or incident thereto for all purposes to the inhabitants of
said Grantor and consumers in the vicinity thereof, and for the distribution of
natural gas from or through said Grantor to points beyond the limits thereof.
Such facilities shall include, but not be limited to, all mains, services,
pipes, poles, communication devices, conduits and all other apparatus and
appliances necessary or convenient for transporting, distributing and supplying
natural gas for all purposes for which it may be used, and to do all other
things necessary and proper in providing natural gas service to the inhabitants
of Grantor and in carrying on such business.
110.02 TERM.
   The rights and privileges granted hereunder shall remain in effect for a
period of 15 years from the effective date of this chapter and for an
additional 10 years thereafter unless Grantor provides written notice as
provided herein to Grantee at least one 180 days prior to the expiration of the
initial term.† 6
 
Notes
6 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 935, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on May 27, 2025.
110.03 GOVERNING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The franchise granted hereunder is subject to all conditions, limitations
and immunities now provided for, or as hereafter amended, and applicable to the
operations of a public utility, by State or federal law. The rates to be
charged by Grantee for service within the present or future corporate limits of
Grantor and the rules and regulations regarding the character, quality and
standards of service to be furnished by Grantee, shall be under the
jurisdiction and control of such regulatory body or bodies as may, from time to
time, be vested by law with authority and jurisdiction over the rates,
regulations and quality and standards of service to be supplied by Grantee.
Provided however, should any judicial, regulatory or legislative body having
proper jurisdiction take any action that precludes Grantee from recovering from
its customers any cost associated with services provided hereunder, then
Grantee and Grantor shall renegotiate the terms of this chapter in accordance
with the action taken. In determining the rights and duties of the Grantee, the
terms of this chapter shall take precedence over any conflicting terms or
requirements contained in any other ordinance enacted by the Grantor.
110.04 PROVISION FOR INADEQUATE ENERGY SUPPLIES.
   If an energy supplier is unable to furnish an adequate supply of energy due
to an emergency, an order or decision of a public regulatory body, or other
acts beyond the control of the Grantee, then the Grantee shall have the right
and authority to adopt reasonable rules and regulations limiting, curtailing or
allocating extensions of service or supply of energy to any customers or
prospective customers, and withholding the supply of energy to new customers,
provided that such rules and regulations shall be uniform as applied to each
class of customers or prospective customers, and shall be non-discriminatory as
between communities receiving service from the Grantee.
110.05 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF GRANTEE’S FACILITIES.
   Any pavements, sidewalks or curbing taken up and any and all excavations
made shall be done in such a manner as to cause only such inconvenience to the
inhabitants of Grantor and the general public as is reasonably necessary, and
repairs and replacements shall be made promptly by Grantee, leaving such
properties in as good as condition as existed immediately prior to excavation.
   Grantee agrees that for the term of this franchise, it will use its best
efforts to maintain its facilities and equipment in a condition sufficient to
meet the current and future energy requirements of Grantor, its inhabitants and
industries. While maintaining its facilities and equipment, Grantee shall
obtain permits as required by ordinance and will fix its excavations within a
commercially reasonable time period, except that in emergency situations
Grantee shall take such immediate unilateral actions as it determines are
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, in which case,
Grantee shall notify Grantor as soon as reasonably possible. Within a
reasonable time thereafter, Grantee shall request and Grantor shall issue any
permits or authorizations required by Grantor for the actions conducted by
Grantee during the emergency situation.
   Grantor will give Grantee reasonable notice of plans for street improvements
where paving or resurfacing of a permanent nature is involved that affects
Grantee's facilities. The notice shall contain the nature and character of the
improvements, the rights-of-way upon which the improvements are to be made, the
extent of the improvements, and the time when the Grantor will start the work,
and, if more than one right-of-way is involved, the order in which the work is
to proceed. The notice shall be given to the Grantee as soon as practical in
advance of the actual commencement of the work, considering seasonable working
conditions, to permit the Grantee to make any additions, alterations, or
repairs to its facilities.
110.06 EXTENSION OF GRANTEE’S FACILITIES.
   Upon receipt and acceptance of a valid application for service, Grantee
shall, subject to its own economic feasibility criteria as approved by the Iowa
Utilities Board make reasonable extensions of its distribution facilities to
serve customers located within the current or future corporate limits of
Grantor.
110.07 RELOCATION OF GRANTEE’S FACILITIES.
   If Grantor elects to change the grade of or otherwise alter any street,
alley, avenue, bridge, public right-of-way or public place for a public
purpose, unless otherwise reimbursed by federal, State or local legislative act
or governmental agency, Grantee, upon reasonable notice from Grantor, shall
remove and relocate its facilities or equipment situated in the public rights-
of-way, at the cost and expense of Grantee, if such removal is necessary to
prevent interference with Grantor’s facilities.
   If Grantor orders or requests Grantee to relocate its facilities or
equipment for the primary benefit of a commercial or private project, or as a
result of the initial request of a commercial or private developer or other
non-public entity, and such removal is necessary to prevent interference with
such project, then Grantee shall receive payment for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocating its facilities or equipment.
   Grantor shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works
projects and exercising its authority under this section so as not to
arbitrarily cause Grantee unreasonable additional expense. If alternative
public right-of-way space is available, Grantor shall also provide a reasonable
alternative location for Grantee’s facilities. Grantor shall give Grantee
written notice of an order or request to vacate a public right-of-way;
provided, however, that its receipt of such notice shall not deprive Grantee of
its right to operate and maintain its existing facilities in such public right-
of way until it (a) if applicable, receives the reasonable cost of relocating
the same and (b) obtains a reasonable public right-of-way, dedicated utility
easement, or private easement alternative location for such facilities.
110.08 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Grantor acknowledges that certain information it might request from Grantee
pursuant to this chapter may be of a proprietary and confidential nature, and
that such requests may be subject to the Homeland Security Act or other
confidentiality protections under state or federal law. If Grantee requests
that any information provided by Grantee to Grantor be kept confidential due to
its proprietary or commercial value, Grantor and its employees, agents and
representatives shall maintain the confidentiality of such information, to the
extent allowed by law. If Grantor is requested or required by legal or
administrative process to disclose any such proprietary or confidential
information, Grantor shall promptly notify Grantee of such request or
requirement so that Grantee may seek an appropriate protective order or other
relief.
110.09 FORCE MAJEURE.
   It shall not be a breach or default under this chapter if either party fails
to perform its obligations hereunder due to force majeure. Force majeure shall
include, but not be limited to, the following: 1) physical events such as acts
of God, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, freezing, storms, floods,
washouts, explosions, breakage or accident or necessity of repairs to
machinery, equipment or distribution or transmission lines; 2) acts of others
such as strikes, work-force stoppages, riots, sabotage, insurrections or wars;
3) governmental actions such as necessity for compliance with any court order,
law, statute, ordinance, executive order, or regulation promulgated by a
governmental authority having jurisdiction; and 4) any other causes, whether of
the kind herein enumerated or otherwise not reasonably within the control of
the affected party to prevent or overcome. Each party shall make reasonable
efforts to avoid force majeure and to resolve such event as promptly as
reasonably possible once it occurs in order to resume performance of its
obligations hereunder; provided, however, that this provision shall not
obligate a party to settle any labor strike.
110.10 HOLD HARMLESS.
   Grantee, during the term of this chapter, agrees to save harmless Grantor
from and against all claims, demands, losses and expenses arising directly out
of the negligence of Grantee, its employees or agents, in constructing,
operating, and maintaining its distribution and transmission facilities or
equipment; provided, however, that Grantee need not save Granter harmless from
claims, demands, losses and expenses arising out of the negligence of Grantor,
its employees or agents.
110.11 SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.
   All rights, privileges and authority granted to Grantee hereunder shall
inure to the benefit of Grantee’s lessees, successors and assigns, subject to
the terms, provisions and conditions herein contained, and all obligations
imposed upon Grantee hereunder shall be binding upon Grantee’s lessees,
successors and assigns.
110.12 NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES.
   This chapter constitutes a franchise agreement between the Granter and
Grantee. No provision of this chapter shall inure to the benefit of any third
person, including the public at large, so as to constitute any such person as a
third party beneficiary of the agreement or of any one or more of the terms
hereof, or otherwise give rise to any cause of action for any person not a
party hereto.
110.13 SEVERABILITY.
   If any clause, sentence or section of this chapter is deemed invalid by any
judicial, regulatory or legislative body having proper jurisdiction, the
remaining provisions shall not be affected.
110.14 NON WAIVER.
   Any waiver of any obligation or default under this chapter shall not be
construed as a waiver of any future defaults, whether of like or different
character.
110.15 REPEAL CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   This chapter, when accepted by Grantee as provided below, shall constitute
the entire agreement between the Grantor and the Grantee relating to the
franchise granted by Grantor hereunder, and the same shall supersede all prior
ordinances relating thereto, and any terms and conditions of such prior
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
Ordinance No. 654 is hereby repealed as of the effective date hereof.
110.16 EFFECT AND INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER.
   The captions that precede each section of this chapter are for convenience
or reference only and shall not be taken into consideration in the
interpretation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
110.17 EFFECTIVE DATE AND ACCEPTANCE.
   This chapter shall become effective and be a binding contract between the
Grantor and Grantee upon its final passage and approval by Grantor, in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and upon Grantee’s acceptance
by written instrument, within 60 days of passage by the Council, and filing
with the Clerk. The Clerk shall sign and affix the community seal to
acknowledge receipt of such acceptance and return one copy to Grantee. If
Grantee does not, within 60 days following passage of this chapter, either
express in writing its objections to any terms or provisions contained therein,
or reject this chapter in its entirety, Grantee shall be deemed to have
accepted this chapter and all of its terms and conditions.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
111.01 Franchise Granted            111.10 Trimming Trees
111.02 Rights and Privileges        111.11 Information
111.03 Poles and Wires              111.12 Applicable Regulations
111.04 Construction and Maintenance 111.13 Franchise Fee
111.05 Excavations                  111.14 Management Fees
111.06 Utility Easements            111.15 Applicability
111.07 Relocation Not Required      111.16 Termination
111.08 Relocation Reimbursement     111.17 Effective
111.09 Indemnification               
 
111.01 FRANCHISE GRANTED.
   There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
(hereinafter called the “Company”), and its successors and assigns, the right
and non-exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate
in the City of Glenwood, Iowa, (hereinafter called the “City”), a system for
the transmission and distribution of electric energy and communications signals
along, under, over and upon the streets, avenues, rights-of-way and alleys to
serve customers within the City, and to furnish and sell electric energy to the
City and its inhabitants. The Company is granted the right to exercise of
powers of eminent domain, subject to Council approval. This franchise shall
remain in effect for a period of 15 years from the effective date of the
ordinance codified by this chapter and for an additional 10 years thereafter
unless the City provides written notice to the Company at least 180 days prior
to the expiration of the initial term.† 7
 
Notes
7 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 875, adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on March 28, 2017.
111.02 RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa 2017, or as subsequently amended
or changed.
111.03 POLES AND WIRES.
   The Company shall have the right to erect all necessary poles and to place
thereon the necessary wires, fixtures and accessories as well as to excavate
and bury conduits or conductors for the distribution of electric energy and
communication signals in and through the City, provided the same shall be
placed in accord with this franchise and City code regulations of the City,
regarding the placement of structures, facilities, accessories, or other
objects in the right-of-way, including ordinances which assign corridors or
other placements to users of the right-of-way and requirements which may be
adopted regarding separation of structures, facilities, accessories or other
objects.
111.04 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements
(whether titled in Company exclusively or in Company and other entities), in
accordance with Iowa law including Company’s Tariff on file with and made
effective by the Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be amended
(“Tariff”), at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its existing
installations located in, on, over or under the right-of-way of any public
street, right-of-way or alley in the City in such a manner as the City may
require for the purposes of facilitating the construction, reconstruction,
maintenance or repair of the street right-of-way or alley. Relocation expenses
for other hard surfaces, including pedestrian and non-motorized vehicle
pathways, will be paid by the City. If the City has a reasonable alternative
route for the street, right-of-way or alley or an alternative construction
method, which would not cause the relocation of Company installations or would
minimize the cost or expense of relocation of Company installations, the City
and Company shall work together to consider said alternative route or
construction method. The City shall, in the extension or modification of
streets and roads, make provision for the placement of Company service lines
and facilities on City-owned right-of-way without charge to Company. In
planning for the extension or modification of streets, the City shall, to the
extent practicable, design such changes to limit the need for relocation of
Company facilities. The City shall be responsible for surveying and staking the
right-of-way for City projects that require the Company to relocate Company
facilities. If requested, the City shall provide, at no cost to the Company,
copies of the relocation plan and profile and cross section drawings. If
vegetation and tree removals must be completed by the City as part of the
City’s project and are necessary whether or not utility facilities must be
relocated, the City at its own cost shall be responsible for said removals. If
the timing of vegetation and tree removals does not coincide with Company’s
facilities relocation schedule and the Company must remove vegetation and trees
that are included in the City’s portion of the project, the City shall either
remove them or reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred to remove said
materials. If project funds from a source other than the City are available to
pay for the relocation of utility facilities, the City shall use its best
efforts to secure said funds and provide them to the Company to compensate the
Company for the costs of relocation.
111.05 EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in any streets, avenues, and public places for the
installation, maintenance, or repair of conductor, conduits or the erection of
poles and wires or other appliances, the Company shall not unreasonably
obstruct the use of the streets. The Company in making such excavations shall,
if required by ordinance, obtain a City permit therefore and provide City
representatives with advance notice prior to the actual commencement of the
work, and shall comply with all provisions and requirements of the City in its
regulation of the use of City right-of-way in performing such work. In
emergencies which require immediate excavation, the Company may proceed with
the work without first applying for or obtaining the permit, provided, however,
that Company shall apply for and obtain the excavation permit as soon as
possible after commencing such emergency work. The Company shall comply with
all City ordinances regarding paving cuts, placement of facilities and
restoration of pavement and other public infrastructure. The Company shall
replace the surface, restoring the condition as existed prior to the Company’s
excavation but shall not be required to improve or modify the public right-of-
way, sidewalks, or other areas in or adjacent to the Company project to a
condition superior to its immediate previously existing condition. Company
shall complete all repairs in a timely manner. Company agrees any replacement
of road surface shall conform to current City ordinances regarding its depth
and composition.
111.06 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   The City’s vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground, or public right-
of-way shall not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain
existing facilities on, below, above, or beneath the vacated property. Prior to
the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley, or public ground
where the Company has facilities in the vicinity, the City shall provide
Company with not less than 60-days advance notice of the City’s proposed action
and, upon request grant the Company a utility easement covering existing and
future facilities and activities. If the City fails to grant the Company a
utility easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or vacating a street,
avenue, alley or public ground, the City shall, at its cost and expense, obtain
easements for the existing Company facilities.
111.07 RELOCATION NOT REQUIRED.
   The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense,
Company facilities in the public right-of-way that have been relocated at
Company expense at the direction of the City in the previous 10 years.
111.08 RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT.
   Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities, if the City orders or requests
the Company to relocate its existing facilities or equipment in order to
directly facilitate a project for the primary benefit of a commercial or
private developer or other non-public entity, the City shall require the
developer or non-public entity to reimburse the Company for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocation of its existing facilities or
equipment. The Company shall not be required at its expense to relocate in
order to facilitate such private development.
111.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The Company shall indemnify, save and hold harmless the City from any and
all claims, suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, on account of injury or
damage to any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the
Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation or
maintenance of the electric facilities authorized by this franchise; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify and save
harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent arising from the
negligence of the City, its officers, employees, or agents.
111.10 TRIMMING TREES.
   The pruning and removal of vegetation and trees shall be done in accordance
with current nationally accepted safety and utility industry standards and
federal and state law, rules, and regulations. The pruning and removal of
vegetation and trees shall be done in accordance with current nationally
accepted safety and utility industry standards and federal and state law,
rules, and regulations. The Company is authorized and empowered to prune or
remove, at Company expense, any tree extending into any street, avenue, right-
of-way, alley, public place, or public grounds to maintain electric
reliability, safety, to restore utility service and to prevent limbs, branches,
or trunks from interfering with the wires and facilities of the Company. The
pruning and removal of vegetation and trees shall be completed in accordance
with nationally accepted safety and utility standards, NSI Z133.1-2012,
American National Standard for Arboricultural Operations-Safety Requirements,
and ANSI A300(part 1) - 2008 Pruning, (Revision of ANSI A300 part 1-2001)
American National Standard for Tree, Shrub, and other Woody Plant Management -
Standard of Practices (Pruning) or subsequent revisions to these standards, and
City ordinances regarding the pruning of trees that incorporate by reference
that standard.
111.11 INFORMATION.
   Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in City right-of-way, including documents, maps,
and other information in paper or electronic or other forms (“Information”).
The Company and City recognize the Information may in whole or part be
considered a confidential record under State or federal law or both. Therefore,
City shall not release any Information without prior consent of the Company and
shall return the Information to Company upon request. City recognizes that
Company claims the Information may constitute a trade secret or is otherwise
protected from public disclosure by state or federal law on other grounds and
agrees to retain the Information in its non-public files. Furthermore, the City
agrees that no documents, maps or other Information provided to the City by the
Company shall be made available to the public or other entities if such
documents or Information are exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the
Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Critical
Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to 18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or
Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes and regulations may be amended
from time to time, then the Company shall provide the City with a written
explanation of the basis for such assertion of confidentiality or exemption
from disclosure within 10 days.
111.12 APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   The Company shall construct, operate, and maintain its facilities in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board or its
successors and Iowa law. During the term of this franchise, the Company shall
furnish electric energy in the quantity and quality consistent with and in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board, the
Company’s tariff and made effective by the Iowa Utilities Board or its
successors and State law.
111.13 FRANCHISE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed upon the customers a franchise fee of five percent
upon the gross revenues, minus uncollectible accounts, generated from sales of
electricity and distribution service by the Company within the corporate limits
of the City. The franchise fee shall be remitted by the Company to the City on
or before the last business day of the calendar quarter following the close of
the calendar quarter in which the franchise fee is charged.
   1.   The City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once
in any 24-month period.
   2.   The Company will commence collecting franchise fees on or before the
first Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following 90 days of
receipt of information required of the City to implement the franchise fee,
including the City’s documentation of customer classes subject to, or exempted
from City-imposed franchise fee.
   3.   The City shall be solely responsible for identifying customer classes
subject to or exempt from paying the City imposed franchise fee. The Company
shall have no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed
areas until and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the
annexed areas no sooner than 60 days after receiving annexation ordinances from
the City.
   4.   The Company shall not, under any circumstances, be required to return
or refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and
remitted to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers, the City shall
reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such
data or information.
111.14 MANAGEMENT FEES.
   Upon implementation of a franchise fee, the City shall not, pursuant to
Chapter 480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose or charge Company right-of-way
management fees for permits for Company construction, maintenance, repairs,
excavation, pavement cutting, or inspections of Company work sites and projects
or related matters.
111.15 APPLICABILITY.
   This franchise shall apply to and bind the City and Company and their
successors and assigns.
111.16 TERMINATION.
   Either City or Company (“party”) may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non-breaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have 60 days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the non-
breaching party, and the parties agree upon a longer period for cure. If the
breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching party may
terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in breach of
this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or federal law. A
party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the alleged
breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other party.
111.17 EFFECTIVE.
   This ordinance and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with State
law and the written acceptance by the Company. The City shall provide Company
with an original signed and sealed copy of this ordinance within 10 days of its
final passage. The Company shall, within 30 days after the Council approval of
this ordinance, file in the office of the Clerk, its acceptance in writing of
all the terms and provisions of this ordinance. Following Council approval,
this ordinance shall be published in accordance with the Code of Iowa. The
effective date of this ordinance shall be the date of publication. In the event
Company does not file its written acceptance of this ordinance within 30 days
after its approval by the Council, this ordinance shall be void and of no
effect.
CHAPTER 112
ENERGY PROVIDERS FRANCHISE FEE
 
112.01 Franchise Fee Established 112.05 Map
112.02 Exemption from Other Fees 112.06 Annexation
112.03 Payment                   112.07 Records
112.04 Billing                    
 
112.01 FRANCHISE FEE ESTABLISHED.
   The City of Glenwood, Iowa, (hereinafter referred to as the “Municipality”)
hereby establishes a franchise fee on every natural gas company and every other
person, firm, or corporation, their successors and assigns, owning, operating,
controlling, leasing, or managing a natural gas system or generating,
manufacturing, selling, distributing, or transporting natural gas (hereinafter
referred to, collectively, as “Energy Providers,” each, individually, an
“Energy Provider”). Energy providers shall collect from their customers located
within the corporate limits of the Municipality as depicted on the Map (as
defined below) including the City and pay to the City an amount equal to five
percent of gross receipts energy providers derive from the sale, distribution,
or transportation of natural gas delivered within the limits of the
Municipality. Gross receipts as used herein are revenues received from the
sale, distribution, or transportation of natural gas, after adjustment for the
net write-off of uncollectible accounts and corrections of bills theretofore
rendered.
112.02 EXEMPTION FROM OTHER FEES.
   The amount paid by energy providers shall be in lieu of, and energy
providers shall be exempt from, all other fees, charges, taxes, or assessments
which the Municipality may impose for the privilege of doing business within
the Municipality, including, without limitation, excise taxes, occupation
taxes, licensing fees, or right-of-way permit fees, and in the event the
Municipality imposes any such fee, charge, tax, or assessment, the payment to
be made by energy providers in accordance with this ordinance shall be reduced
in an amount equal to any such fee, charge, tax, or assessment imposed upon the
energy providers. Ad valorem property taxes imposed generally upon all real and
personal property within the Municipality shall not be deemed to affect energy
providers’ obligations under this ordinance.
112.03 PAYMENT.
   Energy providers shall report and pay any amount payable under this
ordinance on a monthly basis. Such payment shall be made no more than 30 days
following the close of the period for which payment is due. Initial and final
payments shall be prorated for the portions of the periods at the beginning and
end of any franchise granted by the City to an energy provider.
112.04 BILLING.
   Energy providers shall list the franchise fee collected from customers as a
separate item on bills for utility service issued to their customers. If at any
time the Iowa Utilities Board or other authority having proper jurisdiction
prohibits such recovery, energy providers will no longer be obligated to
collect and pay the franchise fee until an alternate lawful franchise fee can
be negotiated and implemented. In addition, with prior approval of City, energy
providers may reduce the franchise fee payable for natural gas delivered to a
specific customer when such reduction is required to attract or retain the
business of that customer.
112.05 MAP.
   Within 10 days of the date of this ordinance, the Municipality shall provide
the energy providers with a map of its corporate limits (the “Map”). The Map
shall be of sufficient detail to assist energy providers in determining whether
their customers reside within the Municipality’s corporate limits. The Map,
along with energy provider’s Geographic Information System (“GIS”) mapping
information, shall serve as the sole basis for determining energy provider’s
obligation hereunder to collect and pay the franchise fee from customers;
provided, however, that if the Municipality’s corporate limits are changed by
annexation or otherwise, it shall be the Municipality’s sole responsibility to
(a) update the Map so that such changes are included therein, and (b) provide
the updated Map to the energy providers. An energy provider’s obligation to
collect and pay the franchise fee from customers within an annexed area shall
not commence until the later: (a) of 60 days after such energy provider’s
receipt from the Municipality of an updated Map including such annexed area, or
(b) such time after such energy provider’s receipt from the Municipality of an
updated Map including such annexed area as is reasonably necessary for such
energy provider to identify the customers in the annexed area obligated to pay
the franchise fee.
112.06 ANNEXATION.
   The City shall provide copies of annexation ordinances to energy providers
on a timely basis to ensure appropriate franchise fee collection from customers
within the corporate limits of the City as set forth in Section
112.04.
112.07 RECORDS.
   The Municipality shall have access to and the right to examine, during
normal business hours, Energy Provider’s books, receipts, files, records, and
documents as is reasonably necessary to verify the accuracy of payments due
hereunder; provided, that the Municipality shall not exercise such right more
than twice per calendar year. If it is determined that a mistake was made in
the payment of any franchise fee required hereunder, such mistake shall be
corrected promptly upon discovery such that any under-payment by an energy
provider shall be paid within 30 days of recalculation of the amount due, and
any over-payment by an energy provider shall be deducted from the next payment
of such franchise fee due by such energy provider to the Municipality;
provided, that neither party shall have the obligation to correct a mistake
that is discovered more than one year after the occurrence thereof.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.02 General Prohibition        120.06 Amusement Devices
120.03 Investigation              120.07 Outdoor Service
120.04 Action by Council          120.08 Small Open-Air Service and Consumption
 
120.01 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a retail alcohol
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale, possess,
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03 INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a retail alcohol license, the Clerk may
forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an investigation and
submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred in the
application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine if they
conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve an
application for a license for any premises that does not conform to the
applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a retail
alcohol license, shall endorse its approval or disapproval on the application,
and shall forward the application with the necessary fee and bond, if required,
to the Iowa Department of Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32(2))
120.05 PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
   A person holding a retail alcohol license and the person’s agents or
employees shall not do any of the following:
   1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(1))
   2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
6:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(b))
   3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona
fide credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its
members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to
retail sales by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or
events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(c))
   4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold, except as
follows:
      A.   Definitions. For use in this subsection the following terms are
defined as follows:
         (1)   “Bar” means an establishment where one may purchase alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2(1))
         (2)   “Restaurant” means eating establishments, including private and
public school cafeterias, which offer food to the public, guests, or employees,
including the kitchen and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere, and including a bar area within a restaurant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2(17))
      B.   This subsection shall not apply if the employer has, on file,
written permission from the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of a person 16
or 17 years of age for the person to sell or serve alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where sold. However, a person 16 or 17 years of age
shall not work in a bar as defined in Paragraph A.
         (1)   The employer shall keep a copy of the written permission on file
until the person is either 18 years of age or no longer engaged in the sale of
or serving alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
         (2)   If written permission is on file in accordance with Paragraph B,
a person 16 or 17 years of age may sell or serve alcoholic beverages in a
restaurant as defined above in Paragraph A during the hours in which the
restaurant serves food.
      C.   A person 16 or 17 years of age shall not sell or serve alcoholic
beverages under this subsection unless at least two employees 18 years of age
or older are physically present in the area where alcoholic beverages are sold
or served.
      D.   If a person employed under this subsection reports an incident of
workplace harassment to the employer or if the employer otherwise becomes aware
of such an incident, the employer shall report the incident to the employee’s
parent, guardian, or legal custodian and to the Iowa Civil Rights Commission,
which shall determine if any action is necessary or appropriate under Chapter
216 of the Code of Iowa.
      E.   An employer that employs a person under this subsection shall
require the person to attend training on prevention and response to sexual
harassment upon commencing employment.
      F.   Prior to a person commencing employment under this subsection, the
employer shall notify the employer’s dramshop liability insurer, in a form and
time period prescribed by the Director, that the employer is employing a person
under this subsection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(f))
   5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(i))
   6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(a))
   7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(j))
   8.   Keep on premises covered by a retail alcohol license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the State
Department of Revenue and except mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the
premises for immediate consumption. However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are
mixed on the premises and are not for immediate consumption may be consumed on
the licensed premises, subject to Section 123.49, Subsection 2, Paragraph D,
Subparagraphs (2), (3), and (4) of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(d)(2), (3), and (4))
   9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents, or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(e))
   10.   Allow any person other than the licensee or employees of the licensee
to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic liquor in any bottle or
other container that is designed for the transporting of such beverages, except
as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(g))
   11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(k))
   12.   Permit or allow any person under 21 years of age to remain upon
licensed premises unless over 50 percent of the dollar volume of the business
establishment comes from the sale and serving of prepared foods. This provision
does not apply to holders of a Class “B” retail alcohol license or an
establishment employee when employed in compliance with State law.
120.06 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement
devices possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa.
(Said devices are allowed only in premises with a retail alcohol license, as
specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
120.07 OUTDOOR SERVICE.
   Any licensee may serve the type of alcoholic liquor, beer, or wine permitted
by the license in an outdoor area only after complying with the following
conditions:
   1.   The outdoor area must be enclosed by a permanent or temporary retainer
which clearly encloses the outdoor area contiguous to the licensed
establishment with such requirements to be established by the Council, by
resolution, at such time as the licensee or permittee requests outdoor area
service, including any special events.
   2.   Emergency exits must be provided with a clean and unobstructed access
to a public way.
   3.   The outdoor service area must have adequate lighting to allow for the
easy identification of individuals within that area.
   4.   The licensee must provide adequate staff in order to have all entrances
and exits between the enclosed area and the public way staffed to prevent the
transfer of open beverage containers beyond the enclosed service area and to
prevent entrance to the service area by individuals which have not presented
valid identification and verification of being legal drinking age.
   5.   All alcoholic liquor, beer or wine shall be served in paper or plastic
containers; however, should the licensee maintain an outdoor service area in
compliance with this Code and such outdoor service area is used in the
licensee’s normal business operations on a continuous or seasonally continuous
basis, the limitation of using only paper or plastic containers shall not
apply.
   6.   Any outdoor service area which exceeds 1,200 square feet must have at
least two bathrooms or portable bathrooms provided within that outdoor service
area.
   7.   A diagram showing the outdoor area and describing how it will be
enclosed shall be submitted to the Clerk.
   8.   An endorsement from the insurance company acknowledging that the
outdoor area is covered by the dram shop insurance policy shall be submitted to
the Clerk.
   9.   An application from the licensee telling what dates the outdoor area
will be used shall be submitted to the Clerk.
After compliance with the above listed requirements, the Clerk shall forward
the appropriate information to the Council which may approve the outdoor
service area and authorize the Clerk to forward the information to the
Department of Revenue.
120.08 SMALL OPEN-AIR SERVICE AND CONSUMPTION.
   In areas not zoned residential or which otherwise do not prohibit the sale
of alcohol, a liquor licensed establishment may utilize an open-air area and
serve liquor for consumption provided that the maximum open-air area does not
exceed 400 square feet, and it meets the conditions set forth herein:
   1.   The open-air area shall securely attach to the licensed structure and
shall not protrude into the public right-of-way, and shall be constructed and
maintained so that it may only be entered and exited from the portion of the
premises which is not part of the open-air area and which is part of the
licensed establishment. The open-air area shall be enclosed by a wrought iron
or similar type of fence approved by the City and structurally sufficient, in
the sole discretion of the City, to prevent uncontrolled entrance or exit from
the licensed area. The fence shall not be less that 36 inches in height and
shall so be constructed and maintained to restrict access from below the top
height of the fence.
   2.   All exits from such area shall be for emergency use only and shall be
equipped with the appropriate hardware to ensure such limited use.
   3.   No open containers of alcohol or consumption of alcohol are permitted
in the open-air area between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday
through Thursday, or 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. Fridays and Saturdays. For
special occasions or events, the liquor licensee for the open-air area may seek
prior Council approval in the event the licensee desires to serve liquor or
operate the open-air area for hours longer than established herein.
   4.   Amplified music and sound will be permitted in the open area during the
hours that consumption is permitted but will be subject to
Chapter 53.
   5.   The outdoor service area must have adequate lighting to allow for the
easy identification of individuals within that area.
   6.   The licensee or permitted must provide adequate staff in order to have
all entrances and exits between the enclosed area and the public way staffed to
prevent the transfer of open beverage containers beyond the enclosed service
area. For special events as from time to time deemed by the Mayor or designee,
including the City’s annual homecoming celebration date and RAGBRAI, the liquor
licensee shall provide its own security personnel to maintain and enforce the
provisions of this chapter and this Code.
   7.   All alcoholic liquor, beer or wine shall be served in paper or plastic
containers; however, should the licensee maintain an outdoor service area in
compliance with the City’s ordinances and such outdoor service area is used in
the licensee’s normal business operations on a continuous or seasonally
continuous basis, the limitation of using only paper or plastic containers
shall not apply.
   8.   A diagram showing the outdoor area and describing how it will be
enclosed shall be submitted to the Clerk.
   9.   An endorsement from the insurance company acknowledging that the
outdoor area is covered by the dram shop insurance policy shall be submitted to
the Clerk.
   10.   If two violations of State law or this Code occur in the open-air area
within a 12-month period that result in the conviction of the owner liquor
licensee or their employees or agents, the use of the outdoor area as part of
the liquor license premises will cease for a period of 12 months, starting on
the date of the second conviction. The same penalty will occur if four
different incidents occur in the outdoor area within a 12-month period that
result in at least one conviction of persons other than the owner or their
employees or agents.
CHAPTER 121|
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions     121.07 Expiration
121.02 Permit Required 121.08 Refunds
121.03 Application     121.09 Persons Under Legal Age
121.04 City Approval   121.10 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.05 Fees            121.11 Permit Revocation
121.06 Issuance         
 
121.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Department” means the State Department of Revenue.
   4.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
   5.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for
sale for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   6.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   7.   “State permit” means and includes all permits issued by the department
under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa except the permits issued to retailers
approved by cities and counties pursuant to Section 453A.13 and 453.47A of the
Code of Iowa.
   8.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   9.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13(1))
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A(1))
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A(4))
121.03 APPLICATION.
   A retailer shall submit to the department an application on forms furnished
by the department, accompanied by the required fees and adequate bond as
provided in Section 453A.14, of the Code of Iowa. Applications, any supporting
documentation, and the associated fees shall be submitted electronically to the
department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13(5))
121.04 CITY APPROVAL.
   The City shall approve retail permit applications for applicants with a
place of business within the City limits. The City shall use the electronic
portal of the department to process retail permit applications. Upon approval
of a retail permit application by the City the department shall issue the
permit to the applicant on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13(2))
121.05 FEES.
   The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:    FEE:
July, August, or September     $75.00
October, November, or December $56.25
January, February, or March    $37.50
April, May, or June            $18.75
 
121.06 ISSUANCE.
   Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for which it
is issued and shall be nonassignable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13(9))
121.07 EXPIRATION.
All permits shall expire on June 30 of each year. A permit shall not be granted
or issued until the applicant has paid the fees to the department for the next
period ending on June 30.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13(3)(a))
121.08 REFUNDS.
   A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.09 PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
   The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a
copy of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application
for a permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and
the time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36(6))
121.10 SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
   Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36(6) of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.11 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by
the Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Iowa Department of Revenue within 30 days of the revocation or
suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
 
122.01 Purpose                      122.08 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions                  122.09 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required             122.10 Hearing
122.04 Application for License      122.11 Record and Determination
122.05 License and Application Fees 122.12 Effect of Revocation
122.06 Display of License           122.13 License Exemptions
122.07 License Not Transferable     122.14 Charitable and Nonprofit
                                    Organizations
 
122.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against
fraud, unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by
licensing and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
   2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions, or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
   3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out
of a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, or in the business of a
transient merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein
provided is in violation of this chapter.
122.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   1.   Filing. Application requests shall be filed with City Hall. No
application request shall be accepted for filing and processing unless it
conforms to the requirements of this chapter. This would include a complete and
true application, all of the required materials and information prescribed, and
is accompanied by the required fees.
   2.   Timely Submittal. Unless otherwise provided herein, applications must
be submitted not less than seven calendar days prior to the proposed start date
of any peddling, solicitation, or transient merchant sales or related
activities. The City reserves the right to reject any applications that have
not been timely submitted to the City.
   3.   Application Contents. Application shall be made on a form provided by
the City and shall include:
      A.   Full name of the applicant.
      B.   Applicant's contact information including mailing address, phone
numbers, and e-mail address.
      C.   Applicant's employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the business.
      D.   Make, model, and year of vehicle to be used and the license plate
number.
      E.   The length of time sought to be covered by the license.
      F.   Certificate of liability insurance or surety bond through the
Secretary of State.
   4.   Right to Appeal. Any applicant whose application for license was
disapproved may appeal to the Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting
by filing with the Clerk or the Clerk’s designee a written request for an
appeal to the Council at least seven days prior to the meeting. As a result of
this appeal, the Council may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision of the
Clerk not to issue the license. If the application for license is denied, the
applicant is not eligible for the issuance of a license under this chapter for
a period of one year from the date of notification that the license application
was disapproved, was served in-person, or deposited in U.S. mail.
   5.   Applications Deemed Withdrawn. Any application received shall be deemed
withdrawn if it has been held in abeyance, awaiting the submittal of additional
requested information from the applicant, and if the applicant has not
communicated in writing with the City and made reasonable progress within 30
days from the last notification from the City to the applicant. The application
fee is nonrefundable. Any application deemed withdrawn shall require submission
of a new application and fees to begin a new review and approval process.
   6.   Issuance of License. Upon completion of the review process and a
determination of compliance with the applicable regulations and all applicable
application and license fees have been paid, the Clerk or the Clerk’s designee
will issue the appropriate license.
122.05 LICENSE AND APPLICATION FEES.
   At the time of submission of a license application, the applicant shall pay
to the City the applicable application and license fees. The fee schedule will
be set by resolution and may be modified from time to time with approval by
resolution of the Council.
122.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
   122.07 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.08 TIME RESTRICTION.
   All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are
in force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and one-half hour
before sunset, but in no case later than 9:00 p.m.
122.09 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Police
Chief may revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following
reasons:
   1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in
the application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
   2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
   3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.
   The Police Chief shall send the written notice to the licensee at the
licensee’s local address. The notice shall contain particulars of the
complaints against the licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes
allegedly violated, and the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.10 HEARING.
The Police Chief shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Police Chief may proceed to a
determination of the complaint.
122.11 RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
   The Police Chief shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of
law, and shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the
Police Chief finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of
this chapter or State law.
122.12 EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
   Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.13 LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students. Students representing the Glenwood Community School District
conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
   5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
   7.   Minor Businesses. An on-site transactional business traditionally
operated exclusively by a person under the age of 18, operated on an occasional
basis for no more than 89 calendar days in a calendar year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3(15))
122.14 CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations
operating under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to
solicit money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of
Sections
122.04. All such organizations are required to submit to City Hall in writing
the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought, names,
and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any commissions,
fees, or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount thereof. If
the Police Chief finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or
nonprofit organization, the Police Chief shall issue, free of charge, a license
containing the above information to the applicant. In the event the Police
Chief denies the exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization
may appeal the decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.04.
CHAPTER 123
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
 
123.01 Definitions                       123.05 Property Owner or Lessee
                                         Responsibility
123.02 Mobile Food Unit License Required 123.06 License Fees
123.03 Mobile Food Unit Licensing        123.07 Compliance with the Law
Application
123.04 Mobile Food Vendor Locations      123.08 Suspension or Revocation of
                                         License
 
123.01 DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “Mobile food vendor” means a person engaged in the business of selling
food or beverages from a mobile food unit (self-contained motorized vehicle,
trailer, or pushcart).
   2.   “Pushcart” means a non-motorized vehicle with dimensions not exceeding
four feet in width and eight feet in length and eight feet in height and being
capable of being moved and kept under control by one person traveling on foot.
123.02 MOBILE FOOD UNIT LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the sale of food or
beverages from a mobile food unit without first obtaining a Mobile Food Unit
License. A Mobile Food Unit License issued by the Clerk or the Clerk’s designee
shall be subject to the following:
   1.   A Mobile Food Unit License is an annual license that expires on
December 31st each year.
   2.   Each mobile food unit shall be licensed separately. No license transfer
is allowed.
   3.   Each mobile food unit shall comply with State inspection requirements
and display its State license in full view of the public in or on the unit.
   4.   Each mobile food unit shall have a working fire suppression system.
123.03 MOBILE FOOD UNIT LICENSING APPLICATION.
   1.   Filing. Application requests shall be filed with City Hall. No
application request shall be accepted for filing and processing unless it
conforms to the requirements of this chapter. This would include a complete and
true application, all of the required materials and information prescribed, and
is accompanied by the required fees.
   2.   Timely Submittal. Unless otherwise provided herein, applications must
be submitted not less than seven calendar days prior to the proposed start date
of the mobile food unit activities. The City reserves the right to reject any
applications that have not been timely submitted to the City.
   3.   Application Contents. Application shall be made on a form provided by
the City and shall include:
      A.   Full name of the applicant.
      B.   Applicant’s contact information including mailing address, phone
numbers, and e-mail address.
      C.   Photographs of the mobile food unit from the front, side, and back.
      D.   Make, model, and year of vehicle to be used and the license plate
number (if required).
      E.   Overall size of the vehicle; to include length, width, and height.
   4.   Right to Appeal. Any applicant whose application for license was
disapproved may appeal to the Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting
by filing with the Clerk or the Clerk’s designee a written request for an
appeal to the Council at least seven days prior to the meeting. As a result of
this appeal, the Council may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision of the
Clerk not to issue the license. If the application for license is denied, the
applicant is not eligible for the issuance of a license under this chapter for
a period of one year from the date of notification that the license application
was disapproved, was served in-person, or deposited in U.S. mail.
   5.   Applications Deemed Withdrawn. Any application received shall be deemed
withdrawn if it has been held in abeyance, awaiting the submittal of additional
requested information from the applicant, and if the applicant has not
communicated in writing with the City and made reasonable progress within 30
days from the last notification from the City to the applicant. The application
fee is nonrefundable. Any application deemed withdrawn shall require submission
of a new application and fees to begin a new review and approval process.
   6.   Issuance of License. Upon completion of the review process and a
determination of compliance with the applicable regulations, the Clerk or the
Clerk’s designee will issue a mobile food unit license.
123.04 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR LOCATIONS.
   1.   Mobile Food Units On Public Property. A mobile food unit (non-pushcart)
may be parked on public property or street (on a non-residential side) as
approved in the licensing application or as part of a City-approved event under
a public property special event permit issued by the City. Mobile units also
are prohibited from parking within 100 feet of any facade or outdoor seating of
a ground level establishment that sells prepared food or beverages (this only
applies from one hour before the establishment’s opening to an hour after
closing) without approval from the food establishment owner.
   2.   Pushcarts are permitted to operate within City parks, walkway, or
greenways as well as private property (with property owner approval). However,
a minimum 48-inch open walkway must be maintained for passing pedestrians. The
placement of the pushcart shall be in such a manner so as to minimize
encroachment into the 48-inch walkway by patrons waiting in line for service
from the pushcart. Requests for authorization to vend within a City park or
greenway (not as part of a City permitted public property special event) may be
submitted no less than five days and no more than 15 days prior to the
requested day of vending. Pushcarts are prohibited from operating in the north
marina parking and access area and the south marina parking and access area.
   3.   No mobile food unit shall be left unattended or stored on any site
overnight, unless that property is under the ownership or control of (by way of
a lease or other contractual agreement) the operator of the unit and is being
done so in compliance with all other Code requirements or the mobile food unit
is a participant in a multiple (contiguous) day, City permitted, public
property special event. Any mobile food unit found unattended shall be
considered in violation of these regulations and subject to license revocation,
towing, or any other action legally allowed.
   4.   Music and Sound Making Devices. The use of music or sound making
devices as a part of a mobile food unit shall be prohibited, unless expressly
allowed as part of an approved event.
   5.   Mobile Food Unit Performance Standards. Persons conducting business
from a mobile food unit must do so in compliance with the following standards:
      A.   The mobile food vendor must obtain expressed written consent of the
property owner or lessee to use the property on which they propose to operate
or from the City if a pushcart on public property. The written consent must be
kept in the unit at all times that the unit is on the property. Written consent
does not excuse or permit the violation of any other imposable regulations.
      B.   The operator of the mobile food unit shall display their City
license in full view of the public in or on the unit.
      C.   Mobile food units that are within 300 feet of a residential use or
residentially zoned property shall be limited to hours of operation between 7:
00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      D.   Mobile food units shall serve patrons which are on foot only; no
drive-up service to the unit itself shall be provided or allowed.
      E.   The mobile food unit (non-pushcart) must be located on a paved or
rocked surface.
      F.   No mobile food unit may be located on a vacant property or lot with
a vacant building. Exceptions to this rule may be granted by the Clerk after a
review of the particular property and the vendor has been able to make
arrangements to ensure safe and sanitary conditions. This would include, but is
not limited to: employee access to restrooms, adequate access for fire and
police personnel or vehicles, and that the site in general is free from hazards
or dangerous conditions.
      G.   All mobile food units shall maintain a minimum separation from
buildings of 10 feet as measured to the closest building element including
awnings or canopies, tents, or membrane structures. Location of the food unit
shall not impede pedestrians entering or exiting a building.
      H.   The window or area where a patron orders and receives their purchase
shall be located so as to not require a patron to stand, or create a line that
may cause pedestrians to be in the public right-of-way, vehicle travel lane,
including parking lot drive aisles, or similar situation that may create a
potential safety hazard. Adequate safe space for patrons waiting for their
order must be available on the property where the mobile food unit is located.
      I.   Signs are limited to those that are attached to the exterior of the
mobile unit and must be mounted flat against the unit and not project more than
six inches from the exterior of the unit. No freestanding signs, banners,
flags, or similar items are allowed. Off-premises signs directing patrons to
the mobile food unit are prohibited.
      J.   During business hours, the mobile food vendor shall provide a trash
receptacle for use by customers and shall keep the area around the mobile food
unit clear of litter and debris at all times.
      K.   All mobile food units shall be located in such a manner as to not
create a safety hazard, such as blocking emergency access to buildings and the
site, obstructing access to fire hydrants, impeding entering and exiting from a
building, creating a visual impediment for the motoring public at drive
entrances, intersections, pedestrian crossings, or similar movement and access.
123.05 PROPERTY OWNER OR LESSEE RESPONSIBILITY.
   By allowing the mobile food unit on their property, the property owner or
lessee jointly and severally with the vendor are responsible for compliance
with this chapter and to ensure the safety of pedestrians and access of
emergency vehicles to and around the site. Failure to do so could result in the
property owner or lessee being party to any enforcement actions or penalties
allowed by law.
123.06 LICENSE FEES.
   At the time of the submittal of a license application, the applicant shall
pay to the City the applicable license fee in addition to any applicable
inspection fee(s). The fee schedule will be set by resolution and may be
modified from time to time with approval by resolution of the Council. Any
licensee who surrenders their license prior to the date of expiration shall not
be entitled to a refund of any portion of the fee.
123.07 COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW.
   Each mobile food unit vendor shall comply with all applicable federal,
State, and local laws, regulations, and rules.
123.08 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be suspended or
revoked by the City as follows:
   1.   Grounds. The City Administrator may suspend or revoke any license
issued under this chapter, for any of, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
      A.   The licensee has made fraudulent statements in their application for
the license or in the conduct of their business.
      B.   The licensee has violated this chapter or any other chapter of this
Code or has otherwise conducted their business in an unlawful manner.
      C.   The licensee has conducted their business in such manner as to
endanger the public welfare, safety, order, or morals.
      D.   The City Administrator has received and investigated three or more
found complaints during the licensed period related to the manner in which the
licensee is conducting business.
   2.   Notice of Suspension or Revocation; Right to Appeal. The City
Administrator shall cause notice of the license revocation to be served in
person by a City official or by mail to the licensee’s local address, which
notice shall specify the reason(s) for such action, at which time operations of
the licensee must cease within the corporate limits of the City. The licensee
may appeal the revocation of the license to the Council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting by filing with the City Administrator a written request for
an appeal to the Council at least seven days prior to the meeting. The Council
may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision of the City Administrator to revoke
such license. If a license is revoked, no refund of any license fee paid shall
be made. Upon the revocation of a license, the licensee is not eligible for the
issuance of a new license under this chapter for a period of one year from the
date the license revocation is served in person or deposited in the U.S. Mail.
CHAPTER 124
HOUSE MOVERS
 
124.01 House Mover Defined 124.07 Permit Issued
124.02 Permit Required     124.08 Public Safety
124.03 Application         124.09 Time Limit
124.04 Bond Required       124.10 Removal by City
124.05 Insurance Required  124.11 Protect Pavement
124.06 Permit Fee          124.12 Overhead Wires
 
124.01 HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the building or
structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks, dollies, or
any other specialized moving equipment.
124.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building,
or similar structure to be moved.
124.03 APPLICATION.
   Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the Clerk
on a form provided by the City. The application shall include:
   1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
   2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
   3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Police Chief, street
superintendent, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
124.04 BOND REQUIRED.
   The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
124.05 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that
the applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration
of the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
   1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
124.06 PERMIT FEE.
   A permit fee of $10.00 shall be payable at the time of filing the
application with the Clerk. A separate permit shall be required for each house,
building, or similar structure to be moved.
124.07 PERMIT ISSUED.
   Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate,
and payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
124.08 PUBLIC SAFETY.
   At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag
persons at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to
the sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when
the building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or
public property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights
at the intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of
the building or structure.
124.09 TIME LIMIT.
   No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to
remain upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours
without having first secured the written approval of the City.
124.10 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation
of Section
124.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
124.11 PROTECT PAVEMENT.
   It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
124.12 OVERHEAD WIRES.
   The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone,
cable television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.12 Dumping of Snow
135.04 Playing In                 135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.05 Traveling On Barricaded    135.14 Curb Cuts
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.15 Erection and Removal of Structures
                                  Within Public Right-of-Way
135.07 Washing Vehicles           135.16 Placement of Garbage or Solid Waste
                                  Containers in Public Right-of-Way
135.08 Burning Prohibited         135.17 Obstruction of Street or Any Portion
                                  Thereof
135.09 Excavations                 
 
135.01 REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
   It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy, or
carry away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard, or other
article or things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed
thereupon for the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places
in said street or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02 OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface, or injure any street or
alley in any manner, except obstructions may be utilized if in accord with
Section
135.17.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03 PLACING DEBRIS ON.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04 PLAYING IN.
   It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2))
135.05 TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
   It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street
or alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed
thereon by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer, or
member of the Fire Department.
135.06 USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
   It is unlawful to park, store, or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale, or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07 WASHING VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley
for the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning their own vehicle or equipment
when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible
material in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09 EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking,
or alley except in accordance with the following:
   1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first
obtaining a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with
the City and shall contain the following:
      A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
      B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is
to be made;
      C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
      D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
   2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner
that will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.
   3.   Barricades, Fencing, and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing, and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing, or warning lights shall be paid to
the City by the permit holder or property owner.
   4.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
      A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
      B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
   5.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder or property
owner.
   6.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City.
Backfill shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved
street or alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and
approved by the City. The permit holder or property owner shall provide the
City with notice at least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of
backfill is desired.
   7.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder or property owner.
   8.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
   9.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
   10.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application and filing of
insurance certificate, a permit shall be issued. A separate permit shall be
required for each excavation.
135.10 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards. 
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris.  The abutting property owner may be liable for damages
caused by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 8
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c))
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section
8 136.04 relating to property owner’s responsibility for maintenance of
  sidewalks.
135.11 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
   If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(e))
135.12 DUMPING OF SNOW.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be
thrown, pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the business district it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2))
135.13 DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
   The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
135.14 CURB CUTS.
   No person shall cut, break, or otherwise alter in any fashion any curb along
a public street. The cutting of any curb for any purpose shall be done by the
City at the expense of the property owner or person requesting such curb cut.
135.15 ERECTION AND REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   1.   It is unlawful to construct, erect, or locate any structure, as defined
in the City’s Zoning Ordinance, except mailboxes and retaining walls, beyond
the lot and property lines and upon any public street or right-of-way. A
retaining wall may only be constructed within the public right-of-way provided
it is located not less than four feet from the inside curb line of the street
abutting said property and only with the prior approval of the Public Works
Director.
   2.   Any structure, or part thereof, located within the public right-of-way,
including retaining walls and mailboxes, may be altered, destroyed, or removed
by the City for necessary or normal repair and maintenance within the public
right-of-way. In such instance, the City shall not be obligated to repair,
replace, or otherwise restore said structure to its prior condition and shall
not be responsible for any costs incurred in replacing or restoring such
structure to its prior condition.
135.16 PLACEMENT OF GARBAGE OR SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It is unlawful to maintain any container used for garbage/solid waste
disposal beyond the lot and property lines and upon any right-of-way for a
period of more than 24 continuous hours. Any such container(s) placed,
maintained, or located beyond the lot and property lines and upon any public
right-of-way for a period of more than 24 continuous hours shall be deemed a
public nuisance.
135.17 OBSTRUCTION OF STREET OR ANY PORTION THEREOF.
   Any person may make a written application with the City for the purpose of
barricading or otherwise blocking a street or a potion thereof to restrict
vehicular traffic. The application shall include the street or the portions
thereof to be barricaded, the date and the times the barricades are to be
erected and removed, and the reasons for the requested barricade. The Council
shall either approve or deny the application. If the application is approved,
the Council may impose any such conditions as it deems reasonable and
appropriate under the circumstances. If approved, the applicant shall remit a
fee for the use, erection, and the removal of the barricades by the City Public
Works Department or its designee. The fee shall be fixed by resolution of the
Council.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.11 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.02 Definitions                           136.12 Awnings
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.13 Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.14 Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.15 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.16 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                       136.17 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                    136.18 Merchandise Display
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights         136.19 Sales Stands
136.10 Failure to Repair or Barricade         
 
136.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
   2.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
   3.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete
is placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
   4.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
   5.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
   6.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
   7.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling, or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
   8.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing
the surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03 REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
   It is the responsibility of all abutting property owners to remove snow,
ice, and accumulations from sidewalks after a weather event. For all commercial
properties, the property owners shall remove the snow, ice, and accumulations
from the sidewalks within 24 hours of a weather event. For all other
properties, the abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and
accumulations from sidewalks within 48 hours of a weather event.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the following sections, if the
property owner does not remove the snow, ice or accumulation within the
specified time frame, the City may do so and assess the costs against the
property owner for collection in the same manner as real estate taxes. The cost
assessed shall be calculated at $2.00 a linear foot for each foot of the
sidewalk in which the snow, ice, or accumulations have been removed by the
City, with such costs not to exceed $150.00 per sidewalk. There shall also be
assessed to the property owner on administrative fee of $30.00. The abutting
property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove snow, ice,
and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(b) and (e))
136.04 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   It is the responsibility of the abutting property owners to maintain in a
safe, hazard-free condition and to the requirements of the City any sidewalk
outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines or traveled
portion of the public street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c))
136.05 CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
   If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(d) and (e))
136.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
   The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any
street or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such
improvement to abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 384 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such
person has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work. The requirements of the City may
include, but are not necessarily limited to, such matters as design appearance
of the sidewalk, the colors of the sidewalk, the concrete or other materials
utilized in the reconstruction or installation of the sidewalk, the dimensions
and thickness of the sidewalk and the location of the sidewalk.
136.08 SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
   Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
   1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the
construction and repair of sidewalks.
   2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
   3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-
drained soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact,
clean, coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage
is to be determined by the City.
   4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
   5.   Length, Width and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
      A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four
inches thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in length.
      B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to
the curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
      C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
   6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge
(edge nearest the abutting private property) on the property line, unless the
Council establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.
   7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
   8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
   9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the
curb.
   10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood
float finish.
   11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a
street, road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped
area shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street,
road, or highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built
or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed
at each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road.
Curb ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall
be constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.09 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue,
highway, passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when
any sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10 FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
   It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11 INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
   No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12 AWNINGS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any
sidewalk unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above
the surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.13 ENCROACHING STEPS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.14 OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
   It is unlawful for a person to:
   1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
   2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on
any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the
public.
   3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings
on or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.15 FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.16 DEFACING.
   It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing
on any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.17 DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2))
136.18 MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
   It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods
or merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with
the free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case
shall more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for
such purposes.
136.19 SALES STANDS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand
for the sale of fruit, vegetables, or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01 POWER TO VACATE.
   When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of
the City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(a))
137.02 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public
grounds shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for its study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council.
The Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03 NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
   The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the
time at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04 FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
   2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05 DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06 DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
   The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental
body for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15(2) and 364.7(3))
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
132           November 13, 1925                
136           November 13, 1925                
137           November 13, 1925                
172           November 13, 1925                
231           May 24, 1944                     
239           July 5, 1946                     
243           May 20, 1947                     
256           March 22, 1949                   
259           December 15, 1949                
274           January 13, 1954                 
296           May 13, 1958                     
303           April 7, 1959                    
304           April 7, 1959                    
317           November 14, 1960                
345           November 9, 1965                 
346           December 14, 1965                
348           September 13, 1966               
349           February 14, 1967                
358           December 19, 1968                
375           November 10, 1970                
388           May 8, 1973                      
396           October 22, 1974                 
406           July 22, 1975                    
446           July 8, 1980                     
447           July 22, 1980                    
448           August 12, 1980                  
485           July 10, 1984                    
565           November 8, 1994                 
591           December 12, 1995                
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Purpose and Definition 138.03 Record Maintained
138.02 Established Grades
 
138.01 PURPOSE AND DEFINITION.
   This chapter is designed to meet the requirements of the Code of Iowa for
the establishment of street grades. As used herein, “grade” means the
longitudinal reference lines, as established by ordinance of the Council, which
designate the elevation at which a street or sidewalk is to be built.
138.02 ESTABLISHED GRADES.
   The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.03 RECORD MAINTAINED.
   The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
122           November 13, 1925 223           September 1, 1941
125           November 13, 1925 232           Unknown
129           November 13, 1925 233           Unknown
133           November 13, 1925 235           Unknown
135           November 13, 1925 240           Unknown
138           November 13, 1925 241           Unknown
141           November 13, 1925 246           October 21, 1947
144           November 13, 1925 270           October 21, 1953
153           November 13, 1925 280           July 5, 1955
154           November 13, 1925 282           September 6, 1955
156           November 13, 1925 285           August 7, 1956
161           November 13, 1925 295           February 4, 1958
162           November 13, 1925 308           July 21, 1959
163           November 13, 1925 316           September 15, 1960
164           November 13, 1925 324           October 26, 1961
165           November 13, 1925 327           July 23, 1962
166           November 13, 1925 331           November 27, 1962
168           November 13, 1925 333           October 8, 1963
180           October 3, 1929   335           November 7, 1963
181           October 3, 1929   342           August 10, 1965
197           July 1, 1937      370           June 2, 1970
198           September 2, 1937 378           April 13, 1971
213           April 4, 1940     391           June 26, 1973
222           September 1, 1941 397           November 26, 1974
417           May 10, 1977                    
422           July 12, 1977                   
505           March 28, 1989                  
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                            
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names   
 
139.01 NAMING NEW STREETS.
   New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Ordinance. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by ordinance.
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred
to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02 CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
   The Council may, by ordinance, change the name of a street.
139.03 RECORDING STREET NAMES.
   Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor, and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04 OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
   Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Glenwood, Iowa.”
139.05 REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
   If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Council with an entry on
the Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the
City Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk. No amendment to this chapter which involves naming or changing the
name of a street shall become effective until after such change and entry have
been made on said map.
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing or changing street names and remain
in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing or changing street names and remain
in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
509           June 27, 1989                    
522           June 12, 1990                    
525           December 11, 1990                
658           September 12, 2000               
755           November 9. 2004                 
775           March 14, 2006                   
807           February 12, 2008                
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
                                             
 
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.04 Access Controls Imposed
140.02 Definition               140.05 Parking Restricted
140.03 Right of Access Limited   
 
140.01 EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
   This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City
under Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace,
health, and safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02 DEFINITION.
   The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03 RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.
   No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto
or across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
140.04 ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.
   There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities within
the City, described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3)
   1.   Project No. F-15. On the Primary Road System extension improvement,
Project No. F-15, Primary Road No. 275, within the City, described as follows:
   Along Sharp Street from Locust Street east 1,182 feet to a point
approximately 32 feet west of Chestnut Street.
   Along Locust Street from the South corporate line at a point approximately
83 feet east of the west line of Section 13, Township 72, Range 43,
Northeasterly and Northerly approximately 3,255 feet to Sharp Street.
   Along Locust Street from Sharp Street Northerly and Northwesterly
approximately 4,591 feet to the North corporate line, at a point approximately
530 feet west of and approximately 660 feet south of the northeast corner of
Section 11, Township 72, Range 43.
   From the intersection of Chestnut Street and Sharp Street (station 11 plus
82), thence East on Highway No. 275 to the east corporate line of the City
(station 20 plus 97), regulating access to and from abutting properties along
said highway all in accordance with the plans for such improvement identified
as Project No. F-15, on file in the office of the Clerk.
140.05 PARKING RESTRICTED.
   The parking of vehicles on or along controlled access facilities is
restricted as follows:
   1.   Minor Street Approaches. Parking shall be prohibited on all minor
street approaches for a distance of 35 feet in advance of the stop sign.
   2.   Minor Street Exits. Parking shall be prohibited on the exit side of a
minor street for a distance of 35 feet.
   3.   Diagonal Parking on Minor Street. Where diagonal parking is permitted,
on the minor street approach, parking shall be restricted so that a 55-foot
stop sign distance is maintained.
   4.   Intersection. Parking shall be prohibited on the Primary Road
Extensions a distance of 55 feet in advance of the near crosswalk and a
distance of 22 feet beyond the far crosswalk.
   5.   Parking of any nature is prohibited along or on Highway No. Business 34
from the intersection of Vine Street and Sharp Street east to the east
corporate City limits.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer                 145.05 Conduct of Hearing
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe        145.06 Posting of Signs
145.03 Unsafe Building                     145.07 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                           Infraction
145.04 Written Notice to Owner of Building 145.08 Costs
or Structure
 
145.01 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Either the Mayor or the Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for
the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02 GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
   All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided
with adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise
dangerous to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a
hazard to safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose
of this chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, or removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 and 364.12(3)(a))
145.03 UNSAFE BUILDING.
   “Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of
the following criteria:
   1.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, because of:
      A.   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
      B.   Faulty construction;
      C.   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
      D.   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
      E.   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
   2.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure,
or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is
being used.
   3.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is
likely to cause sickness or disease.
   4.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
   5.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04 WRITTEN NOTICE TO OWNER OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   The Enforcement Officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building
or structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such
is found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the Enforcement
Officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This written notice may require the owner, person,
or persons in charge of the building or structure, within 48 hours or such
reasonable time as the circumstances may require, to commence either the
required repairs or improvements or demolition and removal of the building or
structure or portions thereof. All such work shall be completed within 90 days
from date of the written notice, unless otherwise agreed to by the Enforcement
Officer. If necessary, such written notice shall also require the building,
structure, or portion thereof to be vacated immediately and not reoccupied
until the required repairs and improvements are completed and inspected and
approved by the Enforcement Officer.
   1.   Written Notice Served. The written notice shall be served upon the
record owner of the building or structure in one of the following manners:
      A.   By way of certified mail in accord with Section 354.123(3)(h) of the
Code of Iowa;
      B.   By registered mail;
      C.   By personal service; or
      D.   By publication in the Glenwood Opinion Tribune if the record owner
of the building or structure is unable to be located and upon the Enforcement
Officer or Mayor attesting in affidavit form that a diligent search for the
known address of the record owner of the building or structure was made, but to
no avail. In the event of service by publication, the code Enforcement Officer
or Mayor shall also cause the written notice to be posted upon the dangerous
building or structure.
   2.   Oral Hearing. All written notices shall also advise the owner that they
may request an oral hearing before the Council on the written notice by filing
a written request for oral hearing within the time provided in the written
notice.
145.05 CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the
date, time and place of hearing.
   2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
   3.   Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and
may issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 9
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
  Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
9 this Code. Caution is urged in the use of this procedure. We recommend you
  review the situation with your attorney before initiating procedures and follow
  their recommendation carefully.
145.06 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. CITY OF GLENWOOD,
IOWA.” Such notice shall remain posted until the required demolition, removal
or repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written
permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the building
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the
building.
145.07 RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
145.08 COSTS.
   Costs incurred under Section
145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury. Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes.
In addition, the City may take any other action deemed appropriate to recover
costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
CHAPTER 146
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
 
146.01 Definitions                 146.03 Foundation Requirements
146.02 Conversion to Real Property  
 
146.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)
   1.   “Land-leased community” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land
under common ownership upon which 10 or more occupied manufactured homes are
harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any
building, structure, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the land-leased community. The term land-leased community shall
not be construed to include homes, buildings, or other structures temporarily
maintained by an individual, educational institution, or company on their own
premises and used exclusively to house their own labor or students.
(Code of Iowa, Sec., 335.30A(2))
   2.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under
authority of 42 U.S.C. §5403 that is required by federal law to display a seal
from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and was
constructed on or after June 15, 1976.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1(3))
   3.   “Manufactured home community” means the same as land-leased community
in Section 146.01(1). The term manufactured home community shall not be
construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution,
or company on their own premises and used exclusively to house their own labor
or students.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1(4))
   4.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but shall also include any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in the State. A mobile home is not built to a
mandatory building code, contains no State or federal seals, and was built
before June 15, 1976.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1(5))
   5.   “Mobile home park” means a site, lot, field, or tract of land upon
which three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any
of these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operate as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer, or septic, and electrical services available. The
term mobile home park shall not be construed to include manufactured or mobile
homes, buildings, tents, or other structures temporarily maintained by any
individual, educational institution, or company on their own premises and used
exclusively to house their own labor or students.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1(6))
The term “manufactured home community” or “mobile home park” is not to be
construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution,
or company on its own premises and used exclusively to house said entity’s own
labor or students. The manufactured home community or mobile home park shall
meet the requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
146.02 CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.
   A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured
home community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being
placed on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes
except in the following cases:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26)
   1.   Retailer’s Stock. Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private
property as part of a retailer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place
for human habitation.
   2.   Existing Homes. A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is
located outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of
January 1, 1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt from
the permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is
relocated.
146.03 FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code. The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems
of surrounding residential structures. Any such home shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 and 414.28)
[The next page is 1189]
CHAPTER 147
FIRE LIMITS
 
147.01 Fire Limits Established 147.03 Walls and Roofs
147.02 Flammable Substances
 
147.01 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   No wooden buildings or wooden additions to any buildings shall be erected,
constructed, or moved in the portion of the City bounded as follows:
   Commencing at the northwest corner of Lot 4, in Block 5, running thence east
to the northeast corner of Lot 9, in Block 61, thence south to the southeast
corner of Lot 6, in Block 32, thence west to the southwest corner of Lot 3, in
Block 20, and thence north to the place of beginning.
   Provided, the Council may, in its discretion, upon a petition of the
majority of the property owners of the part of the block or blocks where the
erection or removal is to be made, allow any petitioner to erect or move in any
wooden building for temporary purposes for a period of time not exceeding six
months from the date of such permission.
147.02 FLAMMABLE SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall have or deposit any hay stack, straw stack, grain stack,
pile of rubbish, or other flammable substance within the fire limits. No person
shall have or deposit any cord wood, fire wood, fence posts, or lumber within
the fire limits without written permission from the Fire Chief and the Mayor,
specifying the maximum amount of such cord wood, fire wood, posts, rails, or
lumber that may be kept, stored, or deposited on any lot or part of lot within
said fire limits unless the same be within one of the buildings allowed by this
chapter to be built therein. No person shall build or allow any fires, whether
trash fire or otherwise within the fire limits as described in this chapter.
147.03 WALLS AND ROOFS.
   The wall of any brick or stone building or addition thereto erected within
said fire limits shall not be less than eight inches in thickness and any such
building shall be provided with fire walls above the roof of such dimensions as
the Council may deem expedient in any case, but if no action relative thereto
is taken by the Council, such fire walls shall be at least eight inches thick
and at least 12 inches above the roof at every point.
CHAPTER 148
ALARM SYSTEMS
 
148.01 Definitions  148.04 Prohibition and Terms
148.02 Registration 148.05 Revocation of Registration
148.03 Duties       148.06 Penalty
 
148.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Alarm answering service or remote monitoring point” means a business
providing the function of receiving on a continuous basis, through trained
employees, emergency signals from alarm systems, and thereafter relaying a
message by line voice to the Mills County Communications Center (911) or the
Police or Fire Departments.
   2.   “Alarm system” means and includes any device used to detect or prevent
intrusion, criminal activity, fire, or other such emergency situations which,
when activated, causes notification to be made directly or indirectly to the
County Communications Center or the Police or Fire Departments, or any device
or system designed primarily for the purpose of giving an audible or visual
signal for an attempted intrusion, criminal activity, fire or other such
emergency. An alarm system shall not include an alarm installed on a motor
vehicle.
   3.   “Alarm user” means the person, firm, corporation, or entity of any kind
in control of any building, structure or facility who purchases, leases,
contracts for, or otherwise obtains an alarm system.
   4.   “Annunciator” means that part of an alarm system which communicates the
fact that the system has been triggered or activated.
   5.   “Audible annunciator” or “visual annunciator” means an annunciator
which gives alarm by means of a bell, siren, buzzer, flashing light, or similar
sound or light-producing device when activated, which is mounted at some
location which is clearly visible when observed, or clearly audible at a
distance of 50 feet or more outside of any building in which it is mounted.
Annunciators can communicate directly with the County Communications Center or
indirectly through the use of an alarm answering service or remote monitoring
point.
   6.   “False alarm” means and includes any signal, directly or indirectly
originating from an alarm system, eliciting an urgent response by police or
rescue personnel when a situation requiring an urgent response does not, in
fact, exist. The term does not include an alarm signal caused by violent
conditions of nature or other extraordinary circumstances not reasonably
subject to control by the alarm user. The burden of proving that such alarm was
not a false alarm shall be on the alarm user.
   7.   “Local alarm system” means and includes an alarm system which, when
activated, causes an audible and/or visual signaling device to be activated and
is intended to be seen and/or heard by others outside of the protected
premises.
148.02 REGISTRATION.
Effective from July 1, 2002, and after, it shall be unlawful for any alarm user
to use or operate any alarm system without a current valid registration
therefore. Any person, firm, or corporation installing an alarm system after
July 1, 2002, shall have 30 days from the date of installation to obtain a
registration therefor.
   1.   Application. The application for an alarm system registration shall
list:
      A.   The registrant’s name, Glenwood address, telephone number, date of
birth and social security number;
      B.   The protected property’s address, any business name by which the
premises may be known as, including the name of the complex or center where it
is located, the type of premises it is, and the telephone number(s) for the
protected property;
      C.   Type of alarm(s) or signal(s) being communicated by file annunciator
and the type of activity indicated by the alarm(s) system(s);
      D.   The name, date of birth, social security number, home and business
address and telephone number of the owner(s), lessee(s) and occupant(s) of the
protected premises;
      E.   The name, date of birth, social security number, home and business
address and telephone number of three natural contact persons, or an alarm
answering service, having ready access to the protected premises and who may be
called upon to assist in the event the alarm is activated.
   2.   Issuance, Expiration, Renewal, and Termination.
      A.   Upon receipt of the registration application, the Mayor, if it is
determined that the proposed system will comply with the provisions of this
chapter, may issue a registration to the applicant. The registration will bear
the applicant’s identifying number and expiration date in addition to the terms
and conditions which must be complied with to keep the registration in full
force and effect.
      B.   The registration shall expire 24 months after the date of its
issuance, and may be renewed in the same manner as original registrations are
obtained.
      C.   Renewal registrations will be dated on the date of issuance. The
renewal application shall contain the applicant’s signed statement that there
have been no changes in any of the information furnished on the previous
application.
      D.   An alarm system registration shall automatically terminate upon any
change of alarm user or protected premises. No registration is transferable to
new premises or new user. No refunds will be given on termination of any
registration for any reason.
   3.   Fee. The original and renewal applications shall be accompanied with a
$25.00 fee, payable to the City. A late charge as set out in the prevailing
schedule of fees will be assessed on all registration holders who do not file
the renewal application prior to the expiration date of their existing
registrations.
148.03 DUTIES.
   All registration holders shall:
   1.   Within 10 days following any change of circumstances or any change of
information contained within the application, file an amendment to their
application setting forth the currently accurate information. No additional fee
shall be required unless the change has terminated the registration;
   2.   Cause to be trained and retrained all employees, family members and
other persons who make regular use of the protected premises and who may, in
the normal course of their activities, be in a position to accidentally trigger
an alarm. Such training shall include procedures and practices to avoid
accidental alarms, and steps to follow in the event the system is accidentally
triggered;
   3.   At all times be responsible for the proper maintenance and repair of
the system and for the repair or replacement of any component, method of
installation, design feature or like condition which may give rise to a false
alarm;
   4.   Set or program each alarm system so that each audible annunciator will
automatically silence within 15 minutes after being activated and will not
sound again unless a new act or circumstance triggers it. Annunciators
associated with fire alarms shall not be required to shut off automatically,
nor shall water-flow alarms with local annunciators only be regulated by this
chapter;
   5.   At all times abide by and comply with the rules and regulations for the
operation of an alarm system established by the Mayor pursuant to this section
and incorporated into the grant of the alarm system registration by this
reference.
148.04 PROHIBITION AND TERMS.
   1.   No alarm system shall be installed, used, including the occurrence of
false alarms as defined in this chapter, or maintained in violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter.
   2.   No test of an alarm system incorporating a local audible annunciator
shall be conducted between the hours of 10:00 p.m. of any day and 7:00 a.m. of
the following day. No test of any alarm system shall be conducted contrary to
the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this code, nor contrary to
applicable State law.
   3.   At any time prior to or following the issuance of any registration, the
Mayor may conduct such investigation as determined necessary to verify that the
information furnished by the applicant is accurate, and that the alarm system
is in conformance to this chapter as well as all other applicable provisions of
the law.
148.05 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   The Mayor may, upon the recommendation of the County Communications
Director, the Police Chief, or the City’s legal department, revoke any
outstanding registration and prohibit any further use of the alarm system in
question until such time that the Mayor determines that the alarm system in
question is operational and functional under the provisions of this chapter.
148.06 PENALTY.
   Any alarm user, registration holder, or applicant who violates any provision
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a municipal infraction and may be
fined the sum of $50.00 for a first offense violation, the sum of $75.00 for a
second offense violation, and the sum of $100.00 for a third and subsequent
offenses per calendar year.
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements
 
150.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
   2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02 OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
   Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
   1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to
the principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(d))
   2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than two and one-half inches in height
and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(d))
   3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(3)(h))
150.03 BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
   Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
 
151.01 Definition            151.04 Trimming Trees To Be Supervised
151.02 Planting Restrictions 151.05 Disease Control
151.03 Duty To Trim Trees    151.06 Inspection and Removal
 
151.01 DEFINITION.
   For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or
highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic.
151.02 PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
   No tree shall be planted in any parking or street except in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Alignment. All trees planted in any street shall be planted in the
parking midway between the outer line of the sidewalk and the curb. In the
event a curb line is not established, trees shall be planted on a line 10 feet
from the property line.
   2.   Spacing. Trees shall not be planted on any parking that is less than
nine feet in width, or contains less than 81 square feet of exposed soil
surface per tree. Trees shall not be planted closer than 20 feet from street
intersections (property lines extended) and 10 feet from driveways. If it is at
all possible, trees should be planted inside the property lines and not between
the sidewalk and the curb.
   3.   Prohibited Trees. No person shall plant in any street any fruit-bearing
tree or any tree of the kinds commonly known as cottonwood, poplar, box elder,
Chinese elm, evergreen, willow, or black walnut.
151.03 DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
   The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks. If the
abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on
the abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five
days. If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c)and (e))
151.04 TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
   Except as allowed in Section
151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a street or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
151.05 DISEASE CONTROL.
   Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect
or disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
151.06 INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
   The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in
the City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased, or damaged, and such trees
and shrubs shall be subject to the following:
   1.   City Property. If it is determined that any such condition exists on
any public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal. The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon. In no case shall the property owner be required to remove
diseased trees or dead wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way.
   2.   Private Property. If it is determined with reasonable certainty that
any such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or
to adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the
Council shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant, or person in charge
of such property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14
days of said notification. If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council may
cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c), (3)(b), and (3)(h))
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
 
160.01 Definitions                       160.07 Floodway Fringe (Overlay)
                                         District (FF)
160.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of  160.08 General Floodplain (Overlay)
Fact, and Purpose                        District (GF)
160.03 General Provisions                160.09 Appointment and Duties of Board
                                         of Appeals
160.04 Administration                    160.10 Nonconforming Uses
160.05 Establishment of Zoning (Overlay) 160.11 Penalties for Violation
Districts
160.06 Floodway (Overlay) District (FW)  160.12 Amendments
 
160.01   DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one (1) percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. (Also commonly referred to as the “100-
year flood.”)
   3.   “Base Flood Elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
   5.   “Board of Appeals” means the Board of Adjustment of the City.
   6.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including (but not limited to) buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage
of equipment or materials. Development does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
   7.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
      A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of Section 160.07(2)(D)(1); and
      B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage; and
      C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one (1)
foot above the Base Flood Elevation; and
      D.   The enclosed area is not a basement as defined in this section.
   8.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   9.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   10.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   11.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also include
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   12.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
   13.   “Five hundred (500) year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which
has a two-tenths (0.2) percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year or which, on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every five
hundred (500) years.
   14.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   15.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   16.   “Flood Insurance Study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map(s). The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   17.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   18.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including (but not limited to) emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing and floodplain management regulations.
   19.   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   20.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one (1) foot.
   21.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the Special Flood Hazard
Area outside the floodway.
   22.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   23.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register.
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior.
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either:
         (1)   An approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
         (2)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   24.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition
of Enclosed Area Below Lowest Floor are met.
   25.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; emergency
response facilities, power installations needed in emergency or other buildings
or building complexes similar in nature or use.
   26.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   27.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means
those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community.
   28.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by
the community.
   29.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis;
      B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   30.   “Repetitive loss” means a structure covered by an NFIP flood insurance
policy that has incurred flood-related damages on two occasions during a 10-
year period on the date of the event for which a second claim is made, in which
the cost of repairing the flood damage, on average, equaled or exceed 25% of
the market value of the structure at the time of each such flood event.
   31.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles, and replacing siding.
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops, and similar finish work.
      C.   Basement sealing.
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating, or air
conditioning systems, and repairing wells or septic systems.
   32.   “Special Flood Hazard Area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.
   33.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   34.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including (but not limited to) buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities,
and/or other similar uses.
   35.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed fifty (50) percent of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials
shall be included in the estimated cost of repair.
   36.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the market value of the
structure either:
         (1)   Before the start of construction of the improvement; or
         (2)   If the structure has been substantially damaged and is being
restored, before the damage occurred.
      The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of State or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of a historic
structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a historic structure.
      B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be
added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in
original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   37.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   38.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
160.02   STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
   1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in Chapter 414 of the Code of
Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning regulations to
secure safety from flood and to promote health and the general welfare.
   2.   Findings of Fact.
      A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the community.
      B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by:
         (1)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood
damages which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately
elevated or otherwise protected from flooding; and
         (2)   The cumulative effect of obstructions on the floodplain causing
increases in flood heights and velocities.
      C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
   3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Section
160.02(2)(A) with provisions designed to:
      A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows
so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      E.   Ensure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City shown on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map as being within the boundaries of the Floodway, Floodway
Fringe, General Floodplain, and Shallow Flooding (Overlay) Districts, as
established in Section 160.05.
   2.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRM) for Mills County and Incorporated Areas, City of Glenwood,
Panel(s) 19129C0167D, 19129C0186D, 19129C0187D, 19129C0190D, dated April 17,
2020, which were prepared as part of the Flood Insurance Study for Mills County
is (are) hereby adopted by reference and declared to be the Official Floodplain
Zoning Map. The flood profiles and all explanatory material contained with the
Flood Insurance Study are also declared to be a part of this chapter.
   3.   Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries. The boundaries of the
zoning district areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map. When an interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of a boundary, the Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   4.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered,
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   5.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   6.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   7.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City, or any officer or employee thereof, for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
   8.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04   ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Appointment, Duties, and Responsibilities of Administrator.
      A.   The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby appointed to implement and
administer the provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the
Administrator.
      B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include (but
not necessarily be limited to) the following:
         (1)   Review all Floodplain Development Permit Applications to ensure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
         (2)   Review Floodplain Development Applications to ensure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
         (3)   Record and maintain a record of:
            a.   The elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum
1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures; or
            b.   The elevation to which new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed.
         (4)   Notify adjacent communities, counties, and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
         (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
chapter.
         (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
         (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
         (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Board of Appeals of
potential conflict.
         (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Maps when:
            a.   Development placed within the Floodway (Overlay) District
results in any of the following:
               i.   An increase in the Base Flood Elevations; or
               ii.   Alteration to the floodway boundary.
            b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one (1) foot
in the base elevation; or
            c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
         Within six (6) months of the completion of the development, the
applicant shall submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for
a Letter of Map Revision.
         (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the
standards of this chapter.
         (11)   Forward all requests for Variances to the Board of Appeals for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Appeals
   2.   Floodplain Development Permit.
      A.   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any manmade
change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
materials or equipment, excavation, or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
      B.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished
by the Administrator and shall include the following:
         (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
         (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(i.e., lot, block, track, street address, or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
         (3)   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
         (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work
is intended.
         (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
         (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of
the lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which a
structure is to be floodproofed.
         (7)   For structures being improved or rebuilt, a detailed cost
estimate of proposed improvements and the market value of the structure prior
to the improvements. The detailed cost estimate shall include the true cost of
both labor and materials.
         (8)   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
      C.   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefore. The Administrator shall not
issue permits for Variances except as directed by the Board of Appeals
      D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at Variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State, that the finished fill, structure
floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the
use or occupancy of any structure.
160.05   ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING (OVERLAY) DISTRICTS.
   The floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are hereby
divided into the following districts:
   1.   Floodway (Overlay) District (FW) – those areas identified as Floodway
on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
   2.   Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District (FF) – those areas identified as
Zone AE on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map but excluding those areas
identified as Floodway.
   3.   General Floodplain (Overlay) District (GF) – those areas identified as
Zone A on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
   4.   Shallow Flooding (Overlay) District (SF) – those areas identified as
Zone AO or AH on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
   The boundaries shall be as shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
Within these districts, all uses not allowed as permitted uses are prohibited
unless a Variance to the terms of this chapter is granted after due
consideration by the Board of Appeals.
160.06   FLOODWAY (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FW).
   1.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Floodway (Overlay) District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable
performance standards of the Floodway (Overlay) District.
   2.   Performance Standards. All Floodway (Overlay) District uses allowed as
a permitted use shall meet the following standards.
      A.   No development shall be permitted in the Floodway (Overlay) District
that would result in any increase in the Base Flood Elevation. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      B.   All development within the Floodway (Overlay) District shall:
         (1)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
         (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      C.   No development shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the
channel or floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch, or any
other drainage facility or system.
      D.   Structures, buildings, recreational vehicles, and sanitary and
utility systems, if permitted, shall meet the applicable performance standards
of the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District, and shall be constructed or aligned
to present the minimum possible resistance to flood flows.
      E.   Structures, if permitted, shall have a low flood damage potential
and shall not be for human habitation.
      F.   Storage of materials or equipment that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited. Storage
of other material may be allowed if readily removable from the Floodway
(Overlay) District within the time available after flood warning.
      G.   Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel changes and
modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within
the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations
must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
      H.   Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to have some
beneficial purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount necessary.
      I.   Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed
and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to channel
degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.
160.07   FLOODWAY FRINGE (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FF).
   1.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Floodway Fringe (Overlay)
District shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any
other ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet
applicable performance standards of the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District.
   2.   Performance Standards. All development must be consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no development may
increase the Base Flood Elevation more than one (1) foot. The applicant will be
responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient
technical information to make such determination.
      A.   All Development. All development shall:
         (1)   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement.
         (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      B.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the Base Flood Elevation. Construction
shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one
(1) foot above the Base Flood Elevation and extend at such elevation at least
eighteen (18) feet beyond the limits of any structure erected thereon.
Alternate methods of elevating (such as piers or extended foundations) may be
allowed where existing topography, street grades, or other factors preclude
elevating by fill. In such cases, the methods used must be adequate to support
the structure as well as withstand the various forces and hazards associated
with flooding. All new residential structures located in areas that would
become isolated due to flooding of surrounding ground shall be provided with a
means of access that will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the base
flood.
      C.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the Base Flood Elevation, or together
with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level.
When floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State
shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to withstand the
flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact, and uplift forces and other
factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the Base
Flood Elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
      D.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
         (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
            b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1)
foot above grade.
            c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
         Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, and low damage potential storage.
         (2)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
         (3)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating,
air conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or, in the case of nonresidential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the Base Flood
Elevation.
         (4)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with plumbing, gas lines, water meters, gas meters, and other similar service
utilities either elevated (or in the case of nonresidential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the Base Flood
Elevation or designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a
level.
      E.   Factory-Built Homes.
         (1)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes,
including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions,
shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
structure is a minimum of one (1) foot above the Base Flood Elevation.
         (2)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes,
including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions,
shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage
systems may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties
to ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
      F.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
         (1)   On-site wastewater disposal and water supply systems shall be
located or designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the
system during flooding.
         (2)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system
as well as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment
facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood
protection equal to or greater than one (1) foot above the Base Flood
Elevation.
         (3)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one (1) foot above the Base
Flood Elevation.
         (4)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
      G.   Storage of Materials and Equipment. Storage of materials and
equipment that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the
Base Flood Elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly
elevated or:
         (1)   Not be subject to major flood damage and anchored to prevent
movement due to flood waters; or
         (2)   Be readily removable from the area within the time available
after flood warning.
      H.   Flood Control Structural Works. Flood control structural works such
as levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the
base flood with a minimum of three (3) feet of design freeboard and shall
provide for adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural
Resources shall approve structural flood control works.
      I.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must
be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources must
approve such alterations or relocations.
      J.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five (5) acres or fifty
(50) lots (whichever is less) shall include Base Flood Elevation data for those
areas located within the Floodplain Fringe (Overlay) District.
      K.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
         (1)   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are
incidental to a residential use are exempt from the Base Flood Elevation
requirements where the following criteria are satisfied:
            a.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed six hundred (600) square feet in size.
Those portions of the structure located less than one (1) foot above the Base
Flood Elevation must be constructed of flood-resistant materials.
            b.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
            c.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
            d.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement which may result in damage to other structures.
            e.   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one (1) foot
above the Base Flood Elevation.
            f.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Section
160.07(2)(D)(1).
         (2)   Exemption from the Base Flood Elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
      L.   Recreational Vehicles and Campgrounds.
         (1)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of
Section
160.07(2)(E) regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes when the
following criteria are satisfied.
            a.   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days, and
            b.   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
         (2)   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must
satisfy requirements of Section
160.07(2)(E) regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes.
         (3)   Any campground with overnight lodging shall have an evacuation
plan that includes the following:
            a.   Responsible parties for carrying out the evacuation plan.
            b.   Action stages that are based on stream levels, gage data, or
weather forecasts, as appropriate.
            c.   A detailed list of actions that need to be taken to ensure all
vehicles and campers are evacuated, including how notifications are to be
delivered.
      M.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline crossings rivers and streams shall be
buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to
prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
      N.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially
improved maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the elevation of
the five hundred (500)-year flood, or together with attendant utility and
sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is
utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State shall certify that
the floodproofing methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths,
pressures, velocities, impact, and uplift forces and other factors associated
with the two-tenths (0.2) percent annual chance flood; and that the structure,
below the two-tenths (0.2) percent annual chance flood elevation is watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water. A record of the
certification indicating the specific elevation (in relation to North American
Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are floodproofed shall be
maintained by the Administrator. Where a two-tenths (0.2) percent chance flood
elevation data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources
with sufficient technical information to make such determinations.
160.08   GENERAL FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (GF).
   1.   Permitted Uses.
      A.   All development within the General Floodplain (Overlay) District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet the applicable
performance standards of the General Floodplain (Overlay) District.
      B.   Any development which involves placement of structures, factory-
built homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or equipment,
excavation or alteration of a watercourse shall be reviewed by the Department
of Natural Resources to determine:
         (1)   Whether the land involved is either wholly or partly within the
floodway or floodway fringe; and
         (2)   The Base Flood Elevation.
      The applicant shall be responsible for providing the Department of
Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make the
determination.
   2.   Performance Standards.
      A.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the floodway
as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the applicable
provisions and standards of the Floodway (Overlay) District, Section
160.06.
      B.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the floodway
fringe as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the
applicable provisions and standards of the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District
(Section
160.07).
160.09   APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
   1.   Appointment and Duties of Board of Appeals. A Board of Appeals is
hereby established which, hereinafter referred to as the Board, shall hear and
decide:
      A.   Appeals; and
      B.   Requests for Variances to the provisions of this chapter and shall
take any other action which is required of the Board.
   2.   Appeals. Where it is alleged that there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of this chapter, the aggrieved party may appeal such action.
The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board and with the official from
whom the appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason for the
appeal. The official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to the Board
all the documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed from
was taken.
   3.   Variance. The Board may authorize upon request in specific cases such
Variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      A.   Variances shall only be granted upon:
         (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (2)   A determination that failure to grant the Variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (3)   A determination that the granting of the Variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local codes or ordinances.
      B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
Variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      D.   In cases where the Variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that:
         (1)   The issuance of a Variance will result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as twenty-five dollars ($25.00)
for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage; and
         (2)   Such construction increases risks to life and property.
      E.   All Variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   4.   Hearings and Decisions of the Board.
      A.   Hearings. Upon the filing with the Board of an Appeal or a request
for a Variance, the Board shall hold a public hearing. The Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing and give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to parties in interest. At the hearing, any party may appear in person
or by agent or attorney and present written or oral evidence. The Board may
require the appellant or applicant to provide such information as is reasonably
deemed necessary and may request the technical assistance and/or evaluation of
a professional engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources.
      B.   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on an Appeal or
Variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an Appeal, the Board may, so
long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall make its decision, in
writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for its decision.
In granting a variance, the Board shall consider such factors as contained in
this section and all other relevant sections of this chapter and may prescribe
such conditions as contained in Section
160.10(4)(B)(2).
         (1)   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Board Shall Be Based. In
passing upon applications for Variances, the Board shall consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
            a.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments.
            b.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
            c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary
conditions.
            d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
            e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the City.
            f.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
            g.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use.
            h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
            i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area.
            j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
            k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site.
            l.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer,
gas, electrical, and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
            m.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
         (2)   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the
factors listed above, the Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
Variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
            a.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
            b.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
            c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
            d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
            e.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the
flood protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated
with the regulatory flood. The Board shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
   5.   Appeals to the Court. Any person or persons, jointly or severally,
aggrieved by any decision of the Board may present to a court of record a
petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within thirty (30) days after the filing of the decision
in the office of the Board.
160.10   NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
      A.   If such use is discontinued for six (6) consecutive months, any
future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
      C.   If any nonconforming use or structure is damaged by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost equals or exceeds
fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred, unless it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter. This limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply
with existing State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or
regulations, or the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the
National Register of Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not
preclude its continued designation.
   2.   Except as provided in Section
160.11(1)(B), any use which has been permitted as a Variance shall be
considered a conforming use.
160.11   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of the requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of Variances) shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not more than thirty (30) days.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
Nothing herein contained prevent the City from taking such other lawful action
as is necessary to prevent or remedy violation.
160.12   AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to
time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
EDITOR’S NOTE
The “Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance for the City of Glenwood, Iowa,”
adopted August 14 2001, by Ordinance No. 675, and amendments thereto,
contained in a separate volume, are a part of this Code of Ordinances and
are in full force and effect. The following ordinances have been adopted
amending the Official Zoning Map of the City and have not been codified
herein, but are specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and
effect.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED ORDINANCE ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The “Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance for the City of Glenwood, Iowa,”
adopted August 14 2001, by Ordinance No. 675, and amendments thereto,
contained in a separate volume, are a part of this Code of Ordinances and
are in full force and effect. The following ordinances have been adopted
amending the Official Zoning Map of the City and have not been codified
herein, but are specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and
effect.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED            ORDINANCE ADOPTED
692       May 14, 2002                 
705       September 10, 2002           
724       April 22, 2003               
783       August 22, 2006              
788       October 24, 2006             
809       February 26, 2008            
894       December 3, 2019             
899       May 12, 2020                 
901       July 14, 2020                
914       February 8, 2022             
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
                                     
 
 
